CHRONIC SPLENOMEGALIC POLYCYTHEMIA. 479 -while in the hospital. The most severe symptoms were headache and indefinite abdominal pains. She occasionally complained of palpitation and feeling " out of sorts." While in the medical ward she had one slight convulsion with rather severe epistaxis. Three months after leaving the hospital she wrote saying that she had become quite weak and averaged about two fainting spells a week. The attacks were preceded by an aura in which the eyelids and the skin over the forehead twitched. Usually, consciousness was lost. Sometimes, however, she was aware of her surroundings, but was unable to speak. The attacks were followed by severe headaches. She suffered from attacks of numbness in the left leg. She said that she was growing pro- gressively weaker-and more cyanosed. Treatment.—Potassium iodide was given, in ten grain doses, without any good effects. Oxygen inhalations did not clear up the cyanosis. The nervousness was controlled with mixed bromides. High colonic irrigations of normal saline solution were given daily for ten days, with very little if any benefit. She felt better after the withdrawal of seven and one half ounces of venous blood, but this procedure was discontinued because of her weakened condition. A nonproteid diet was given with the view of limiting the formation of new blood cells. The disease does not seem to be influenced by drugs. Arsenic, quinine, extract of thyroid gland, mercury, digitalis, adrenalin, erythrol tetranitrate, salicylates, iron, valerian and nitroglycerine have been tried by competent observers without benefit. Ex- posure of the splenic area to the X-ray has no influence. The noteworthy features of this case are the age of the patient, the nonappearance of the menses and the epileptiform convul- sions with epistaxis. The disease occurs most frequently be- tween the ages of forty and fifty. This patient, therefore, seems to be the youngest recorded case. Nothing positive is known concerning the etiology and treat- ment of this affection. Necropsies have been performed upon about fifteen cases. The findings consisted of pronounced engorgement of the organs and intense hyperplasia of the bone marrow. Microscopical examination of the bone marrow showed a predominance of red cells over the normal fat cells. The primary seat of the condition is probably in the marrow of the long bones. The enlargement of the spleen is due to passive congestion.