261 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. extrauterine pregnancy had been made. At that time the fetus died and the patient suffered a severe attack of peritonitis. Seventeen years later she got carcinoma of the cervix uteri, and it is for this condition that laparotomy was performed. At operation the gestation-sac was removed; also the uterus and the adnexa. The patient recovered. The fetus, which was converted into a lithopedion, was situated in the left ovary. The specimen shows the uterus, right ovary and both tubes. The demonstration does not show the left tube to be quite free from the gestation-sac. No microscopical proof was submitted to support the claim made. The case cannot, therefore, be accepted as one of true ovarian pregnancy. The other specimen shown by the same author at the same meeting, is so obviously a tubo-ovarian pregnancy that its description would be out of place in this paper. Gottschalk (1893).—At a meeting of the Obstetrical and Gynecological Society, in 1893, this author presented a well-preserved lithopedion weighing about five pounds. He had obtained the specimen by lap- arotomy from a woman 54 years of age, who had carried it for 30 years. He said: "The whole gestation-sac is surrounded by a closed ovarian capsule which varies in thickness from one to several millimeters. In this outer capsule or covering, numerous corpora lutea and Graafian follicles are visible. Under this outer covering of ovarian tissue is one of greater thickness and chalky composition. Within this chalky cap- sule was the five-pound fetus, and together they made a tumor which reached up to the woman's umbilicus. The corresponding tube was elongated but otherwise normal." The temptation to discuss this case in its various phases is almost irresistible; that would lead us too far, however. It may be pointed out that, in all probability, the case was not one of ovarian pregnancy, because the sac was not shown to be con- nected to the uterus by the ovarian ligament. Ludwig (1896).—In February, 1896, a woman, 35 years of age, who had borne six children, gave birth to a female child. Following this event the midwife noticed another child moving within the patient's abdomen. Six days post partum the patient undertook a 17-hour jour- ney to Vienna. Here a laparotomy was done by the author and a living male child extracted. An elastic ligature was placed around the lower part of the uterus and the latter removed. Mother and child left the hospital four weeks later in good condition. Professor Kolisko examined the specimen and made a very careful and exhaustive report. He gave it as his opinion that the case was one of ovarian pregnancy. Some doubt as to the correctness of this conclusion must arise in the mind of