COMPLICATED MASTOIDITIS. 5 warm towels, and the contents of the sinus above evacuated, where plenty of pus was found, and a large amount of broken- down and disintegrated clot. Working back toward the tor- cular, a firm clot was found completely filling the lumen of the vessel, and upon its removal a free hemorrhage was established from this end. The disintegration below, above the bulb, was very marked, the broken-down clot with pus being about the con- sistency of thick molasses, and of a reddish brown color. A sufficient portion of the bony wall of the bulb was removed posterior, and below the facial canal, so as to permit the passage of a curette into the bulb, and after but little manipulation, free hemorrhage was established in this locality, the origin of the blood being, of course, from one or both petrosal sinuses. The hemorrhage was apparently as free as we would expect to find it, were the vein below intact and performing its usual function (a point which should not be forgotten), as many op- erators tell us that in phlebitis of the sinus proper, where a free hemorrhage is established here, it is not necessary to pro- long the operation, as the blood which is present comes from an unobstructed vein below. This demonstration, as well as many others that have been made, show us, I believe, conclu- sively that the source of such bleeding is from the petrosals and not the vein below, as we may have a vein obstructed and still obtain abundant blood from this region. There was con- siderable sloughing of the posterior sinus wall, extending as far back as the cerebellum, and this was removed by the scissors. The wound above was dressed in the usual way; the neck wound was flushed with a hot saline solution; a cigarette drain was introduced, the opening closed with a continuous silk suture, dressed with gauze soaked in a warm saline solution, and the patient returned to bed in a rather poor condition. For the following two days his condition remained so, although he was conscious and took a fair amount of nourishment. A study of the chart will show that, three days after this operation, there was a rise of temperature to 102.8° F. Both neck and cranial wound were now inspected, the former being found in good condition with primary union from end to end. The cranial wound, however, was not found in as good condition; as over the cerebellum, where the sloughing edges of the dura had been cut away, there was a protrusion about the size of