TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 275 menstrual period. She came to me on the following day for an opinion. Physical examination showed the heart, lungs, liver, and kid- neys to be normal. There was no rigidity of the abdominal muscles nor was anything abnormal to be felt within the abdo- men. Vaginal examination disclosed a gaping introitus stained with fresh blood. Bimanually, the cervix was found to be softened and slightly patulous. The uterus was somewhat en- larged, in good- position and not specially tender. The right adnexa were apparently normal. The left Fallopian tube ap- peared to be quite normal. Occupying the place of the left ovary was a round, smooth, elastic, freely movable swelling which gave the impression of being the left ovary enlarged to perhaps four or five times its normal size. In view of the history and findings, a diagnosis of extrauterine pregnancy was made. The tentative diagnosis was probable tuboovarian pregnancy. Immediate operation was advised. The patient thereupon was admitted to the Gynecological division of the Sydenham Hos- pital. After the preparation of the patient for laparotomy had been carried out in the usual manner, operation was performed the following day. Operation. A median incision about four inches long was made through the linea alba. At this point it was noticed that the abdominal walls were extraordinarily vascular. This tended to confirm the diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy. It has been the writer's experience that in operations for extrauterine pregnancy the abdominal walls are very vascular and bleed excessively. The peritoneum having been divided the full length of the incision, the patient was placed in the Trendelenburg position, a large sized broad retractor placed in the lower angle of the wound, and the intestines packed away by a large abdominal sponge. On introducing the hand within the pelvis it was noticed that the uterus was but slightly enlarged, in good position and freely moveable. Running the fingers along the left Fallopian tube, the latter appeared to be normal in every way; and thus the left ovary was reached, which seemed to be considerably enlarged, but not adherent. A heavy chromic-gut ligature was passed around the ligamentum infundibulo-pelvicum and securely tied,