MENTAL DEFICIENCIES IN EARLY CHILDHOOD. 217 idiocy, of central origin without involvement of the eyeball. Occasionally the patient may be subject to congenital cataract, microphthalmos, coloboma iridis, irideremia, lesions of the vitreous, strabismus, and similar visual defects which in con- junction with other stigmata facilitate the diagnosis. Except in encephalitic or amaurotic family idiocy, defective hearing of central origin is rather uncommon. On the other hand, deafness is not rarely observed as a result of congenital malformation or acquired disease of the auditory canal. In the latter event a history of normal hearing at an earlier age is usually obtainable. Genuine idiocy is invariably associated with a voracious ap- petite, and owing to imperfect development of the senses of taste and smell, no choice is manifested as to the kind of food given. Everything that comes along is rapidly devoured; hence the frequency of gastrointestinal disturbances in feeble- minded children. The sense of smell is sometimes so obtuse that even irritating odors are not productive of local or reflex phenomena in the respiratory tract. On the other hand, occa- sionally idiots, like animals, are endowed with a hyperacute sense of smell. Most idiots are insensible to touch, pain, heat or cold—anom- alies of sensibility which explain the frequency with which such children are subjected to external injuries and voluntary bodily mutilations. In some of them, however, especially in those with marked defective vision, tactile sense is so highly developed that by this means alone they are able to recognize persons who feed and care for them. Congenital deafness is, of course, associated with mutism. But even where hearing is intact, few idiots are able to speak. Some of them, by imitation, do learn to utter a few words, but their expressions usually bear no relation to any distinct desire or action, and they understand words spoken to them no better than what they speak. Moreover, their power of imitation is very much delayed in development or may never become manifest—all depending upon their faculty of attention. In partial idiocy, such as mild forms of infantilism, cretinism, encephalitis, or microcephalus, the power of conversation may reach a certain degree of potency, but their vocabulary is usually very limited and fragmentary.