403 AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. 2. A paresis, or paralysis of the greater part of the body; this paralysis may be either flaccid or spastic. 3. The reflexes may be deficient or increased. 4. A diminution of the vision, terminating in absolute blind- ness (changes in the macula lutea, and later an optic nerve atrophy). 5. Marasmus, and a fatal termination, as a rule, about the second year. 6. The occurrence of the affection in several members of the same family. 7. Healthy at birth, remaining so up to the third or fifth month. Other occasional symptoms in the disease are (1) nystagmus; (2) strabismus; (3) hyperacuity of hearing; in addition to these, Falkenheim has observed two others: "explosive laugh- ter " and " disturbances of deglutition." Disturbances of de- glutition was a marked symptom in the patient here reported by me. There was inordinate laughter in the later course of the disease, although in the early stage the child never laughed. Besides the marked peculiarity in the eyes in this disease, another feature of special significance is its occurrence in several members of the same family, although not necessarily in rota- tion. The parents are usually healthy, and syphilis has been definitely excluded as a cause of the disease. Another peculiar feature is that, up to the present, the majority of the cases have occurred in Hebrews, usually from the eastern part of Europe. In fact, all the first cases were in Hebrews. This fact was com- mented upon by Carter; but since his paper, some cases have been reported in other races besides the Hebrew. The report of my own case is as follows: Rubin G., admitted to the Babies' Wards of the New York Post-Graduate Hospital, under Dr. Chapin's care, December 21, 1907. He remained until January 21, 1908, at which time he was discharged, but returned in a few days, and died in the hospital February 4, 1908. Father and mother were Russian Jews, healthy. There were five children in the fam- ily, three of whom are living and well; two died of amaurotic family idiocy, this case being one of these. The oldest child, which was the other case, was born normally after a labor of only two hours, and was] apparently healthy [until about the