123 TREATMENT OF BASEDOW'S DISEASE. tions of Gilmer, Schlesinger, Stegmann, Sklodowski, Schwarz and Freund.2 Since that time I have treated fifteen cases of Basedow's disease by ordinary Roentgen treatment as well as by the combination method. In one of these cases toxic signs resembling the symptoms of a severe pneumonia sometimes persisted at various intervals for two weeks after removal of the right thyroid lobe. The patient, an Italian girl, seventeen years of age, (Fig. 5), com- plained of great respiratory disturbances, palpitation, tremor and a sensation of heat over the skin of the body; excessive perspiration, restlessness at night and general decrepitude. The enlargement of the thyroid gland was considerable, while the exophthalmos was of moderate degree. The pulse varied between 120 and 150. The signs of Moebius and of Graefe were well marked, and the knee reflex increased. Extirpation of the large right lobe was performed in the same manner as described above, the loss of blood being excessive on account of the im- mense vascularity of the external capsule. The pulse after the operation was 158, but fell below 130 during the first ten days thereafter. The respiration was sometimes stertorous and reached 70 pro minute at irregular intervals. For fully twelve da)^s more or less dyspnea was present. No change of note was perceived on percussion, but auscultation revealed exten- sive rales, and sometimes tracheal whistling, as in asthmatics, could be heard from a distance. That there was not the slight- est wound disturbance could be proven after recovery by the fine linear scar in the incision line. The patient received only six post-operative exposures. Nearly a year has elapsed now since she regained perfect health. In contrast to these last two cases, in which considerable en- largement was combined with only a slight degree of exoph- thalmos, while the other characteristic symptoms were well marked, I mention two young women in whom the opposite condition was observed. Difficult as it is to explain this phenomenon satisfactorily, it points to a difference of the com- position of the thyroid secretion. It is not be the quantity alone, but the quality of the product, which determines the different relations of the size of the gland to the various degrees of exophthalmos. In other words, there must be a condition 2. Muenchener medicinische Wochenschrift, April 23, 1907.