367 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. anterior poliomyelitis, but proved in the course of time to be a typical muscular dystrophy of the pseudohypertrophic type. No doubt, infectious disease may serve as an exciting cause in dystrophy, i.e., it may bring the disease out sooner than would otherwise, have been the case, but it can have nothing to do with causing it. b. Trauma.—Cramer reports the case of a laborer, 35 years of age, who was hit by the hoof of a horse. This was followed by weakness in the affected forearm, and in the course of time developed into a typical muscular dystrophy. In our series, there were two patients in whom it is said that the disease began rather abruptly and developed rapidly, in which a distinct his- tory of traumatism was given; but it is difficult to conceive how trauma can have anything to do with initiating the disease. It may expedite the course and development of it, but it is wholly inadequate to cause it. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY. The nervous system, central and peripheral, is, as a rule, found intact in the vast majority of cases that have been studied anatomically, but it is quite possible that the lesion may stand in definite relation to disease of the muscle spindles, which forms a striking feature in transverse section of the muscle. It would be an important addition to our knowledge of these elements, and to our knowledge of the myopathies if their condition, if their state of preservation were known in every case of dystrophy. If they are unaffected in every case of dystrophy, then it would seem most likely that the disease must depend upon conditions outside the muscle, and at a place where the motor and sensory fibres are separated i.e., central to the posterior root ganglion. In a lecture on myopathy, delivered six years ago, Gowers rejects rather dis- dainfully, not to say scornfully, the idea that myopathy may be a trophoneurosis. "It is a doctrine that should have died of inanition long ago; purely hypothetical, every definite fact is opposed to it."1 That, as an expression of personal opinion, should have some weight; but in so far as it scorns the opinions of others and the testimony of post mortem investigations, which show that a condition of the muscles similar to that 1. British Med. Journ. July 12, 1902.