133 PERITONITIS. observation goes, so many practitioners err in their diagnosis and prognosis. They are under the impression that, because there is no foul discharge, the case is not septic, and are thus prone to give a favorable prognosis. As a matter of fact, the cases of pure sapric infection, which always give rise to discharge of disagreeable odor, are not serious so far as the danger to life is ■concerned, so long as they are not complicated by a streptococcic infection. In instances of retained membranes the cervical canal is usually more patulous, so that the examining finger may readily be introduced through it. There are cases of peritonitis in connection with the puerperium also of a septic character, that run what may be termed a chronic course, in contrast to the foudroyant type. The abdomen does not become so distended, nor is it so sensitive to palpation. Fre- quently any distension that has occurred recedes again, so that after ten days or more there is but slight meteorismus, and in some instances none at all. While the temperature may never exceed 102° F., and such temperature may be present only for a short time, perhaps for a few hours, and then drop again to 99° F.; and while the temperature usually ranges between 98+° and 100\° F., the pulse is not favorable, ranging from 110 beats and more to the minute, and being of small, compressible quality. The pelvic organs, especially the uterus, may have assumed their normal, or nearly normal condition, so far as the palpatory finding is concerned. Patients with this asthenic form of peritonitis may live two or three weeks or more, and then suddenly the temperature and pulse rate increase and the patients die. When the abdomen is opened after death, there is found in the peritoneal cavity, pus in greater or less quantity, but the intestines are not adherent to each other in any marked degree; they are simply bathed in-pus. These cases, in my opinion, are always caused by a mixed infection. Pain is never a pre- dominant symptom and may be absent throughout the illness. It will be found, however, that most of these patients have had one or more chills in the beginning of their illness, although these are not to be compared in severity with those occurring in foudroyant peritonitis. For the very virulent type, that v/hich is generally known as foudroyant puerperal peritonitis, I have no suggestion to make. My patients have always died, no matter what treatment was