151 CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. of new bone between tibia and fibula prevented. With a chisel through the outer incision, I removed this growth of bone, which was J inch thick. The foot could now be placed under the tibia and a good mortise formed for its support. The fragment of fibula was then wired with iron wire. Fibrous tissue was re- moved from the base of the inner malleolus, which was then wired to the tibia with two loops of iron wire. The tendo- Achilles was next divided so as to allow absolute control of the foot. Catgut drainage was used, the usual dressings applied inside, with a Plaster of Paris dressing over all, extending above the knee. The foot was very slightly inverted and flexed. Union went on uninterruptedly. The external incision closed entirely in three weeks, and the patient left the hospital in six weeks from date of operation. He returned to his business September 7, still using the crutches and wearing the plaster below the knee. On November 1, 4^ months from the date of operation, the plaster and crutches were discarded, and he has. walked on the foot ever since. He walks without a limp, has lateral motion, and a range of flexion and extension (through an arc of 30°) at the ankle sufficient to walk gracefully. January 25, 1901 another radiograph, No. 7, was made, which shows the joint 4| years after the operation. The bones are somewhat thicker than in the other leg, but still solid and in good position. Photograph No. 6, taken at the same time as the radiograph,, shows the external appearance of the ankle, somewhat thicker than its fellow, but nevertheless strong and in good position. I would call attention to radiograph No. 7 which shows the faint dark lines of the iron sutures, still in situ 4^- years after operation. In May, 1907, Dr. M. aged 35 years, of Fort Worth, Texas, consulted me about a deformity of"his left ankle, following a compound Pott's fracture received October 25, 1906, about 7 months before. He was using crutches and could bear little weight on the left foot. Radiographs Nos. 8 and 9 show the position and the condition of the bones at the time I first saw him. He ex- pressed himself as follows: " The foot is worthless as it is now; do what you think best; I have nothing to loose, but everything to- gain." Accordingly, on May 16, 1907, I operated. I followed, in a general way, the operation described in the previous case. I exposed the site of the fracture of the fibula and found that there had been an oblique fracture, which had united in the