410 AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. within the eyes, together with the other symptoms in amau- rotic family idiocy, serve to clear up the diagnosis. 2. Ordinary congenital idiocy is easily differentiated from this special form of idiocy by the absence, as a rule, of the visual symptoms; there is a normal fundus, and life continues for a number of years. 3. Cerebral diplegia. Usually the child is not normal, and there is no special change at the maculae. Sachs says: " the majority of cases of cerebral diplegia are due to traumation during delivery; the hereditary and family diplegias are more likely to be due to defective development of a con- siderable portion of both motor tracts. From this point of view, the family form of spastic diplegia may claim to be an allied disease." He says further: " In our classification, we are still hampered by attempts to classify hereditary diseases ac- cording to the involvement of the brain or of the spinal cord; but if we drop this narrow, though important, line of classification and if we substitute a broader one including those forms in which there is a defective development of some part of the cerebral, or cerebrospinal system, we can not deny the relation between this form we have been describing and the cases of Friedreich's disease, or cerebellar ataxia, or hereditar}* spastic paralysis, etc. The difference in the clinical symptoms depends, after all, upon the extent of the developmental defect; whether that developmental defect be most marked in the brain or in the spinal cord, in the pyramidal tracts, in the posterior columns, or in the cerebellar strands, does not matter quite as much as one would at first sight suppose. The underlying causes lead- ing to the development of these various forms of hereditary diseases, are still unknown." Treatment.—Treatment is of no avail; the disease uniformly ends in death at about the age of two years. Histologic Report of the Eye. The eye-ball was removed by Dr. A. A. Hayden, Interne of the Ophthalmologic Division of the New York Post-Graduate Hospital, nine hours after death and placed in Orth's solution. It was received by me two days later. At this time the globe was very soft. Dr. Hayden informed me that this was its con- dition when enucleated. After leaving Orth's solution, the eye