40S AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. however, was of the opinion that the nebulous condition sur- rounding the maculae was of an edematous nature, but Falken- heim says the clinical features are against this theory in two particulars: first, the condition of the maculae remains un- changed for months, and second, there is no veiling of the fine blood vessels in this nebulous area, which would be the case were it edematous in nature. Etiology.—The nature of the exciting causes, resulting pri- marily in the degenerative changes in the nerve cells of the entire nervous system, and secondarily in changes in the white fibres, still remains unsettled. Sachs, who has done so much to clear up this mysterious disease, in his first investigation, was of the opinion that the disease was congenital in origin and that the changes were due purely to arrest of development; in other words, was purely an agenetic condition. He reported his first cases under the title of "Arrested Cerebral Development " and " Agen- eris Corticalis." Kingdon and Russell were of the opinion that it was an acquired disease and purely a degenerative process, while Hirsch thought it was an acquired disease with degenerative changes due to certain toxins. Sachs claims that the difference between his views and the views of the authors just mentioned is not so great as would appear at first sight. He says: "A degenerative process does not necessarily represent an acquired or acute affection. It is my contention now, as in former years, that degeneration will set in wherever normal growth is arrested, but life continues. A child to be afflicted with amaurotic family idiocy is born with a limited and restricted capacity for normal development. Its gray cells may do as well as any other child up to the age of two, three or six months, but beyond that, its powers for further development will not go. To this extent in this respect, the disease is, after all, a congenital affair; when normal development ceases, degeneration sets in. Gowers has recently written a helpful article in which he ap- plies a similar course of reasoning to the various scleroses^ and has suggested the term ' abiotrophy,' which I gladly accep, to indicate this arrest of normal development, followed by degeneration." The term abiotrophy means simply a lack of vital nutrition. Sachs says if we should accept Gowers' phraseology, we might, with good reason, say that amaurotic family idiocy is due chiefly