407 AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. 1887, and were also found on a re-examination to be continued in some of the spinal sections of the specimen examined in 1892 in my second case." Sachs is also of the opinion that the morbid process in this disease primarily affects the gray matter of the brain and cord and secondarily the white fibres of the anterior and lateral tracts. The pathological changes within the eyes in these cases are of as much interest to the ophthalmologist as were the clinical find- ings, which led to the discovery of the disease. Treacher Collins was the first to examine the eyes of such cases microscopically, in two of Kingdon's cases. He considered that the grayish white appearance surrounding the macula? was due to edema. How- ever, because of the detachment of the retina from the fixation fluid of Muller, the examination proved unsatisfactory and the nature of the change was left in doubt. The third and fourth cases in which the eyes were examined microscopically were re- spectively those of Peterson and Hirsch (1898), both being ex- amined by Ward A. Holden. In Peterson's case the post- mortem changes were so advanced that the examination was unsatisfactory. In Hirsch's case, however, the. examination of one of the eyes was especially satisfactory, and Holden estab- lished the fact, for the first time, that the changes in the retina were identical with those in the cortex of the brain and in the cord, and were due to changes in the ganglion cells of the retina. He says: " Near the fovea centralis where the ganglion cell layer is thickest, the gray color is most intense, and in the fovea centralis, where ganglion cells are wanting, the red color of the choroid shows through, appearing darker by reason of the con- trast with the surrounding light gray. . . . The optic nerve atrophy, which follows the appearance of the macular changes, is to be interpreted as presenting both an ascending and a descending degeneration. We have thus found a common explanation of the ^symptoms of this complex affection and have shown it to be pathologically a unit. Ocular neurons have undergone a pri- mary alteration like the cerebral neurons. Nor should this cause surprise, when we remember that the retina and the optic nerve are genetically part of the brain." Later, Holden's views were confirmed by Shumway and Buchanan (1905), who examined the eyes in the case reported by McKee. Mohr,