ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 295 or a vagina. The little finger was easily passed into a capacious bladder and was able to feel the fluctuating tumor beyond. Re- placing the finger with a catheter and passing the index finger into the rectum, a thin partition was felt which represented the site of the vagina. Nothing like a cord was palpable. At a depth of two inches something hard was recognized as the cervix. Beyond this point it seemed to merge into the tumors above. The diagnosis was made of absent vagina with retention of blood in the uterus and right adnexa. Three days later under anesthesia the patient was re-examined. The large, right-sided abdominal tumor was found to be round in shape and to extend well up to the liver region. Its upper contour curved downward in the median line where, below the umbilicus, it became continuous with a second tumor which, by recto-abdominal palpation, was recognized to be an enlarged uterus. The partition between the bladder and rectum was re- examined and estimated to be, at the utmost, one-eighth of an inch in thickness. The inadvisability of attempting to do any- thing from below was quite apparent. A median longitudinal incision—about five inches long— was made through the thin abdominal wall and a diastasis of the recti muscles in the upper portion of the wound was noted. On opening into the peritoneal cavity a large round tumor, the size of an adult head, was seen presenting the usual aspect of an ordinary large unilocular ovarian cyst. The urachus was recog- nized to the left of the incision and followed downward in the abdominal wall to its attachment, below the brim of the pelvis, in the bladder. In the left pelvis the exploring finger discovered a distended tube with one or two compartments and adherent to an orange-sized ovary. Several peritoneal blebs and adhesions about this tube and ovary indicated the existence of recent and old pelveo-peritonitis. There was no free blood in the peritoneal cavity. The litems was larger than normal, felt boggy to the finger and reached well up to the level of the umbilicus. The right elongated Fallopian tube at its uterine end presented the thickness of the little finger. It crossed in front of the large right-sided tumor, from which it was at first fairly distinct, to its right side and was lost behind in the tumor wall with which it became inseparably fused. Both round ligaments, although somewhat thickened, occupied their normal anatomical positions.