78 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. is the important lymph space, limited externally by the ab- dominal fascia and the fascia propria of the pelvis and internally by the peritoneum. In this lymph space, just under the abdomi- nal fascia, lie the external iliac artery and vein, while between the layers of the fascias and still more exposed are the epigastric and circumflex iliac artery and vein—branches of the external iliac vessels. The femoral artery and vein lie in Scarpa's triangle just under the fascia and, consequently, much nearer to the surface than the external iliac vessels. The dangers in connection with the surgery of buboes lie in two directions. First, in a direct or indirect injury to the blood vessels mentioned, and second, in an inflammatory invasion of the lymph space between the fascia propria of the pelvis and the peritoneum, the infection having entered through the abdomi- nal fascia. Direct injury to blood vessels lies in an actual wound- ing, during operation, of the femoral artery or vein, of the ex- ternal iliac artery or vein, or of the epigastric or circumflex iliac artery or vein. The accidental opening of one of these major vessels during an operation of this nature is, I am probably safe in saying, a fatal happening. A similar partial injury to the wall of one of them, there being at operation no actual opening, is generally fatal through secondary hemorrhage. A cutting into the branch vessels mentioned is, of course, not nearly so serious, as ligatures can be applied; still, the danger from secondary hemorrhage is considerable. The danger from indirect injury to these blood vessels lies in unduly exposing their walls during operation through removal of the connective tissue and the fascial coverings, thus allowing the infective process causing the bubo to come in direct contact with them. Infection coming in such direct contact with these blood vessels may cause septic phlebitis or, through ulcerative action, secondary hemorrhage. Inflammatory invasion of the deep lymph space already men- tioned is generally occasioned by two surgical errors. First, at the time of operation the basement structures of the bubo are so removed by curettage or by cutting with curved scissors that the abdominal fascia is laid bare and, probably, also actually damaged. The second error lies in making a too narrow cutan- eous opening. The combined result of these surgical faults is that the cutaneous opening closes prematurely to a narrow