300 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. merits of Kronig-Doderlein seem to me to have quite some force- In addition to this, the presence of peritonitis was clearly not associated with any possible recent infection. There were no intestinal adhesions which I recall to permit of the migration of bacteria directly from the intestine into the blood-sacs, and it is more than likely that, if a primary inflammation in the genital tract of an infectious character ever did exist, it must have been at so ancient a date that the infectious elements had died a natural death long before the onset of menstruation. Again, in the three cases of true congenital absence of the vagina with more or less complete absence of uterus and appendages^ which have passed under my observation (two of which were published in the Am. Journ. of Obstetrics; the third still unpub- lished) , there was an interlabial partition suggestive of even a primitive vaginal cul-de-sac which was not present in this case. And, lastly, with complete development of the uterus and adnexa, determined by laparotomy, and a distinct congenital malforma- tion of the clitoris (case published in Gynakologische Rundschaut January, 1908), there was a distinctly undeveloped hymen, vestibule and vaginal canal. A consideration of these facts makes me also doubc the correctness of the Nagel-Veit theory, and seems to justify the placing of our cases in the category of congenital atresiae. From a practical point of view it does not make much differ- ence whether the absent vagina is dependent on error in union of the Miillerian ducts or whether an embryonal or post-fetal vaginitis has determined the agglutination and effacement of the vaginal lumen. I have, therefore, in this study, dispensed with the term " congenital " atresia altogether and have desig- nated, in its stead, " primary " atresia. The true " acquired " atresia, i.e., that occurring after birth and attributable usually to a vaginitis of infectious, traumatic or other nature, I have qualified as " secondary." Thus the gynatresia? may be classi- fied as follows: I. Primary Blood-retention: (a) malformations of M tiller's ducts; (b) adhesions acquired in embryonal or early infantile life. II. Secondary Blood-retention: A. Non-puerperal. (a) traumatism (operations, neglected pessaries, injuries, etc.