390 SUPPURATIVE LESIONS OF THE PHARYNX. pharyngeal abcess is the characteristic type. This mav be due to the presence in early life of a comparatively deeper cushion of connective tissue under the mucosa of the rest of the pharynx, than that surrounding the tonsils; or, perhaps the abundance of lymphoid elements in the mucous membrane during the period of active growth is responsible. The fact remains that in young persons abscesses in the pharynx are found, as a rule, in the lateral walls of this space, the posterior wall being involved less fre- quently. With the rare cases due to disease of the vertebrae, this article is not concerned; in the majority of cases, if any special cause is assignable, the abscess is a sequel of one of the diseases of childhood. More often no particular reason for the trouble can be found. Development of such an abscess is commonly insidious. Loss of appetite, restlessness, perhaps cough, are the chief indications that something is wrong. Later, the child develops difficulty in swallowing and may refuse nourishment on this account. Dyspnea, snoring, and breathing through the open mouth are common and may lead to a diagnosis of adenoids. As the abscess becomes painful and large, the child may hold the head stiff, inclined forward and to the side. The swelling usually occurs in the upper part of the pharynx, and is generally within view. In a small infant this view may be very limited, however, and diagnosis must be made by palpation. The' soft, elastic bulging due to such a tumor is easily recognized, and at times the abscess wall is ruptured by the finger-nail while making the examination. If the membrane is too tough for this, a pair of narrow-bladed scissors serves best to open such a tumor. It should be cut at a dependent part and may then be opened wider by separating the blades of the instrument in the wound. It is well immediately to hold the child with the head down- ward, as these pus-sacs are often quite extensive, and dan- gerous symptoms may follow discharge of the contents into the larynx. The after-treatment should be based on the general condition of the child—fresh air, nourishing food, tonics, cod-liver oil, etc. A second opening of such an abscess is seldom necessary, but may be made if the tumor recurs. Similar abscesses may occur in adults, but such instances are rare. I recently had occasion to open a large abscess at the base