50 THROMBO-PHLEBITIS OF THE SIGMOID SINUS. whenever an abscess is diagnosticated, it should be primarily- incised. Careful observation is necessary, in order to determine the indication for mastoid operation. If such careful observation can not be bestowed upon the patient in private practice, he had better be promptly admitted to a hospital. In the event of the treatment being successful, the clinical picture changes rapidly; the fever subsides, the pus discharge dim- inishes and a general euphoria soon sets in, so that it is difficult to keep the patients in bed. Bier's personal results with the method at the Bonn clinic, shortly before his removal to Berlin, are absolutely convincing, and the facts, established by him, remain unchanged, despite the almost universal condemnation of the procedure at the Congress of Otologists that met in Vienna in October, 1906. The advantages of the method are so manifest, that it will be impossible for otologists to permanently close their eyes and ears to the truth of Bier's teachings. The experience of operating upon the mastoid with the posi- tive expectation of encountering pus, only to find the cavity empty, showing that the operation might have been avoided, is not foreign even to the most expert of specialists. I believe that if in these cases the time of observation, before operation is decided upon, were utilized for a careful test of artificial hyperemia, operation might often become unnecessary. It is gratifying to note that otologists here have lost no time in taking up and following Bier's suggestions. The excellent paper by Kopetzky, assistant surgeon to the Ear Dispensary of the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital, read before the section on otology of the N. Y. Academy of . Medicine, on April 12, 1906, amply proves this. It is here shown that six out of seven cases of acute otitis media purulenta with acute mastoiditis, and one case of distinct sub-periostal abscess, in the service of Dr. Wendell C. Phillips, professor of otology at the N. Y. Post-Graduate School and Hospital, were completely cured by hyperemic treatment of an average duration of five to six days. Just as in Bier's own cases, the ear function was. restored much earlier than is generally the case under the usual treatment. It is not claimed by Bier or any of his followers, that every