156 MANAGEMENT OF ULCERATED CONDITIONS. Ulcers of the leg (except tubercular, malignant and syph- ilitic), especially those in old people in whom the general con- dition is not good, must be converted into simple ulcers. This is done quickly and effectively by the use of a curette, not by poultices of any kind. It may be desirable to use an antiseptic dressing for a few days, though frequently this is unnecessary. It is often necessary to remove from the surface of the ulcer with a flat probe or the curette, a thin exudate that prevents any ap- plication, nutritive or otherwise, from reaching the granulations. Good support by a well applied bandage is always a necessity in every kind of ulcer of the leg. Another class of rebellious ulcers are those of amputation stumps, and sometimes those on skin surfaces following some suppurative process. The same principle of treatment applies in these cases. I recall the hearsay case of a physician where a failure to cover after eighteen months, was in a few weeks, entirely healed by the local nutritive treatment. I have spoken of the fact that less cicatrization after deep burns follows this method of treatment. In support of this statement I recall an Italian whose forearm in the upper third, and the arm in the lower third were exposed to the deep fascia by a severe burn. To-day, in spite of a small unhealed area, flexion and extension are practically unimpaired. A short history of another interesting case must be added. A lady had suffered from a herpes affecting some branches of the fifth nerve. The lesions on her face became involved in an erysipelatous infection. Just what treatment had been used by several physicians who had been in attendance, I am unable to say; when I saw the case one side of the face presented a number of deep ulcerations that were most painful and disfiguring. An antiseptic dressing applied for a few days, followed by local nutrition, resulted in a most satisfactory cure. It is now almost impossible to tell which side of the face has been affected. There is hardly a matter to which I have referred in which I could not cite a number of illustrative cases, but my effort is to be brief and at the same time not to be misunderstood. It is only fair to remind the reader that anything that will fur- nish nutrition to tissues will also make an excellent culture medium for bacteria, and a neglected nutritive dressing will provide more maggots in a short time than any other means