UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 185 observation. The pulmonary pleura is just as capable of re- expansion as the lung tissue itself, and there is no necessity in any case of empyema of performing decortication in order to obtain proper expansion. It is evident, therefore, that my plan of operation depends upon certain facts which are contrary to the usually accepted ideas—some of them so radically different from accepted teach- ing as to require demonstration to carry conviction. In the first place, a collapsed lung can be made to expand until it fills the pleural cavity without the aid of any artificial means, no matter how large the opening in the chest wall may be. In the second place, the lung can be made to expand without any interference with the pulmonary pleura. In the third place, the success of the operation depends upon utilizing the irritability of the pleura itself, which has never failed to respond in any of the cases that I have operated upon. The operation should be carried out in the following way: Having demonstrated the presence of pus in the pleural cavity, a point between the anterior and posterior axillary lines should be selected for the incision. In determining upon the site for the opening in the chest, we must take into consideration the necessity of breaking up the adhesions throughout-'the whole of the pleural cavity, and must select a point that will enable us to reach the apex and at the same time free the lung from the diaphragm. The location of my incision, therefore, is no longer at the bottom of the pleural cavity, but is as nearly as possible midway, and on the side rather than in front or back. In small children, three inches of the 6th rib will usually answer; in adults, it may be necessary to take a three-inch piece out of the 5th, 6th, and 7th, to enable the operator to reach all parts of the pleural cavity easily. As soon as the ribs have been ex- cised—and this is done subperiosteally—the pleura is opened. At first it is best simpty to make a small puncture, allowing the pus to escape gradually, until it is evident that the withdrawal of pressure from the pleura will not disturb the heart's action. The anesthetic must be ether. The patient is put completely under and kept in complete anesthesia until the ribs are excised. As soon as this is done the anesthetic should be stopped and no more administered unless during the course of the operation it should become necessary to collapse the lung again. As soon