466 SUBINVOLUTION. one, is markedly dependent upon a lack of tone in the general circulatory apparatus. This is a state which occurs not only in women who have been pregnant but is also a general condition, often referable to rickets in child- hood, to the effect of various diseases, to the influence of chlorosis and anemia. A condition of this sort is very frequently acquired by women who have been pregnant, and it is, of course, especially aggravated in those patients in whom the etiological factors just mentioned have been present. There is improper circulation of blood throughout the entire system; there is a failure of proper nutrition of the various organs of the body; there is improper oxidation of tissue; there is a sensation of general languor and lassitude, a lack of energy and tone. Combined with this general circulatory lack of tone, is a parallel condition in the nervous system. There is physical and mental asthenia; in other words, a neurasthenic state is the predominant condition. These patients suffer from palpitation of the heart, are weary and tired; suffer from indigestion and constipation; sleep is disturbed or irregular, and there is restlessness. Patients cry easily and show a lack of mental poise and stability. This condition may be well de- scribed as one of constitutional subinvolution. According to Abrams, "There are a large number of gastric and intestinal affections with bizarre and protean symptoms, desig- nated as gastric and intestinal neuroses, but which in reality owe their genesis to congestion of the intra-abdominal veins. The greater the intra-abdominal tension, the less blood will be contained in the abdominal veins. This tension is largely de- pendent on the tone or tension of the abdominal niuscles. Therefore, nervous exhaustion is a frequent cause of diminished tone of the abdominal muscles, which in turn diminishes intra- abdominal tension and conduces to blood stagnation in the veins of the abdomen. Venous congestion interferes with a proper supply of arterial blood. The tissues and the organs bathed in pools of stagnant blood are practically in a state of asphyxia. The toxic products of digestion, which are nor- mally removed by an unimpeded circulation, have a specifically poisonous effect upon the sympathetic system; a fact which is evident, owing to the frequent occurrence of depression, prostra- tion, and nervous symptoms in nearly all disorders of the ali-