ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. 430 men, with changes due to this condition, such as chronic colitis, appendicitis, and uterine disturbances. The very marked aortic pulsation, so often mistaken for aneurism, is a frequent occurrence and seems to be another expression of the extensive tissue relaxation. Depending upon the long existent relaxation, the sympathetic system becomes exquisitely sensitive and the ganglia are easily irritated by pressure either of the clothes or of even a full meal. Patients with abdominal relaxation may, therefore, complain of a multitude of symptoms and may emphasize disturbances referable to the digestive or nervous systems or to one organ. Physical examination should be undertaken in a systematic and thorough manner in order to learn how great is the de- parture from normal of the individual as submitted. Inspection and palpation should be made in both the supine and the erect positions, in order to determine what effect actual changes in attitude have upon the position of organs and abdominal con- tour. Thus we investigate the muscular, nervous, respiratory, circulatory, digestive and urogenital systems. The reflexes will usually be increased and there will be lack of concentration of the attention. Heart and lungs are negative except when complications are present. Rarely, the heart will be found to be somewhat below the usual level. Those suffering from relaxation show on inspection that they are well or poorly nourished. The well nourished have slight bulging in either lumbar region, with flattening of the anterior epigastric and umbilical regions. As these people stand, the lower segment or hypogastric region tends to bulge forward, and there is a narrowing of the inter-lumbar measurement. When pregnancy has been the cause of the condition, the change may be very extensive and the separation of the recti is apparent on the least effort that contracts these muscles. If pregnancy has not been a factor, contraction of the recti may be voluntarily made to draw in this lower region. This condition is common to both men and women who have lost muscle tone as a result of previous deposits of fat. When the poorly nourished are upon the table, there is a different abdominal picture and the resemblance is more nearlv scaphoid. The region immediately below the ribs is drawn in, so that there is a resemblance to the truncated cone with small