371 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. myotatic irritability in any case observed by us was immediately after death. Early in the disease, long before any actual paralysis is noticed, the face begins to show characteristic changes. It is usually full, motionless, and featureless. The socalled " fades myopa- thies " or " facies des sphinx " (of Ballet) is well illustrated by Fig. 7. The facial appearance is probably due to involve- ment of the frontalis, orbicularis and palpebrarum. During the progress of the disease the patient may lose the ability to whistle and to pout the lips. The atrophy of the orbicularis palpebrarum may lead to incomplete closure of the eyelids and even to lagophthalmus. In the erect position a lordosis (see Fig. 3) is observed In some cases this is almost the first symptom to be noticed. The pelvis and the head are thrown back, probably because the patient throws the main part of the body weight on his feet, thus relieving the muscles of the back and the glutei. It is characteristic in the lordosis that in the early stages it dis- appears in the sitting posture. When the disease, however, is far advanced, the lordosis is present also in the sitting posture, and in the last stages, instead of a lordosis, the trunk is tele- scoped into the pelvis, as is well shown by Fig. No. 4. Soon it becomes difficult for the patient even to walk on a level plane; and it is usually at this stage that the child is brought to the clinic. Often fractures and other injuries caused by falls occur. In one of our patients there was fracture of the thigh, in another frac- ture of the humerus. Gradually, the power of locomotion is lost entirely and the patient becomes bedridden, his lower extremities being a dead-weight. Coincident with the inability to walk, the patient complains of being unable to raise his arms, and still later to flex his elbows. Changes begin to appear in the musculature of the upper extremities, especially in the lower part of the pector- alis major and latissimus dorsi. It is to be noted as was first pointed out by Gowers, that the supraspinatus is almost the last muscle to become affected. Involvement of the musculature in the upper extremities in a typical case begins to appear usually five or six years after the initial symptoms have developed. Among other symptoms when the musculature of the upper ex- tremities is involved, are the characteristic winged-shape scapulae seen in illustration (Fig. 5). It is a point almost of differential diagnosis that the musculature of the fingers does not become