BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. 63 by the Bassini method of closing the canal. Primary closure was obtained on both sides and the patient left the sanitarium on the 14th day after the operation. Operation was followed by almost complete relief of abdominal symptoms. Case IV— Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 534), July 19, 1899. Physician, age 61. Inguinal hernia on the right side, size of English walnut, noticed about three months since. Truss proved irksome and operation desired. Operation was performed at the patient's home, assisted by Dr. George E. Doty. Canal was found well filled by an elongated piece of fat that came from vicinity of internal ring. The hernia was found to be a direct protrusion inside of the cord, close to pubic bone, and with a broad base. It was thickly covered by fat, closely adherent to the surrounding parts, and easily recog- nized as an extra-peritoneal protrusion of the bladder wall. It was turned in and the canal closed by the Bassini method. No recurrence to time of his death from other causes four years later. Case V.—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 551), August 17, 1899. H. P. W., age 45 (referred by Dr. Barker, Morristown, N. J.). Left inguinal hernia for several years, fairly well controlled by a good truss; truss-wearing always attended by considerable pain. Operation was performed at the Murray Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. Canal was filled with fat which was ligated and cut away. Tumor, half size of a hen's egg, protruded inside of the cord and by a broad base closely adherent to all sur- rounding parts. The Anterior surface was found to dip down deep into pelvis close to pubic bone and was recognized as part of bladder. A stitch of catgut was passed through the top of the tumor, carefully avoiding the bladder wall, and it was then car- ried towards the median line through the conjoined tendon and tied. This was done in order to keep the diverticulum away from the canal. The canal closed by Bassini method, healing by primary union, and patient returned to his home on 14th day. No recurrence to January, 1908. Case VI.—Para-peritoneal (Card No. 1089), February 11, 1904. J. C, age 38 years, medium build. Right direct hernia, size of goose egg, of several years' duration; truss-wearing pain- ful and abandoned; incarcerated when first seen and reduction impossible, but no symptoms of intestinal obstruction; diagnosis