80 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. seemed to come directly from an ulcerative perforation of the main artery. The clamp did not block the artery, thus shutting off blood supply to the leg, but so constricted the little con- nective tissue remaining about the vessel as to stop the bleeding. Eight hours after the first secondary hemorrhage, another oc- curred which proved fatal. This final hemorrhage was from the same site as the first, the clamp failing to maintain its hold. When my attention was called to the case shortly after the clamp had been applied to control the first secondary hemorrhage, I felt that the prognosis was necessarily fatal, since to guard against a recurrence of hemorrhage more effectually by ligation of the arterial trunk would not only invite gangrene of the leg and death from general sepsis, but even such treatment would not guard against a further hemorrhage from extension of the in- fectious ulcerating process to the arterial wall above the site of the ligature. Case II.—A young man of good physique, 22 years of age. He, too, had a virulent bubo secondary to chancroid. This case had been subjected to operation, just as had Case No. I; only in this instance, besides a curettage of the base of the bubo, curved scissors had been employed to trim off shreds of connec- tive tissue. The bubo cavity had then been tightly packed with gauze. After this operation the patient had been very com- fortable, and for three days had shown practically a normal tem- perature. On the 4th day the temperature began to rise and deep tenderness and swelling in Scarpa's triangle developed, quickly followed by phlebitis and swelling of the leg. On the 5th day secondary arterial hemorrhage occurred, which was con- trolled, as in Case I, by the application of a clamp. Gangiene of the leg and thigh began, and the patient died the following day of acute sepsis, hastened by the debility caused by the hemorrhage. Case III.—A young woman, 20 years of age She was ad- mitted to the City Hospital in a very low condition from general sepsis. In the right inguinal region there was a sinus, the only remaining surface indication of a preexisting bubo. She gave a history of a bubo in that position which had been operated on over two months previously. Just how extensive the opera- tion had been, could not be learned from the patient. The scar, however, showed that only a very narrow external opening