124 TREATMENT OF BASEDOW'S DISEASE. of disthyroidosis besides that of over- and under-thyroidosis, which causes an underlined and indirect influence upon other organs of internal secretion. The case illustrated by Fig. 6, was characterized by a very moderate enlargement of the thyroid gland, while the exophthalmos was considerable. Tremor and tachycardia were very marked. Roentgen treatment was ad- ministered every second day during the first week, and twice a week thereafter, until four weeks after the beginning of this therapy a slight dermatitis could be noticed. The treatment was then suspended. In the meantime the swelling of the thyroid gland had so far subsided that it could not be palpated. All subjective symptoms disappeared and the patient felt per- fectly normal, but the exophthalmos still persisted. For this reason the local treatment was again employed for another two weeks. Then the exophthalmos gradually disappeared. The case illustrated by Fig. 7, showed a still smaller swelling of the thyroid gland, while the exophthalmos was more marked than in any of my other cases. Tremor and tachycardia had reached a high degree. Dyspnea, tremor and general un- easiness became more aggravated when the patient, a woman twenty-five years of age, became pregnant. It was only after the tenth exposure that the tumor became smaller and the sub- jective symptoms milder. After the eighteenth exposure the swelling disappeared, while the exophthalmos had lost very little of its marked features. At the present time the pulse is 84 pro minute and the general condition of the patient tolerable. A further report of this case will be given in the near future. The most remarkable of my cases is that of a boy, eleven years of age, presented cured to the New York German Medical Society, November 4, 1907. The delicate patient was born in Hungary and descended from ill-nourished parents. The case came under my observation eighteen months ago, when he suffered from palpitation and tremor and showed a soft thyroid enlargement the size of his fist. Exophthalmos was considerable, Fig. 8. The tachycardia was marked, the pulse 170 pro minute, occasionally even 186. At first the patient was irradiated every second day during the first two weeks, then every third day, until five weeks after the beginning a slight dermatitis made in- terruption of the Roentgen therapy necessary. For two weeks during that period the tumor decreased considerably. Irradia-