3.52 FRESH AIR WORK FOR SURGICAL TUBERCULOSIS. of health. This family consisted of a widow with six chil- dren from 9 to 19. The combined earnings amounted to fifteen dollars a week; they had lived for years in the same three- room flat which was as neat as wax. This patient passed consid- erable time on the porch and in the yard. Case IX, is one of the most remarkable instances of vicious inheritance that has come under our notice. The patient is a boy of seven with tuberculosis of the spine. The mother, who is living and apparently healthy, states that she lost her father mother, six brothers and five sisters with phthisis, the children dying between the ages of 4 and 22. The husband had three sisters and an aunt insane, and himself disappeared while insane five years ago. Of the six children living the oldest has phthisis, the third has been cured of a tuberculous knee; our patient re- covering from a tuberculous spine, is the youngest. The re- maining three are said to be healthy. These are a few examples of the material we have to deal with, and our experience teaches that no matter how bad the inherit- ance, how depraved the physique, or how hopeless the surround- ings, if the case is attacked with a definite plan and a moderate out- lay, the results in a large majority of the cases are good, and good in proportion to the thoroughness with which the hygienic treat- ment is carried out. We utilize, as is shown in the photographs, not only the open window, but roofs, yards, porches, fire escapes, and nearby parks (See illustrations).* We study the family life, strengthening the weak, and utilizing the strong points, and being hopeful and enthusiastic ourselves, we inspire hope and enthusiasm. By maintaining this branch of the work, results have been accomplished that would otherwise have been im- possible. Moreover the hospital work itself cannot be conducted intelligently without some knowledge of the home conditions in each case. My main conclusion is that in addition to the hospital, clinic, and summer home, an orthopedic service should have a visiting department with nurse and physician to organize and carry on the fresh-air work in the home, to keep the patient in closer touch with clinic and hospital, and to coordinate and strengthen all the phases of the work. * I am indebted for- reports and photographs to our visiting nurse, Miss Melvin.