302 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. (Breisky), may explain the constantly increasing collection of blood in the tubes. Stratz assumes a tubal atresia resulting from mechanical causes due to circulatory disturbances or in- fections. While not denying the possibility of a reflux of blood from the uterine interior, he places this in the second position.. In the first place, he accounts for the blood accumulation in an hematosalpinx principally as due to the edema and swelling of the mucous membrane deprived of its epithelium in the oc- cluded tube. According to Mann (also Bandl), the blood of a hematosalpinx, in a few instances, was apparently derived from a ruptured Graafian vesicle, the fimbriated extremity of the tube being fused with the ovary, as in cases of tubo-ovarian cyst. Bandl suggests that at times an apoplectic focus in the tube may rupture through the mucous membrane and produce a hematosalpinx. Frankly confessed, I believe that, while some of these explanations may clear up the origin of certain varieties of hematosalpinx, I hardly think that they apply to those asso- ciated with the gynatresise. I believe that uterine regurgita- tion and tubal menstruation will satisfactorily explain the presence of the hematosalpinx (as well as hematovarium which, I think, is always secondary to the hematosalpinx) in these cases. I have just a word to say in regard to symptomatology. Up to the age of puberty there is ordinarily no complaint. Menstrual molimena—with abdominal cramps as the main symptom—will be the first evidence of the condition. During the menstrual intervals, the patient will again be in her normal condition of health. As time goes on, other symptoms will appear. The pain may now become continuous, because blood may trickle into the peritoneal cavity, causing a pelveo-peri- tonitis of greater or lesser extent. Pressure symptoms may arise and the patient may notice the formation of a tumor in the abdomen. As Hegar and Kaltenbach express it, once a retention blood tumor from an occlusion of the genital canal has formed, " the patient is always in danger of peritonitis or rupture of the sac." The retention of blood as a result of hymeneal atresia is of common occurrence and occupies a very minor place in the present paper. Personally, I have had four such cases pass through my hands, as well as several atresia? of the cervix,