IDIOCY AND THE ALLIED MENTAL DEFICIENCIES IN •EARLY CHILDHOOD. BY HERMAN B. SHEFFIELD, M.D. Instructor in Diseases of Children, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital In the majority of instances idiocy is congenital, and due to ante-natal disease or arrest of development of the fetal nervous system. Some mental deficiencies of infancy are the result of traumatism before, during and after birth. A still smaller number of cases of mental degeneracy is the product of disease or defective development in early childhood. The stigmata of degeneration, therefore, are in full bloom in the first few years of life, and can readily be demonstrated by careful examination of the patient. In our effort to arrive at a correct conclusion, it is essential to bear in mind the unreliability of parents' views as regards the mental condition of their children—most parents look upon their offspring as the wisest in the land—and the fact that no very sharp lines of demarcation can always be drawn between infants with normal intelligence and those below the average. Hence, the importance of minute analysis of the family history of the patient; the past history of. the patient, particularly as. regards nerve disorders and traumatism; and the physical and mental conditions of the child since birth, especially as to their progressive or regressive character. A nervous heredity being traceable in the great majority of cases of feeble-mindedness, the family history is often very en- lightening in obscure conditions. Grave neuro-psychopathic af- fections, especially if occurring in the immediate family, demand careful consideration, and a history of dipsomania or syphilis in the parents should always be looked upon with suspicion. Inquiry should be made about the condition of the mother during pregnancy. It has not rarely been demonstrated that infants conceived during convalescence of the mother from prolonged attacks of exhausting diseases (e.g., typhoid) were born idiots. Furthermore, serious domestic troubles, mental anxiety, and physical distress, extreme fright and violent traumatism in the mother may so disturb the normal evolution