26 NEURITIS. any other preparations containing lactic acid. Under this re- duced diet, the heaviness and sleepiness, which were often an accompanying symptom, disappeared, the temperature became more normal, and the patient presented a far healthier general appearance. Medicinally, I found the best remedies were sulphate of quinin and aspirin in combination. I generally gave from two to three grains of quinin with eight to ten grains of aspirin, three times a day. Sometimes I have given the quinin alone in doses of three to four grains, three times a day. It is pos- sible that the quinin acts through its germicidal properties- and possibly the aspirin, being a salicylate, acts in the same way. At any rate, after employing a great many remedies my experience has led me to adopt these two as giving better results than anything else. I am inclined to believe that alcohol in any form, but par- ticularly with meals, retards the digestion in this class of cases. It is claimed that in the ordinary individual a moderate quan- tity of alcohol, taken with the food, accelerates digestion, but I firmly believe that this is not the case with those people who suffer from intestinal putrefactive indigestion. I have not ob- served that the moderate use of tobacco, in the form of smoking, has any effect in causing or continuing the development of intestinal toxins in the average individual, but the excessive use of tobacco is to be deprecated, of course, as injurious to the general health. In any case, I believe that the keynote to the successful treatment is the ingestion of small quantities of food at any given time, no matter whether the food be pro- teid or carbohydrate or hydrocarbon. Any one of these, if given in quantities more than the individual can digest, con- tributes its share toward the formation of some putrefactive product. Thorough mastication of the food is imperative, and it is of great importance to see that the patient has a great deal of sleep, that the bowels are kept open and that he bathes daily. From the nature of the malady, physical exercise can seldom be indulged in, so that it is essential that the bodily health be kept at its best by the strict observance of all other hygienic procedures.