CYSTOSCOPY. 342 constant improvements, as shown from year to year in new models. I shall describe here only such parts of this history as seem necessary to make the subject clear. In the first place, I shall consider the prismatic or indirect vision-cystoscope, which is on the principles of the one devised by Nitze and Leiter; and then the direct vision instrument, the one originally brought before the medical world by Brenner. In both of these instruments we have to deal with systems of lenses and different kinds of lamps for lighting the bladder. Mr. Reinhold Wappler has done much in this country to advance the art of cystoscopy by his mechanical skill and great ingenuity. In the catheterizing cystoscope of Nitze and modifications like the Bierhoff, Caspar, Albarran, etc., the catheter-chambers are usually placed in the sheath of the instrument. In these instruments the lens system and the sheath are all one piece. In order to change the angle of the catheters as they leave the distal end of the instrument, small tongues are provided which are raised and lowered by a screw at the proximal end of the cystoscope close to the point where the catheters enter the separate chambers. Nitze, Bierhoff and others have devised instruments to be used for intravesical operations. These are more difficult to use than those devised with the straight-vision cystoscopes. The catheterizing attachment for the direct-view cystoscope, as devised by F. Tilden Brown, is placed on the telescope which, in turn, is separate from the sheath into which it fits. In the original Brenner cystoscope one catheter chamber only was placed on the sheath; in the Brown instrument, two are placed on the telescope. The principle of the outer and inner tubes as used originally by Brenner and later by Brown, enables us to change telescopes without removing the sheath; a great advantage in many ways. Brown's instrument is a double-barrel, composite irrigating cystoscope of a 24 French calibre. The sheath is oval and about seven inches in length. At the distal end of the sheath is the attachment for the electric current, and on each side are two small openings for the entrance and exit of air or fluid. These are capped with stopcocks. A button-screw is provided on the under surface opposite the point of attachment for the electric current. This screw is used to fasten the telescope