HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 450 advocating the hydriatric treatment of burns anew, because it is more effective, more useful and more rational than the methods of treatment now in vogue. When making hydrotherapy a special study, I read these suggestions of Winternitz and followed them. After an ex- perience of fifteen years I have concluded that the advice of Dzondi and Winternitz is true. Whatever I saw in Germany and the United States could not induce me to abandon the pre- cepts of Winternitz, the father of hydrotherapy. What he and Dzondi taught is still valid ; the enormous success of bacteriology and of modern chemical industry with its new drugs without num- ber, cannot invalidate the intuition of these able observers. My own experience and the assurance that it will help to lessen human ailments and counteract the terrible and often fatal results of burns beyond what can be done so far, give me courage once more to advocate the hydriatric management of burns, even though my first effort in the New Yorker Medizi- nische Monatsschrift, for October, 1902, shared the destiny of similar attempts on the part of my famous predecessors. Recent publications and researches and the fact that the men who warn against " gross cleanliness in surgery," increase in number, present fairer prospects of success. After a review of the literature of burns, and actuated by experience, we may present the following: Technique, How to Manage Burns. I. If a Bath-tub is at Hand.—If the whole surface or a larger part of the skin is burned, rendering a partial bath impossible, the patient is placed in a full bath, the tem- perature of which should be from 80° to 88° to 93° F. The larger the afflicted area, the warmer,as a rule, the water should be. In the beginning, the temperature may be low, but later it should be 99° to 90°; this is regulated entirely according to the patient's feeling and the requirements of the case. After the accident the clothing should not be removed, except the loose ones, and of course the shoes. As soon as the first shock and the worst pain are over and all preparations for the continuous bath have been made, the patient should be undressed and manipulated as necessary. If only a part of the body has been burned, which permits a