iv of that institution, and the present volume was to be a testi- monial to his work for education and medical science by his friends and pupils. Dr. Roosa was president of the Medical Society of the State of New York in 1879, president of the International Otological Congress in 1S76, and vice-president of the International Con- gress of Ophthalmology, at Edinburgh, in 1894. From 1893 to 1894 he was president of the New York Academy of Medi- cine. He was a member of the Union League and Century clubs and of the Holland Society, of which he was president from 1896 to 1897. Dr. Roosa was the author of " The Old Hospital and Other Papers," " A Pocket Medical Lexicon," " The Determination of the Necessity of Wearing Glasses," " Defective Eye-sight," " A Treatise on Diseases of the Eye," " Otic Memoranda," " A Handbook of the Anatomy and Diseases of the Eye and Ear," and " A Treatise on the Diseases of the Ear, Nose and Pharynx," written with the cooperation of Dr. H. B. Douglass. Besides these, Dr. Roosa wrote many articles for medical journals, and his editorial comments, which appeared monthly in the Post-Graduate, form a most interesting and illuminating contribution to current medical literature. Dr. Roosa was particularly interested in state medical legis- lation, and was an active supporter of all those policies that tended to promote the welfare of the public and profession. At the time of the Code controversy, he was, with Agnew, Fordyce Barker and other leading physicians, most active and aggressive in promoting a more liberal and higher interpretation of what should be considered medical ethics and of the rules that should govern the conduct of professional men. His views are practically accepted now by the profession at large. The work he accomplished for the profession in antagonizing bad laws and promoting good ones has been widely acknowledged. A fitting tribute to this phase of his career was paid by Dr. Maurice J. Lewi, in the April number of the Post-Graduate. Dr. Lewi says: As indicative of the multitudinous topics which engaged Dr. Roosa's attention and which in turn were presented to the Legislature of the State of New York, either directly by him or through the Committee of which he was Chairman, the following may be quoted: