RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. 07 of blood, was removed. The uterus was found to have been ruptured exactly in the site of the old fundal scar; at this point the uterine wall consisted wholly of serosa and a narrow strip of muscle. The edges of the wound were freshened in the entire thickness of the musculature, and catgut was used for the mucosa and adjacent musculature. Over these silk sutures were placed, grasping the entire musculature and serosa. The fetus was dead, but the mother made a good recovery, and has not been pregnant since. Case XIV, reported by Werth.21 This patient had a pelvis which was rachitic to a high degree. The first labor resulted in a dead child. The second pregnancy (1893) was terminated by Caesarean section with good recovery, the child surviving. The longitudinal incision was made a little to the left of the median line. The third gravidity ended in abortion at the fifth month. The fourth, in 1905, ended in sudden rupture soon after admission to the clinic. Laparotomy was performed the fol- lowing day, and the ovum was found intact in the abdominal cavity. The uterus was firmly contracted. The rupture had taken place at the site of the old longitudinal scar The Porro operation was performed and the patient recovered. Case XV, reported by Wyder.22 IV-para, age 29, entered the clinic Oct. 4, 1904, in labor. The first labor ended in premature labor at the seventh month; the second labor, with transverse position and prolapsed arm, lasted three days Caesarean section was then performed. Heal- ing was complicated by suppuration, through the abdominal wound. The third labor was premature at the seventh month. None of the children survived. The present pregnancy went to term A generally narrowed pelvis was found, and adhesion of the uterus to the abdominal wall and symphysis. Caesarean section was decided upon. About twenty hours after the onset of labor palpation revealed danger of rup- ture, for the fetal parts were easily to be felt. There was a difference of opinion between the woman's relatives as to the course to be pursued, necessitating telephoning, etc., and during the delay the patient experi- enced a severe pain, followed by prominence of the fetal parts, but with no signs of collapse. Immediately afterward laparotomy was performed. The tear, measuring 3 cm. by 1 cm., was located in the fundus, and the ovum had not yet escaped. The adhesions between the uterus and the abdominal walls were separated, as well as intestinal loops, which adhered to the site of the old scar. The tear was then enlarged to permit extraction of the child (now dead), and a Porro operation was per- formed. The patient made a good recovery. Case XVI, reported by Paddock.23 Age 36, with history of four pro- tracted labors, three resulting in still birth, the child in the fourth labor being born alive, but dying a few weeks later of injuries received at birth. At the fortieth week of the fifth pregnancy, Caesarean section was per- formed for contracted pelvis, at the onset of labor. A large living child was extracted, and the uterus sutured with three layers of catgut. The patient presented herself again in the fourth month of pregnancy, and was advised to undergo the section again. At full term the patient had