CARCINOMA OF THE HEART. 196 embolus of epithelial cells, which had lodged in the coron- ary artery near the apex of the heart. The extensive carcinomatous involvement in the lung was probably the origin of this embolus. Hektoen, Siegel-Delval, and others have described cases similar to this one. Emboli from the lung may reach the heart: (1) through the pulmonary veins to the left auricle and ventricle, and pass into the coronary arteries, or, (2) through the bronchial veins, vena azygos and superior inter- costal veins to the subclavian, to the vena cava, right auricle and ventricle. The position of the openings of the coronary arteries, just above the cusps of the aortic valve, offer opportunities for emboli in the heart blood to enter these vessels. The photo- micrograph (Fig. 2) shows the mass of carcinoma cells in the coronary artery. Carcinoma of the Esophagus.—Coplin13 states that carcinoma of the esophagus is rare compared with carcinoma in other parts of the body. Tanchon,14 in 9116 cases, found only 13 of the esophagus. Other writers-state that 5% of carcinomata involve the esophagus. Carcinoma of the esophagus is usually of the squamous epi- thelial type. Butlin,15 in 54 cases, found three scirrhous, one medullary, one colloid; the remainder were squamous. The growth manifests a tendency to become annular, and the in- filtration of the esophageal walls with the tumor cells causes proliferation of the connective tissue, resulting in thickening and loss of elasticity. As a result of this process, symptoms of obstruction, accompanied by dilatation above the stricture, develops. The mucous membrane covering the growth usually ulcerates. The most usual site of carcinoma of the esophagus is the lower third of the tube, at the junction with the left bronchus. Other portions which are naturally narrow are sometimes the seat of malignant growths. The tube is narrowest at its com- mencement, opposite the sixth' cervical vertebra and lower border of the cricoid cartilage, 15 cm. from the teeth. It is some- what contracted behind the left bronchus, 26 cm. from the teeth, and at its passage through the diaphragm, 37 cm. from the teeth. In 901 cases collected by Kraus,16 45 involved more than one part of the organ, 397 the lower third, 302 the middle, and 158 the upper third.