242 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. the pernicious habit of trying to explain physical phenomena by sophistry was abandoned. Another result of this new teach- ing was that extrauterine pregnancy having been, as it were,, officially recognized as possible, a great number of cases were now observed and reported. For scientific purposes, a classification of these cases soon became necessary. Not content with a simple definition, an attempt was made to classify extrauterine pregnancy as to its location, etc. This was, before long, amplified by the addition of subdivisions, so that eventually there arose a bewildering array of different kinds of gestation. To illustrate this point,. I shall cite but a few examples taken from Gurgui, which will show how authors vied with each other to report something more wonderful than their predecessors. Thus, Noel, in 1779, described a case of vaginal pregnancy which was supposed to- have been observed in 1765. Josephi and others spoke of preg- nancy in the urinary bladder. Chavanne, in 1862, mentioned a case of pregnancy in the cervix uteri. Perhaps the simplest classification was the one adopted by Boehmer, in 1752, who divided extrauterine pregnancy into tubal, ovarian, and abdominal. As to ovarian pregnancy—the one which interests us most—Bianchi and Boehmer subdivided this into the external and the internal varieties. Velpeau was a most determined antagonist of any theory which recognized the possibility of impregnation within the ovary. He said :* How can there be an internal ovarian pregnancy if, as is well known,, the Graafian follicle must burst and the ovum be extruded before impregnation can take place ? Other authors, like Thomp- son (1838), Pouchet (1842), Bischoff (1845), took this apparently reasonable view and stoutly defended it. In 1845, Mayer- began a crusade against abdominal pregnancy in general and ovarian pregnancy in particular. Kiwisch successfully refuted Mayer's arguments. The internal variety of ovarian pregnancy having been shown by Velpeau, Bischoff, Mayer and their followers to be impossible,. Cauwenberghe, in his memorable prize essay, demolished the other variety, namely, the external. This was in 1867, and in- augurated the second important battle fought on this question. It seems that the decisive point as to whether an ovarian preg- * Op. ext., p. 213 (see Literature appended).