29 SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. of inebriety in suitable inebriate asylums. In 1830 the Con- necticut Medical Society appointed a committee to report on the need of an asylum for the medical treatment of inebriates. In the same year, Dr. Woodward, of the Worcester Insane Asylum, Massachusetts, made a pi:a for special hospitals for inebriates and that inebriety be treated as a disease. In 1844 the English Lunacy Commission urged that inebriates be regarded as insane and sent to asylums for special treatment. In 1864 the first inebriate asylum was opened for patients at Binghampton, New York, but from lack of proper public support and political dissensions a few years later, it was changed into an insane asylum. Since then, however, numerous asylums for the treat- ment of inebriates have been opened in the United States, various countries of Europe, Australia and New Zealand and are doing important work in the solution of the proper care of this large class of cases. For the purposes of this article, the term inebriety is used synonymously with drunkenness or habitual intoxication in which a sufficient quantity of alcoholic beverage—which maybe very small or extremely large—has been imbibed to produce a psychosis. This, therefore, excludes all those who may drink even large quantities of liquor so long as the habit does not cause them to depart from their normal psychical state. In classifying the alcoholic psychosis we may have: (1) acute alcoholic psychosis; (2) subacute alcoholic psychosis; (3) chronic alcoholic psychosis, and (4) dipsomania. (1) Taking up the first division more in detail, the acute alcoholic psychosis maybe an exacerbation of a chronic alcoholic psychosis in which, at intervals, the chronic alcoholic may have an acute alco- holic condition and later, after a longer or shorter period, lapse into the chronic stage again. Furthermore, it may originate from the use of alcoholic stimulation in a debilitating somatic disease, especially where a considerable hereditary taint is present; also in epileptics, and after injuries to the cranium. The quantity imbibed, individual susceptibility, and environment are also important factors. There are several varieties of this acute alcoholic psychosis that should be noted: (a) apoplectic type, with unconsciousness; symptoms of general paralysis, collapse, and death; (b) convulsive type generating an epileptic seizure and maniacal state which may increase to raving (mania acutis-