THE HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 449 BY FRIEDRICH GROSSE, M.D. Instructor in Hydrotherapeutics, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. "The treatment hererecomniendedis neither new nor unknown, but is like a rough diamond among a pile of broken glass. It is mentioned in text-books of surgery and resorted to here and there in many variations, but mostly unreason- ably, and then with little success. It is misjudged and little- valued, and yet it is the first, the most effective, and indeed, the only measure which under all circumstances so powerfully and reliably limits the terrible results of burns. In no other bodily disease do we possess such a convenient, quick, cheap and handy means as in burns, if applied rationally, timely, and continuously." Thus wrote Dr. Carl Heinrich Dzondi, ordinary professor of medicine and surgery at the University of Halle, Germany, in 1816, in his book on " Burns." He was so enthusiastic that he concluded his introduction in these words: "I implore all humane men, by recommending and distributing this booklet, especially in schools—for it is popularly written—to aid in making this excellent-method generally known and applied." The treatment so ardently advocated is the hydriatric manage- ment of burns. The hope and wish of Dzondi have not been realized. The author and his method have fallen into oblivion. Not better than the destiny of Dzondi's book was that of a treatise by Winternitz, in the sixties of the last century. The first paragraph of this booklet reads thus: " If in our epoch of statistics and proofs one attempts by large figures to bring before the public a subject supported only by relatively little experience, he must have cogent reasons. For instance, surprisingly favorable results, which bid fair to cause a thorough examination of the matter." In his famous book: " Die Hydrotherapie auf Physiologyscher und Klinischer Grundlage," Vienna, 1877-79, which is still and forever will be the foundation of all hydrotherapeutic work, Winternitz refers to his booklet and adds that his hope has not been fulfilled; but in spite of this fact, he feels the necessity of