139 PERITONITIS. tion of tuberculin has several times aided me in making a diag- nosis. In all suspected cases we should look for tubercular lesions in other parts of the body, and if these are found it will aid us much in coming to a conclusion. It is sometimes particularly difficult to differentiate a tubercular peritonitis with free ascites from peritonitis caused by carcinoma, because in the latter also we have free ascitic fluid and the formation of small nodules. The condition is probably carcinomatous if we can palpate a large tumor of the ovary, which is diffusely adherent. Nodular formations in the retro-uterine space are of more frequent occur- rence in patients with carcinoma than in those with tubercular disease. While a spontaneous cure of tubercular peritonitis is not im- possible, such cure is very rare, and we must look upon the disease as being surgical, especially if the primary lesion is in the genital tract. Abdominal section with extirpation of tubercular Fallo- pian tubes, without attention to the uterus also, is likely to mean only a prolongation of life. Such patients should have also a very thorough curetting with energetic local application of carbolic acid to the endometrium, or, what I consider a still safer pro- cedure for the patients' future, a complete extirpation of the uterus. Twice it has been necessary for me to extirpate a uterus per vaginam for tubercular endometritis, subsequent to an ab- dominal operation for tubercular peritonitis with salpingitis. This was in my early career, before I operated so radically as I do now. In other instances during that period, where I did only an abdominal operation, some of the patients subsequently died of tuberculosis, in periods varying from three to six years after the operation. Good hygiene and nutritious diet are most important adjuvants in the treatment.- From our present knowledge and the experience that has been gained with surgical intervention, the disease should be looked upon from a surgical standpoint, because the direct mortality from abdominal section is very low and much benefit may be derived. In fact, if the disease starts in the genital tract, and has not advanced too far, the greater number of patients are cured if the operation is sufficiently radical. I have always employed drainage in the exudative variety of tu- bercular peritonitis for a few days subsequent to operation,