85 RUPTURE OF THE UTERUS THROUGH THE CESAREAN CICATRIX. BY GEORGE L. BRODHEAD, M.D. Professor of Obstetrics, New York Post-G-raduate Medical School and Hospital. In November, 1906, the writer had the misfortune to lose a patient by rupture of the uterus through the scar of a Cesarean section which he had performed in December, 1904. With the object in view of ascertaining the frequency of this accident, the mortality, etc., the literature has been searched,, cases have been recorded and deductions of value have been drawn. Frequency.—It is wonderful to note the great difference in the frequency of rupture after the old Cesarean section, as com- pared with the results following the new or modern operation. Krukenberg,1 in 1886, stated that, after the old operation, 50 per cent, of all cases resulted in rupture of the uterus during subsequent pregnancies. He reported 20 cases of rupture through the scar, with a mortality of 50 per cent. On the other hand, Olshausen, in speaking of the Prusmann-Henkel case (No. 12)19, stated that it was the only one of scar rupture in at least 120 Caesarean sections. In the literature of the last five- years we have found the records of 18 cases, to which we have added two hitherto unreported cases, making a total of 20. Among these will be found one case (No. II)18 where the uterus, was not sutured at the time section was performed, and, prop- erly, such a case might be excluded from our statistics. When one considers the large number of sections which have been per- formed, many of which have not been reported, the accident is seen to be of comparatively rare occurrence. In spite of the infrequency, however, the nature of the accident is so grave that one must keep the possibility of the emergency constantly in mind. Etiology.—Much has been written in regard to the cause of rupture, but, briefly, there seem to be two factors in the etiology. One is the natural weakness of a cicatrix, whether in the uterus, abdominal wall or perineum, and the other is the invasion, so to speak, of the musculature of the uterus by foci