465 SUBINVOLUTION. consider the insertion of the levator ani fibres to the ramus of the pubis, their close anatomical relation to the lateral walls of the lower part of the vagina and their insertion about the rectum, anus and coccyx. Subinvolution or laceration of these muscles, which form so important a part of the pelvic floor, loosens from their situation the bladder and vagina. Alterations of position on the part of the bladder, uterus and vagina are as much due to inelasticity and atrophy of the con- nective tissue as to injuries to the muscle fibres. Ptosis.—The condition which we finally observe constitutes a ptosis of the genital structures, to which the name of hysterop- tosis may well be given. The name hysteroptosis is of special significance for, in the -majority of these cases, there is also a ptosis of other abdominal structures. It is natural to expect that an abdominal wall, which does not return to a normal con- dition of elasticity, in which the recti are abnormally over- stretched, in which the fascia? of the abdominal wall are overstretched, will fail to give proper intra-abdominal pressure, and in this way fail to aid in substaining the intra-abdominal organs in their normal position. This is not however, the only important factor. The same failure on the part of the ligaments of the intestines and stomach to return to their normal state of elasticity; the inelasticity, or atrophy of the connective tissues; fibrosis of the elastic fibres in these struc- tures, and the disappearance of fat about the kidneys are im- portant elements which cause enteroptosis, gastroptosis and nephroptosis, constituting together a splanchnoptosis. Probably half of the cases of enteroptosis in woman have retroverted retroflexed or descending uteri. With or without relaxation of the abdominal wall, with or without displacements of the intra-abdominal organs, there exists, too, for weeks, months and often for years, a condition of intra-abdominal congestion, in which the important blood channels of the abdominal cavity are loaded with stagnated blood, with failure of proper blood supply of these important secretory organs and so resulting in altered functions of the stomach and intestine in particular. Associated therewith, is a heavy dragging sensation, indefinite pains in the stomach and abdominal cavity, feeling of weakness, indigestion, constipation and malnutrition. Constitutional Subinvolution.—This condition, while a local