PERITONITIS. 138 abdominal cavity, and not infrequently causing an erroneous- diagnosis. The fluid may vary from clear ascitic fluid to a purulent exudate. The walls of such exudates are made up of intestines which have become adherent to each other, together with the mesentery and the omentum, or of the intestines alone. In the adhesive or dry form, the abdominal contents are matted together to a greater or less extent. Small tubercles and tubercular caseous nodules are frequently met with. The free serous ascitic fluid' of tubercular peritonitis does not differ in its objective symptoms from ascites due to other causes. If the tubercular peritonitis is caused by ascension from the genital tract, the infection may have come from inoculation from external sources; as from intercourse with one affected with tuberculosis of the testicles, or from a finger contaminated with sputum containing tubercle bacilli. We may also have tubercle bacilli conveyed by means of the blood-current from pulmonary tuberculosis or tubercular processes in other parts of the body.. Whether primary tubercular peritonitis occurs, is a mooted ques- tion. It seems probable that the supposed instances of primary tubercular peritonitis had their origin in a tubercular intestinal ulcer. Because of its insidious character, most patients with tubercular peritonitis have had the disease for some time, before a physician is consulted. Sometimes the primary tubercular process has practically healed before we see the fully developed peritonitis. While the temperature of such patients may not be- high, varying from 99° F. to 101° F., I have never seen an in- stance where for twenty-four hours it was entirely normal. Pain is never a marked symptom, though usually some pain is complained of upon palpation. The patients complain of a gen- eral weak feeling, and are more or less emaciated. If the disease started from the pelvic organs, the adnexa can always be pal- pated. They are thickened and indurated. In the cul-de-sac of Douglas an exudate may often be felt, which is moderately painful on pressure with the examining finger. Very frequently tubercular nodules may be felt per vaginam, or per rectum. The ovaries are sometimes changed into tubercular tumors two inches or more in diameter, and upon examination give the impression of being dermoid tumors. The diagnosis in many cases is by no means easy, because of the varied subjective and objective symp- toms presented by different patients. The subcutaneous injec-