PRIMARY EPITHELIOMA OF THE VAGINA. 161 small cells of the squamous type, with large nuclei and a small amount of cystoplasm. The cells were more densely arranged at the periphery of the nests, next to the fibrous stroma; and at the center there was occasionally seen a space resembling some- what a lumen. The general features of the structure corres- ponded to epithelioma. The histologic arrangement is well illustrated in the accompanying figure, which is a faithful re- production of the characteristic portions of the growth. The uterine curettines showed no histologic deviation from the normal." As the diagnosis of primary epithelioma of the vagina was confirmed and thus a hopeless prognosis inevitable, on ac- count of the inoperability of the case,-1 felt anxious to try the effect of radium on the growth, especially as this was a cancer of the pavement epithelial type. Through the kindness of Dr. Morton, four tubes of radium, each containing 10 mg., were employed in the treatments, which were carried out under the direction of Dr. Sturges. The tubes were placed in line so that the radium was distributed throughout the length of the posterior vaginal wall, and the exposure lasted for one hour. Exposures were made on February 26, 28, and March 2. Careful examinations made up to the present writing, March 22, revealed no change in the growth except that of steady progression. The patient's condition is rapidly "becoming worse; cachexia is now marked, emaciation is progressing, and she is in constant pain which requires increasing doses of opiates. Perforation has occurred, and the present treatment is that of cleansing and deodorant douches, with iodoform gauze packing. Frequency.—Primary cancer of the vagina is a disease of great rarity. H. McNaughton Jones has recently written to a number of continental observers and has received the following replies as to its frequency: Fritsch, during. 13 years in the Bonn Frauenklinik, had not seen a single case. In Breslau he had seen four cases. Kroenig, during two and a half years at Freiburg, had not seen a case. At Jena and Leipzig he could remember having operated upon only four cases, and with one exception the disease quickly recurred. Jacobs at Brussels had met only four cases in all his experience. Bumm, at Berlin, has seen only one case in 433