120 POST-GRADUATE INSTRUCTION IN PEDIATRICS. for large classes, any one of the class should be allowed to visit the wards and examine patients and study their records during a set time of two or three hours daily and at a time in which there will be no serious interference with other clinics or other work. For purposes of bedside instruction the writer makes use of a diagnosis chart which assists a student to go through a routine examination of any case assigned to him. Amphitheatre clinics have their advantages and drawbacks. To utilize clinical material to the best possible advantage re- quires a large floor space for setting up ten to twelve tables for the simultaneous examination of as many patients. Demon- strable regionary lesions can be marked in colors on the skin of a patient or may be recorded by means of a chart. Not more than four matriculates should be invited to each table and, guided by competent instructors, should be given an op- portunity to examine each case. After such demonstration en masse the students would take their seats and the teacher would proceed to point out the important differential diagnostic features and therapeutic indications in each case. Diagnostic punctures and manual methods of treatment, such as stomach and bowel irrigation, bathing, feeding by gavage, tapping the thorax, the abdomen, the spinal canal, intubation, removal of adenoids and tonsils, etc., can be demonstrated with advantage before a large class. The broadening influence of pediatric study has not been suffi- ciently emphasized and is probably underrated, but must be conceded as we realize how thoroughly the practice in diseases of children brings us into close touch with almost every other special line of medical work, including general surgery, the eye, ear, nose, and throat specialties, orthopedics, skin diseases, etc. Owing to the lack of flexibility in medical matters much time will pass before medical schools will be properly equipped to teach practical pediatrics, and thus the urgent need of post- graduate facilities for pediatric study is given. It is so ordained that all evils will in time work their own cure, and the few reflections here penned are offered as a small contribution to the propaganda of adjustment and as a tribute to the genius and perseverance of Dr. D. B. St. John Roosa, whose pioneer work in behalf of post-graduate instruction in med- icine, merits our admiration.