79 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. sinus, the original bubo cavity being left a pus-pocket, the con- tents of which finally burrows through the injured abdominal fascia and enters the lymph space. The cases of immediate death in connection with bubo surgery wherein the knife of the operator, during the attempt to open the abscess by a single quick incision, penetrates too deeply and lays open a main trunk blood vessel are, of course, infre- quent. In such cases, as a rule, the incision has been attempted without an anesthetic and the patient on the first plunge of the knife point has sprung upward from the table or has struck or seized the surgeon's arm. Such actions on the part of the patient may, of course, cause any surgeon to lose control of his knife and so be unaccountable for the faultiness of the incision. Still, the fact that many individuals cannot control bodily actions in the event of sudden and severe pain should always be in a surgeon's mind before an attempt is made to open a bubo in this manner; and not only should the arms be held or so guarded that the operator cannot be seized, but the knife-point should be directed superficially or laterally, rather than downward, while the end of the little finger of the operating hand should rest, before and during the performance of the incision, on the body of the patient. The cases which I will now record in short detail, serve to illustrate the preceding remarks. Case I.—A strong, vigorous young man of about 25. There was in this case a history of chancroid, followed by a very viru- lent bubo, which had been freely opened and thoroughly curetted, especially at its base. The cavity had been then quite tightly packed with antiseptic gauze. The case progressed unevent: fully and apparently favorably until the sixth day after operation, when, all of a sudden, a very excessive hemorrhage occurred. General pressure was promptly applied, and the surgeon quickly responded. Pressure on the main arterial trunk above the wound was made and the dressings removed. The bleeding, arterial in character, was found to come from the floor of the cavity, bursting through the newly forming granulations. After several attempts, an arterial clamp was so fastened as to control the hemorrhage. It was impossible, however, to pass a ligature below the clamp. It was evident also that the clamp had a hold on treacherous ground. The hemorrhage in this instance