HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 459 Besides the chemical and its concentration, the temperature of the solution is of importance. It should be below blood tem- perature in order to cause reaction in the wound, as a Priessnitz does over the intact skin; but it should not be too cold, as it irritates the wound; 75° to 85° F. are tolerated without pain. Here again the patient must guide us. Pain during the change of bandage can be avoided by a higher temperature. The gauze used should be as hydrophile as possible, and of a shape and size to exactly cover the borders of the wound. The healthy skin covered by the impervious stuff , may be protected against maceration by dusting-powder or a little lanoline. Even this is seldom necessary, however, as the gauze should be wrung out so that no water escapes from it under the impervi- ous covering. If the gauze sticks to the wound and causes pain when removed, it was too dry, or the impervious covering did not close perfectly. In rare cases, in extraordinarily painful sores, two layers of gauze may remain on the wound for a longer time, and over these the compress is changed more frequently, until pain is relieved. The number of gauze layers depends upon the degree of oozing. In the beginning, eight to ten, later four, will be sufficient, as secretion is reduced to such an amount, that the gauze is often tinged only a fine yellow hue. The gauze may be changed every one to eight hours. The best guide is the pain and the degree of staining of the gauze. In the beginning, or in wounds oozing freely, it may be necessary to change every one to two hours, but it is surprising how quickly the secretion is reduced, so that three changes within twenty-four hours often suffice If everything is carefully performed, there should be no pain, either during change of compress, or later. The impermeable cover may be oiled-silk or any other suitable material. Rubberdam I never saw or heard of in practice. I use it in all head wounds, for which I cut a piece the shape and size of the wound, attaching thereto strips one inch wide, by means of a needle and cotton thread, fitting around the head. This bandage remains and fits ideally. In the same way I proceed with wounds of the thigh and, frequently, patients have continued working. For instance, a mask was kept around the head by three strips with common hooks and eyes, and a chest wound was covered by rubberdam, to the