243 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. nancy was of the internal or the external variety depended upon its location—inside or outside of the tunica albuginea. It only remained for Waldeyer to prove that there is no tunica albuginea, and both parties were completely routed. Now followed a time of confusion which was increased by the occasional battles royal among the medical leaders while dis- cussing this question of extrauterine pregnancy. Innumerable cases of ovarian pregnancy were reported because the products of conception (?) were found within the ovary. Thus teeth, bone and hair of different lengths, were triumphantly exhibited as proof of such claim. They had not yet learned the signifi- cance of dermoid cysts. In 1845, Mayer wrote a startling essay in which he boldly denied the existence of ovarian pregnancy and proved that the so-called ovarian pregnancies recorded up to that time were something else. The result was, that since Mayer's time, authors became a little more careful in their state- ments, and the extravagant claims of enthusiasts dwindled to the vanishing point. It became apparent that, to establish a case, accurate data would be demanded. Furthermore, cer- tain points or criteria would have to be met before one could sustain his claim of demonstrating a particular kind or variety of extrauterine pregnancy. Until the middle of the last century, these demands or criteria were lacking as regards ovarian pregnancy, so that it sufficed for a single sign (like absence of the ovary on the affected side) to stamp a doubtful tumor ovarian pregnancy. The logical outcome of this universal de- mand for scientific accuracy was a classical work by Cohnstein, who set up the following four criteria to prove ovarian preg- nancy : 1. Absence of the ovary on the affected side. 2. Connection of the sac with the uterus by the thickened ovarian ligament. 3. Lammellation of the sac which must be lined with cylin- drical epithelium. Direct connection between sac-wall and cunica albuginea. 4. Amniotic cavity in immediate connection with a Graafian follicle or a corpus luteum. Criterion No. 3 was subsequently refuted as irrelevant by Spiegelberg, who substituted the very important one, that the Fallopian tube on that side must not in any way be implicated