16 HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. attack is passing off, are fairly characteristic. Traces of albumin., indican, occasionally urobilinuria or temporary glycosuria and disturbed ratios are frequent in these cases. On the other hand, the urine may present no change which ordinary laboratory methods can reveal. No doubt, however, exists in the mind of the writer that, with improved laboratory methods, we shall be able to demonstrate certain toxic products in this secretion. We shall discuss this more fully in a subsequent paper. Treatment.—The first thing to decide is whether the patient should be put to bed or not. If the condition has existed for a long time, or if it is particularly severe; if the nervous symptoms are especially prevalent—particularly in the case of women; if the anemia is of a severe grade, or if such conditions as myas- thenia gastrica, or concomitant gastrointestinal inflammation, exist, then these patients should be put to bed and kept there for from three weeks to two months. If possible, this rest-cure should be undertaken away from their own homes and im- mediate family, and no communication should be held between these patients and their friends until such time as the physician, in his judgment, deems reestablishment of such intercourse is permissible. Cases of hepato-intestina-toxemia complicated, as they frequently are, with neurasthenia and possible visceral disturbances, are difficult to treat, and unless, for the time being, their entire mode of life is under the strict surveillance of their medical adviser, such cases drift from bad to worse and, in the end, read disaster for doctor and patient alike. It is well, at the onset, to inform both the patient and his family that it will take weeks and probably months for the patient to recover. In fact, it may take that length of time for him to get rid of the toxemia, and until this be done, success cannot be attained. These patients should be thoroughly examined at the onset. This investigation, including repeated physical examinations, as well as those of the blood, urine, feces, gastric analysis, etc., can easily occupy a week. During such an examination the patients can be up and about, but if possible, it is far better to have them, during this period, either in bed or in a hospital or institution, where such examinations can be carried out in a thorough and systematic manner. Failure to cure these toxic conditions may frequently be traced to lack of thorough investi- gation at the onset. *