EXCESSIVE GASTRIC SECRETION. 442 If a dog is operated upon according to Pawlow's method and a sham-feeding is given, it is possible to' obtain the gastric juice from the fistula. When it is collected from time to time as it pours out from the fistula, it can be shown that the different portions vary with regard to quantity and acidity. Diagram .4 shows this graphically. Portions in the beginning and toward the end of a secretion show less acidity than the intervening portions; this is due to the fact that at the beginning and at the end of the secretion there is more mucus mixed with the juice. When the gastric secretion is at its height, there is only a small quantity of mucus visible and the acidity of these portions differs from each other very slightly. These facts, together with quan- titive analysis of the hydrochloric acid, justify the assumption that the gastric juice has a constant acidity. It is the amount of the admixed mucus which accounts for the difference in the acidity of the different portions during secretion. When the gastric secretion is at its height, the total acidity of the juice is between 130-160. These numbers stand, therefore, for the pure gastric juice of the dog (without mucus). The same conditions hold good for gastric secretion which is not stimu- lated by psychical influence alone as sham-feeding does, but also by the presence of food-stuffs in the stomach. According to Pawlow, this can be shown on dogs which have a small stomach. It is easy to show that the amount of gastric juice is very variable depending upon the appetite of the animal, or upon the quantity and quality of the food. The gastric secretory ap- paratus is, indeed, wonderfully regulated and pours, under normal conditions, just as much juice into the stomach as is necessary, with regard to the digestive work to be done. It is further easy to show that certain chemical bodies, as for instance, alcohol, peptones, meat extracts, pilicarpin, increase the quantity of gastric juice considerably, but it is impossible in the dog to increase the acidity of the juice beyond its physio- logic limits. This means that the stomach is prepared to meet the varying demands for digestive work by changing its quantity without altering to any degree the acidity of the different portions. These facts have been established by Pawlow and have been verified by all competent experimenters. In- experiments3 with 3. Kast: Arbeiten aits dem Pathologischen Institute 190G.