GAS SEPSIS, EMPHYSEMA, OR PHLEGMONE. 397 there was no evidence of intestinal obstruction at any point. The pancreas also was decidedly emphysematous; otherwise, nothing ab- normal was found. The blood-vessels of the abdominal cavity were dis- tended with blood and gas, largely the latter. The spleen, liver, and small intestine looked as if they were about to break down into a gan- grenous mass, yet no decidedly gangrenous focus could be found. The brain and spinal cord were not examined. In this interesting case of carcinoma of the bladder, com- plicated by a very pronounced emphysema of the ureters, kid- neys and all other internal organs, and the areolar planes of the body, we have one of those rare instances in which a large amount of free gas is found at the necropsy in the various organs and tissues, all of which had occurred in the absence of any gangrenous or putrefactive condition that could have accounted for the emphysema. In the first case there was a still more abundant accumulation of free gas in all the organs and tissues of the body. In this instance the emphysema evi- dently began to develop without apparent cause shortly before death, and progressed very rapidly, so that at the necropsy, which was made only a few hours after death, all the organs and tissues were extremely infiltrated with free gas. Associated with the extensive emphysema was a very marked gangrene of both kidneys. The latter condition could not have existed for any length of time prior to death, and, in all probability, went hand in hand with the emphysema, the two conditions having a common origin. There are three varieties of microorganisms that are well recognized as capable of causing considerable gas formation when they become active in the animal tissues and organs, or are grown upon suitable media. These are the Bacillus edematis maligni, first discovered and described by Pasteur1 in 1875 under the name Vibrion septique, but more fully investigated and described under its present name by Koch ;3 the Bacillus coli communis, isolated from the human feces and described first by Emmerich3 in 1885; and the Bacillus aerogenes capsulatus, discovered by Welch4 and fully described in an article by Welch 1. Bull. Acad. Med., 1877 and 1844. 2. Mittheilungen aus dem kaiserl, Gesundheitsamte, I, 53. 3. Deutsche med. Wochenschrift, 1885, No. 2. 4. Bull, of the Johns Hopkins Hospital, July and August, 1892, vol- viii., No. 24.