PERNICIOUS ANEMIA. 103 since the adoption of the arsenical treatment. Osier, in his Textbook on Medicine, cites four cases of this type in which the red cells fell below one million per cubic millimeter and yet the patients recovered. We have been particularly fortunate in having not only several blood examinations to confirm the diagnosis, but also in having subsequent tests made, so that we could observe the changes during the period of convalescence until the blood had returned to its normal condition. At the time of his being presented at the Clinical Society the patient was in good health and continued to be so when I last saw him about a year ago. Case I.—P. M.; single; aged 28; policeman; born in Ireland; has been in this country ten years; entered the Post-Graduate Hospital November 8, 1904. There is no family history of tuber- culosis, malignant disease or pernicious anemia, parents, one brother and one sister are living and well. Aside from measles when a child and an occasional " cold " he has always been in good health; his habits have always been good, he has used tea, coffee, tobacco and liquors in great moderation, and has not acquired any specific taint. He says that he has had two somewhat similar but milder attacks of the same disease, the first one a year ago and the second six months before entering the hospital. Six weeks before admission he felt weak and languid and had no appetite. Three weeks before admission he consulted his physician, Dr. De Forest, who subsequently sent him to the Post-Graduate Hospital. He was at that time suffering from occipital headache, pain in the epigastrium, loss of appetite, epistaxis, and general weakness. He was slightly jaundiced and ran a temperature ranging between 100° and 101° F. He had lost 25 pounds in the five months previous to this attack. On entering the hospital his chief complaints were weakness, bleed- ing from the nose, and soreness in the epigastrium. Physical examination showed the patient to be about six feet tall, fairly well nourished; weight 155 pounds. His com- plexion was pasty and his skin of a light yellow tint. His mucous membranes were very pale. Tongue was slightly coated and moist, not tremulous. Pulse was quick, small, of fair force and low tension. The arteries are not thickened. Heart sounds were clear and no adventitious sounds were heard. At the apex of the right lung posteriorly the expiratory murmur was rather