TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 271 healthy children. The youngest of these was 18 months old. Her period was overdue by two weeks. She had been suffering from ab- dominal cramps and hemorrhage, and had passed some shreds and fragments of tissue per vaginam. Had vomited. On bimanual exam- ination a doughy mass was made out, and also a slight resistance to palpation in the right iliac fossa. Temperature was normal. Pulse, 92; respiration, 24 per minute. On opening the abdomen about a pint of " porter-like " fluid was evacuated, and in the deepest part of the pelvis a mass of firm blood clot, the size of a fist, was seen. This was removed. The uterus was slightly enlarged. The right tube was free, as was also its fimbriated extremity. The right ovary was enlarged, and formed part of the wall in which the above-described blood clot had lain. A ragged opening was seen in the posterior part of the ovary. Evidently, this was the site of the bleeding. The left adnexa were quite normal. The right ovary and tube were removed. The patient recovered. The fetus was not seen, not even some part of the chorion or amnion. Sections of the tube showed it to be normal. The blood clot showed clusters of chorionic villi scattered irregularly through it. Villi were visible also in the gesta- tion-sac. At no point do the villi penetrate to the ovarian tissue. With no fetus seen and no evidence that it ever was con- nected with the right ovary, at least in the intimate relationship which exists between ovum and maternal tissue of its implanta- tion; with no proof of ovarian structure in the gestation-sac, and, above all, no villi eating their way into the ovarian stroma, one would find it difficult to accept this as a case of true primary ovarian pregnancy. Law (1906).—A nullipara, aged 30, had always been regular in her menstrual periods. The last period took ten days—three more than usual. The patient was subject to attacks of biliary colic. The lower half of the abdomen was tender. No mass palpable. Bimanual exam- ination impossible. No vaginal discharge. Temperature, 101° F. Pulse, 120. At the laparotomy about one and a half pints of dark blood welled up out of the pelvis, and deep down it was filled with recent clot. The source of the bleeding was seen to be a ragged cavity in the left ovary. This, together with its tube, was removed. The other pelvic organs were normal. The patient recovered. The specimen was sent for examination to the " Clinical Re- search Society " and an abbreviated report is here added: "This ragged cavity is a gestation sac. The wall is formed of ovarian tissue lined with fibrin and blood clot, in which are imbedded several chorionic villi and masses of fetal epithelium. As the corresponding tube is free of the gestation-sac, it is very probable that the specimen represents an ovarian pregnancy. However, it is too much damaged for a positive opinion on this