V 1. The transfer of the chronic insane from County asylums to State institutions. 2. " An Act to prevent blindness." 3. The regulation and the control of the embalming process. 4. Advancing the standard of academic requirements for all persons entering upon a career of medicine. 5. Safeguarding the interests of the New York State Medical prac- titioners as against practitioners resident in other States, desirous of being admitted to practice in New York State. Dr. Roosa ceased his official connection with the State Society many years ago, but his interest in the welfare of the medical profession never lagged. He was ever ready to come to the rescue when danger threat- ened, and many a time, at a personal loss of income from his large prac- tice, he went to Albany and to even greater distances to exert his voice and efforts for or against measures which had a bearing upon the well- being of medical practice. Dr. Roosa was a Republican in national politics, and an active worker upon the committees of the Union League Club. In 1904, physicians representing medical institutions from all the States east of the Mississippi and some from beyond, met at a dinner given in this city to honor Dr. Roosa and to com- memorate the twenty-first anniversary of the inauguration in this country of post-graduate medical instruction. On that occasion a large loving-cup was presented to Dr. Roosa as the pioneer worker for post-graduate work. At this dinner, Dr. Clarence T. Blake, of Boston, speaking of Dr. Roosa and his work, said: The great oak from the little acorn grows and spreads its branches wide, but it is necessary that the acorn should be sound at heart, that it should have a firm and wholesome fibre and that there should be within it the kinetic energy of growth—therefore, in behalf of a signal and original contribution to professional and public welfare, thoughtfully conceived, wisely planned and courageously sustained, let us pledge the warm heart, the firm-fibred intelligence and the well-directed energy of the president of the New York Post-Graduate School of Medicine. Dr. William Osier, who presided as toast-master, introduced Dr. Roosa with the following tribute: You have worked hard, you have worked faithfully; you have been true to your ideals in medical education, and you have not neglected the duties of faithful citizenship. A rascally old astronomer physician of the seventeenth century wrote a delightful poem which has gone into literature as the " Wishing Song." It was the song which Benjamin Franklin says he sang a dozen times a