145 CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. out. These are the deformities seen in vicious union, except in certain cases of over-correction where inversion takes the place of eversion, as in Fig. D. The degree of dislocation, whether partial or complete, to- gether with the exact relative-position of the bones, determine the extent and nature of the operative measure necessary to overcome the deformity. It is for this reason that no one operation can apply to all cases, although a definite method or mode of procedure may be followed to some extent. The radiograph has, within the last number of years, been of in- valuable service in studying these cases, by revealing the exact position of the bones. By comparing a series of radiographs, the variety of conditions noted is striking. The amount of lateral displacement and eversion of the astragalus may vary to a considerable extent. In one, the backward displacement is greater than in another, since the tibia and fibula are more widely separated in some cases than in others. The foot, in backward dislocation, is extended and the fragments are driven backward as seen in radiograph No. 3. In case of fractures of the outer edge of the tibia, the outer upper edge of the astragalus is driven up between the two bones of the leg. We find eversion marked in these cases and the foot greatly out of line with the axis of the tibia. Besides the everted positions of the foot in deformities following this fracture, there may occur also an inverted displacement, the result of over correction or the violent inversion of the foot when the fracture is produced. An oblique fracture of the fibula and inner malleolus (see Fig. D) makes this possible, especially when the type of the break is not recognized and the deformity goes unreduced. I have two radiographs, Nos. 1 and 2, given to me by the late Dr. A. M. Phelps, showing this condition of inversion. The inner fragment is pushed upward on the tibia, while the frag- ment of fibula is drawn downward.^very marked in radiograph No. 1). I call attention to these anatomical differences es- pecially to emphasize the fact already stated, that no one opera- tion can apply to all. The time elapsed since the injury regu- lates, to a great extent, the ease with which the foot can be re- stored to its normal axis. An operation within two or three months after the fracture would more easily overcome the de- formity, than if attempted later, when the tendons, ligaments,