206 THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. that, if the muscles which control our seeing function are con- stantly in action and we have an abnormal condition in the ocular apparatus, then nature must rebel, and we have the phe- nomena of eye-strain as the result. Perhaps we may say that the emmetropic and orthophoric eye will never feel the effects of any strain on the seeing function. These eyes will stand an im- mense amount of work, as reading, even during an exhaustive sick- ness in some cases; but, while I believe that the majority of all peo- ple have this emmetropic eye, or perhaps slightly hyperopic, yet a large number do have certain refractive errors or a muscular im- balance—perhaps associated with some constitutional condi- tions—that must feel the effects of eye-strain if they attempt to use the eyes with the same requirements that may be placed on the emmetropic eye. We may, then, consider that the es- sential causes of eye-strain are, primarily, a refractive error which may be a simple hyperopia, a myopia, or an astigmatism due to an unequal refraction in the two principal meridians of the cornea, and secondarily, a want of balance in the straight muscles of the eyes which will give an inequality in the ocular motility. It would be a long story to relate the many symptoms, as stated to us in the consultation room by our patients, and from which they seem to suffer more or less. I might say that many of these symptoms are heard in the stories of all patients of a physician; but it seems to me that some of them have a special reference to the ocular apparatus, and these must call for a special examination. Among the latter we find backwardness in chil- dren, inattention at school, rubbing, blinking and pressing the lids, blurring of the vision, tilting or holding the head forward or backward, headpain caused by reading, writing, and sight- seeing, vertigo and dizzy sensations, and headpain around, or back of the neck and around, and in the eyes. All these symp- toms noted evidently refer or point to some abnormal condition of the eyes, either refractive or muscular, and, unless there is some other obvious cause for the symptoms, call for a care- ful examination of the ocular condition. This examination is imperative before we try to relieve certain symptoms with drugs that may be due to an abnormal condition of the eyes. Head- ache, that most common expression of the present day, has been referred to the eyes by the laity, but this is only a symptom