SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. 33 an offence unconsciously, in consequence of drunkenness, and that of one who is actuated by malice aforethought and acts de- liberately and coolly. Later, a case has held that drunkenness, by rendering the party more excitable under provocation, might be taken into consideration in determining the sufficiency of the provocation (7 C. and P. 817). In a later case it was de- clared that there might exist a state of drunkenness, which takes away the power of forming any specific intention (4 Cox. Cr. Cas. 55). In the United States courts have gone still further, and it has been held that where murder was defined as wilful, deliberate malicious and premeditated killing, that the existence of those attributes is not compatible with drunkenness (13 Ala. N. S. 413). Also, that when the state of intoxication is so great as to render him unable to form a wilful, deliberate, and premedi- tated design to kill or of judging his acts and their legitimate consequences, then it reduces what would otherwise be murder in the first degree to murder in the second degree (29 Cal. 678). When one who intends to kill another, however, becomes volun- tarily intoxicated for the purpose of carrying out the intention, the intoxication will have no effect upon the act (3G Pac. Rep. 770). Furthermore, if one person gets another drunk and persuades him to commit a crime, the former is responsible (91 Ga. 740). In another case (88 Ala. 100) it was held that intoxication does not excuse crime, but may show an absence of malice; but the burden of proof is on the defendant to show intoxication to such an extent as to render him incapable of malice. In the matter of robbery, it has been held that if the act was committed while the person was in such a drunken state as not to know what he was doing, he will not be deemed to have taken the property with a felonious intent (92 Ky. 522). In a case where injury of the head had been followed by occasional paroxysms of insanity, in one of which the prisoner killed his wife, it appeared that he had just been drinking, and that intoxication had some- times brought on the paroxysms, though they were not always preceded by drinking. The court ruled that if the mental disturb- ance was produced by intoxication, it was not a valid defense; and, accordingly, the prisoner was convicted and executed. The principle adopted here was that, if a person voluntarily deprived