154 ADVANCED MANAGEMENT OF CERTAIN ULCERATED CONDITIONS. BY CARTER S. COLE, M.D. Adjunct Professor of Suigery, New York Post-G-raduate Medical School and Hospital. There are always many conditions that offer problems diffi- cult of solution, and there are others that have, for quite a time, baffled us and then ceased to be a source of much solicitude when we have found a uniformly successful method of dealing with them. It may be stated without fear of contradiction that, in a general way, malignant growths and ulcerations or other conditions resulting from malignant processes are far from being satisfactorily managed, with the possible exception of superficial epithelioma—where we seem frequently to be able not only to arrest but to cure the process by the use of terchloride of antimony (butter of antimony). While it was not my purpose to consider these lesions, except to emphasize the fact that they are not amenable to the treatment here offered for simple ulcer- ated conditions, I shall take occasion to mention them incident- ally, and to give the technique of their care and cure. In using the term simple ulcerated conditions, I have given the limita- tions of the lesions to which the nutritive treatment seems especially applicable. For at least twelve years, I have followed with unvarying success the principles and practice which I purpose to lay down; and this has not been done in the quiet and confidence of my own private work, but in full view of physicians from all over the world. In wrestling with the delay and deformities following more especially burns, the thought came to me that if the actual lesion could receive improved nutrition, we ought to get more rapid recovery and much less deformity of the surface involved. Extending this same idea to ulcers of the leg not due to syphilis—because in these an ointment of mercury seems to give them the food they crave—I was delighted to find that the same thing was true, and that ulcers that previously took months to get well would heal entirely in a few weeks. Not only so, but the marked improvement in nutrition would give a surface that seemed