UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 1S1 of a bronchitis. This was examined by Dr. F. E. Sondern, who corroborated the bronchial type of the discharge. Several applications of nitrate of silver—10 to 20 grains to the ounce— were made through the chest wall into the bronchus, and the child was discharged well on the sixth of July. Dr. La Fetra tells me that he has since been through a severe attack of bron- chitis without any signs of a return of his pulmonary fistula. Within the past year I have seen two or three other cases of a similar character in my service in the Babies' Wards of the Post-Graduate Hospital, but those already quoted suffice for the purpose of this article. Unresolved pneumonias, in my opinion, are rarely, if ever, medical cases, but are evidences of destruction of pulmonary tissue that require surgical treatment. It seems to me that an explanation of this condition may be somewhat as follows: First, the pneumonia, follows its usual course; then, either a fresh infection or the pneumococcus taking on a pyogenic character, an abscess develops in or about the pneumonic area. This perforates into the bronchus, with the escape of a large amount of muco-pus through the mouth in coughing and a gradual clearing up of the symptoms, or through the pleura into the pleural cavity, producing a general or a localized em- pyema. In cases, where the pneumonic area lies close to the inter-lobar space, the abscess may be encapsulatedTTn this region and may give the impression of a localized pneumonic area.. Recently I operated, at the Post-Graduate Hospital, upon a case of empyema in which pneumonia was still present. The lung was firmly bound down against the posterior chest wall and did not respond to the respiratory efforts. On loosening the adhesions and expanding the lung, an encapsulated abscess was found in the inter-lobar space and in the upper portion of the lower lobe (the pneumonia was on the left side.) We could distinctly see the pneumonic area running along practically the whole superior surface of the lower lobe posteriorly, and in a state of gray hepatization. In this case, in order to free the lung from the diaphragm, it was neces- sary to cut the adhesions with a pair of scissors. If the infec- tion is very intense, gangrene of the lung results. AH cases of unresolved pneumonia should be examined first with the X-ray, and if the skiagraph shows a shadow at the point.