FRESH AIR WORK FOR SURGICAL TUBERCULOSIS. 347 a circle of ladies among the summer residents, takes some twenty children with tuberculous joints from the Post-Graduate Hospital and gives them continuous fresh-air treatment, with excellent cafe, and a generous diet, from May to November. The home is in charge of two nurses trained in the care of joint tuberculosis, including the application of dressings and splints. The Home is visited once a month by the surgeon in charge. From November to May the same nurses carry out the fresh air treatment in the city tenement homes of the patients, as is soon to be described. The patients are carefully selected from the convalescents who need invigoration, and the mechanical and surgical treatment of the children taken is carefully carried out. Cases requiring constant surgical attention are not taken, it having been found that such do much better in the hospital, until convalescent. During the first month at Southampton, the children seem languid, tire easily, and gain little weight; afterwards they be- come brighter, the appetite and color improve, and considerable gains in weight are made. Experience has shown that a stay of several months is necessary in order to get decided and lasting benefit. Possibly more could be done in a large country or sea- side hospital open all the year with a resident surgeon, yet the results obtained in the three years the Home has been open to our patients are positive and even surprising. It should be stated that the home is half a mile from the shore. Here are the statistics in brief. 1905 1906 1907 Months open A\ 6.6 Number of joint cases remaining over 1 month. 15 19 19 Number who gained in weight 15 19 19 Average gain in pounds 5.9 7 8 Russell's Emulsion given yes no no Number of sinus cases 11 11 8 Average gain sinus cases 5.7 8 9 Number of sinuses 30 27 22 Healed during season 7 11 12 One case of osteomyelitis with suppuration is included in the statistics for 1906, and two in 1907; all the rest were tuberculous. It will be noticed that all the children gained in weight, and that in 1906 and 1907, those who had sinuses gained more than those who had none. The gains in weight and otherwise were