SURGERY OF ACUTE PANCREATITIS. 226 the peritoneum, is doubtlessly the correct procedure. In Case II, where the peritoneal cavity was already invaded, a posterior incision was scarcely indicated. Reviewing these cases and comparing them with those ob- served by others, the following remarks suggest themselves. As regards the etiology, the observation has often been made that alcoholism is a cause of acute pancreatitis. Now, while the first two cases here reported had a most pronounced alco- holic history and thus support that statement, my third case did not take any alcoholic drinks. Disease of the biliary sys- tem is another cause of pancreatitis. In my first two cases the gall-bladder and ducts were examined at the operation, the first one also with particular care at the autopsy, and were found to be normal. In the third case no examination of the gall-bladder was made, the incision being on the left side; but, as there was no indication whatever in the history and symp- toms pointing to disease of the biliary apparatus, I may be free to say that in my cases this etiologic factor was inopera- tive. As regards diseases of the stomach and intestine as a cause of pancreatitis, the autopsy in the first case revealed a follicular enteritis in the lower ileum; in the second case the history pointed to the presence of gastroenteritis. It will be remembered that both of these were alcoholic patients. In the third case, however, there was nothing pointing to a previous gastroenteritis, the bowel trouble being fully explained by the mechanical obstacle presented by the attachment of the omen-'' turn. The urine was not tested for Cammidge's pancreatic reaction in any of these cases. This test is doubtlessly valuable, but it is quite laborious and takes a good deal of time, especially that part of it which requires the repeated slow cooling of the flasks with the least possible disturbance. It also presupposes a fair degree of experience to ensure against errors. In Cases I and II there would have been no time to make the test before opera- tion, even if pancreatitis had been suspected; in Case III there was time enough, and the failure to make the test must be admitted as neglect. In many cases of pancreatitis, a tendency to hemorrhage has been observed, and calcium chloride has been given to coun- teract that tendency. In none of my cases was any such