18 HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. intestinal tract, and acts as a sedative as well. No result from this especial drug should be expected under four to six weeks. It is also a habit of the writer to administer to such patients, once every other day for the first week, a mercurial in the form of the following pill: Ext. nucis vomica?, gr. J Massse hydrarg., gr. v. Ext. colocyn. comp., gr. iij. Ext. rhei, gr. vij. M. et div. in caps. No. ii. Sig: Take both capsules at night. This pill is to be followed the next morning by a bottle of citrate of magnesia, or Rochelle salts, or phosphate of soda or its various preparations. An exceedingly good preparation of phosphate of soda is the socalled melachol, of which a tablespoon- ful may be given in a glassful of water, one-half hour before breakfast. Of course, on the morning when such salines are given, the morning glass of glycerophosphate of soda is omitted. The second week this pill is given twice a week, and the third week once. It may be as well to remark here that blue mass is far more efficacious in these cases than calomel. The latter at times acts rather violently with these patients and leaves them depressed and with feelings of nausea and chilly sensations and muscular pains at times as long as forty-eight hours after giving the dose. Again, after calomel one is much more liable to have such symp- toms as breathlessness on exertion than after the use of blue mass. Thus, treatment with blue mass and aperients may have to be repeated. Especially beneficial in such cases are minute doses of calomel —1 /40 to 1 /20 of a grain—combined with a minute dose of salol, or carbonate of soda, or given alone. For several weeks at a time, it seems to act very well. Of the special gastro-intestinal difficulties which may arise as a complication; of these we cannot treat; it being altogether beyond the scope of the present paper. It is well, also, if there is any colitis, or enterocolitis, or if constipation has existed for a long time, or if the toxemia is severe, especially if accompanied by intestinal flatulency, to give high colonic lavage. The solutions commonly used are normal saline solutions, or Carlsbad salts; of the latter a dram,