34T CYSTOSCOPY. vided into two parts by placing an arm of the instrument in the rectum or vagina, thus forming a watershed between, the two ureters. The other arm of the instrument is then, introduced into the urethra as we would a sound in the male. This arm is divided into two parts which swing on joints, and,, after it is in position in the bladder, it is opened, one-half of the beak going into the cul-de-sac on side made by the watershed and the other half going into the opposite side. These two- halves are provided with eyes which connect with the lumen of each half of the shaft of the instrument and drain off urine as it is emptied into the bladder from each kidney. It is cer- tainly an ingenious instrument and easily manipulated. I, how- ever, do not use it for the reasons I have already stated. Downsr of Philadelphia, has devised an instrument on somewhat similar lines, taken from the original model of Harris's with some mod- ification. The Luys' and Cathelin seperateurs are made for the same purpose as the Harris and Downs segregators, but in these instruments a rubber dam is so arranged that a division is made of the bladder after the instrument has been introduced. They certainly are ingenious but, to my mind, even of less use than our American surgeons' models. Several hundred cases where these instruments have been .used successfully have been reported,, and they no doubt have a limited use. They require in their manipulation less experience than does the ureter c3^stoscope,. and in normal bladders are fairly reliable. Of course, in using them, if we do not also use the cystoscope, we lose a most im- portant part of the examination, to wit, a view of the bladder and ureteral openings. It can also readily be seen, if the seg- regator or separator is alone used, unsuspected bladder disease, such as new growths, ulcerations and other abnormal con- ditions may be overlooked and hemorrhage from them wrongly attributed to some disease of the kidney or ureter. The late Max Nitze, of Berlin, Germany, in 1S87 brought before the medical world the electric cystoscope. For many years before that time, other workers in the same field had been experimenting with methods to view the interior of the bladder. Nitze and Leiter were, however, the first to devise a cystoscope of practical value. It is not necessary in this, paper to go into the history of cystoscopy, its great advances and