191 UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. static pressure exerted, and the hot solution seems to have rather a stimulating effect upon the patient. We soon found that the insertion of a drainage-tube in the pleural cavity after the lung was thoroughly expanded, kept up a constant irritation of the pleura, and caused a persistent hacking pleural cough. In some instances this was so serious that it exhausted the patient and necessitated re- moval of the tube. On this account the spool drainage-tube, which we now use, was made for me from suggestions made by Dr. H. D. Furniss, then House Surgeon of the Post-Graduate Hospital, and Dr. F. N. Wilson, Instructor in Surgery in my department. These tubes are made in different lengths to fit the varying thickness of the chest wall. In this connection, it is interesting to find that Mr. Pollard has also been using a tube of exactly the same shape and size. He writes me that this tube was figured and described in the twelfth edition of Heath's Minor Surgery, " revised by me in 1901, and about the same time it was described in the Lancet or British Medical Journal, and made for general sale by Mayer and Mellzer, of London, in nine different sizes. I had used it several years before." As Dr. Furniss' suggestion was made in 1901, it is evident that Mr. Pollard's use of the tube antedated its use in our clinic. In the early part of the paper I said that ether was the anes- thetic that should be used in these cases. The reason for this is that the recovery from the ether is more gradual than from chloroform, and consequently there is more time for intra- thoracic work before the patient becomes fully conscious. It is essential that the anesthesia shall cease at once after ex- cision of the ribs and before the pleura is opened. This should be done, because occasionally we find that the fluid is evacuated very rapidly in spite of all attempts to control it, the intra- pleural pressure being so great that it bursts through the pleura as soon as the soft parts are cut through and the ribs removed. In these cases, if the adhesions are recent, the lung breaks away from them, fills the pleural cavity, and at the same time a large amount of the anesthetic is inhaled. A more important reason for stopping the anesthetic is to allow the patient to recover consciousness during the remainder of the manipulation. 12 West 50th Street.