THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. 2C9 feet that should be seen only at fifteen feet. To repeat, if each eye will see letters at twenty feet that are marked for fifteen feet, then we may say that the eye has normal vision. It is true that many eyes with abnormal refraction may have normal vision, but that subject comes within the domain of the specialist and not that of the general physician. Our object is to call the attention to, and to point out, the method of examination where the vision is blow the normal, as if the record only shows V. = 20/40., then the sight is subnormal, and we may have some evidence of the cause of the eye-strain. Having now examined the visual power, we now proceed to test the motility of the eyes, or their power to fuse images, by the prism test. First, place a red glass before one eye, and as the patient looks at the candle, note if he has double vision and if so whether the images are crossed or homonymous; that is to say, is the red glass on the same side on which the red light is seen, or is it on the op- posite side? If on the same side, it indicates a possible paresis or at least, a weakness of one of the abductors or externi. If on the opposite side or crossed, it indicates a possible paresis or weakness of one of the adductors or interni. The Maddox rod is used in the, same way and shows the same conditions. We follow this test by removing the red glass and place a prism of six degrees over one eye with the base of the prism placed inwards. If this does not cause any diplopia, then remove that prism and place a prism of twenty degrees over the eye with the base outward. Again if we have no diplopia, we may use stronger prisms in the same way. Finding the strongest prism, base in or out, with which the patient can fuse or blend the images of the candle at twenty feet, if we then discover that the degrees of these prisms bear the relation of one of abduction to three or four of adduction, it is" very doubtful if we have any muscular imbalance. Such is the simple, yet excellent test for the stand- ard of the motility of the eyes. These are tests that should be in use in every physician's office, and the routine use of them in all cases that present any symptoms of eye-strain may assist in the diagnosis. To carry our examination beyond this point would come within the work of a specialist, who is more fully competent to work out the possible latent conditions, as astig- matism and certain muscular errors. These simple tests were the first ones that I was taught in my early work in ophthal-