GAS SEPSIS, EMPHYSEMA, OR PHLEGMONS. 393 from the general emphysema the only anatomical lesion found at the necropsy that could in any measure explain the peculiar emphysematous condition was marked gangrene of both kid- neys. In the light of our present knowledge the gangrene and emphysema are the results of a general infection. As this case was observed in 1880, long before the development of our modern conceptions regarding the gas-forming bacilli, no cause was discovered that could adequately explain the extensive gangrene in that locality or the associated diffuse emphysema. The second case observed occurred in a farmer, aged 40, mar- ried, who was admitted to my service, in the Post-Graduate Hospital, May 12, 1904. Up to six months prior to entering the hospital he had always been strong and well. During the six months prior to admission, he complained steadily of illness; in fact, he grew worse continually during this period. The chief symptom complained of was pain in the region of the bladder and right kidney. At first the pain was mild in character, but gradually grew more intense and was not materially modified by treatment. It was most severe in the region of the bladder, radiating upward along the line of the ureters. Prior to ad- mission to the hospital he had frequently suffered from inter- mittent hematuria. He was catheterized prior to admission, but so far as could be ascertained there was no retention, and no definite diagnosis had been made. In spite of treatment the pain grew worse steadily, and was attended with progressive loss of appetite, flesh and strength. When admitted he was so weak that it did not seem wise or humane to subject him to a thorough examination of the genito- urinary tract. On auscultation the muscle tone of the heart was found to be extremely weak, and the sounds of the heart very indistinct. The physical signs relative to the pleura and lungs were normal, with the exception of a few superficial friction sounds, heard on the right side, both anteriorly and posteriorly. These friction sounds were interpreted as in- dicative of old pleuritic adhesions. Palpation over the region of the right kidney showed slight enlargement of that organ. A decided tumefaction, apparently connected with or located within the cavity of the bladder, was made out in the hypo- gastric region. Percussion over this mass elicited pronounced