MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 364 be found in his book on the nervous system, published in 1S30. In 1832, Cruvelier reported a case of general muscular wasting, which he thought was due to destruction of the anterior horn cells, but microscopical examination failed to confirm this opinion. This and a similar case suggested to him that he was dealing with an idiopathic muscular disease. In 1836, Koster and Giaza related the histories of patients who were undoubtedly afflicted with this disease, now known as progressive muscular dystrophy. Cases were also reported by Romberg, in 1846, and Duchenne, in 1847. In 1852, Meryon was the first to report a series of cases in English literature, and was also the first to make a post-mortem examination. To him, more than to any- one else, is due the credit of pointing out that we were not dealing Avith an amyotrophy (spinal cord atrophy), but with a myopathy. In 1854, Oppenheim read his thesis on: " Lipomatous Degeneration of Muscles ", but it was left to the French school, and particularly to Cruvelier, Duchenne and Aran, to show that the various forms of muscular wastings constitute a disease sui generis. In 1861, Duchenne first called attention to the fact that in some in- stances, at least, the volume of the muscles was increased. In the same work Duchenne described a progressive muscular atrophy of children (Arthropathie musculaire progressive de l'enfants) characterized by affection of the facial musculature, as well as those of the limbs and trunk. He likewise pointed out that frequently more than one member of the same family are affected. This disease was again described by Landouzy and Dejerine, in 1885, and it is now commonly associated with their names. They were instrumental in showing that the disease in question is independent of any changes in the nervous system. In 1873. Friedreich reported a series of cases con- sidered to be chronic progressive myositis. He gave the sound- est possible reasons for separating these muscular affections from the an^otrophies. In 1875, Leyden proposed to separate the hereditary forms of muscular atrophy from those of the Aran-Duchenne type, i.e.. from progressive muscular atrophy of spinal origin, In 1883, Erb combined the various forms of dystrophy under the heading of "Juvenile Muscular Dystro- phies " and considered them in contradistinction to atrophies due to changes in the central nervous system, and suggested that the name of muscular dystrophy (meaning difficult nutri-