CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. 148 fractures by osteotomies, and was then able to overcome the deformity. The subsequent treatment was the same as in a primary fracture. The results in both cases were good. The radiographs numbered 1 and 2, are from patients of the late Dr. A. M. Phelps, whom I assisted in operating for the correc- tion of these deformities. These show an inverted position of the foot, due to over-correction. The fragment of the inner malleolus is seen displaced upward on the tibia, while to the outer side of the leg the fragment of the fibula is drawn downward, holding the foot in the position of inversion, causing a conse- quent disability in the use of the limb. No. 1 shows the foot of a woman between 50 and 60 years of age. Number 2 is that of a man about 20. Both were operated on about one year after the fracture occurred. The operation employed was a division of the bones with a chisel at the point of original fracture. Both feet could then be placed in the normal position. They were dressed with Plaster of Paris over the usual soft dressings. The foot was placed in a straight position with the axis of the leg, care being taken to flex the foot slightly. The result in both cases was good—perfect position and good motion. In the above six cases, the same operative procedure has been followed by good union of parts, with satisfactory results. No wiring of fragments seems to have been necessary to keep the bones in apposition. The wire, however, might be used in any case requiring support to hold the fragments in apposition. If, in this plan of operation, after a division of the bones origi- nally fractured, it was found that the soft parts resisted, ten- otomies or division of ligaments might sufficiently free the foot, so as to make reduction easy. This having failed, it might be necessary to resect the bone that interfered with the reduction, or, if the surrounding soft tissues were still at fault, together with the bones, it might be necessary to do a complete excision, thereby getting ancyhlosis; but even so radical an operation gives a useful limb. The foot can then be placed in the proper axis of the leg. If slightly flexed and inverted a trifle, so as to allow the weight of the body to come on the outer side of the foot, the patient can walk well. Dr. Stimson, in his book on fractures, tells us that excision of the ankle has been frequently resorted to by the French surgeons with satisfactory results. Dr. Phelps found excision