435 REMARKS ON CICATRICIAL STRICTURE OF THE ESO- PHAGUS, WITH REPORT OF A CASE. BY EDWARD W. PETERSON, M.D. Adjunct Professor of Surgery, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. William H., aged 22 years, a plumber, was employed during the summer of 1905 as a "Spieler" for a Coney Island show. He developed " speaker's " sore throat, for which condition he was taking a cough-mixture. One day he swallowed a corrosive acid by mistake, instead of the cough-mixture. He has kindly written an account of the accident, which I submit in his own words: " On the 10th of July, 1905, I drank nitric acid by accident. I felt very intense pain in my mouth, also in the esophagus. About forty seconds after I drank the acid, I was given a large glass of milk to drink, and a few minutes later I was taken to the Emergency Hospital of the Park. There they gave me some kind of stuff to cause me to vomit, and magnesium sulphate solution to drink. They also washed out my stomach with the same solution I was then transferred to the King's County Hospital. During all this time I had very bad pains in the stomach. I felt weak and very thirsty. My bowels moved very often, which I think was the magnesium sulphate. After my stomach was washed I had pains in swallowing, just as if I had caught cold and had a sore throat, but I was able to swallow just the same, except for the pain I had. I also found it very hard for me to speak. " That night I could not sleep because it was impossible for me to rest my head; no matter how I laid, my neck pained me terribly. That night I drank a lot of water, but it all came up again. The next morning I still had pains in my throat, but I was able to swallow. I also stopped vomiting the next morning. The pain in my throat kept up for about six days, then gradually went away. For three days and nights I was constantly kept awake by hiccoughs. " About eight days after I drank the acid, I noticed that while eating meat or so-called hard food, it did not slide down so very easy, and gradually it got so that I was able to eat only soft