77 A REMINDER THAT FATAL OR SERIOUS RESULTS MAY FOLLOW OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. BY EUGENE FULLER, M.D. Professor of Venereal and Genito-Urinary Surgery, New York Post- Graduate Medical School and Hospital, etc. As buboes are commonly supposed to represent a condition or, perhaps, better, a complication devoid of any special danger to life, and as the surgical operative treatment of such of them as may require it is classed under the head of minor surgery, it is, perhaps, natural that little or no emphasis has been laid on the dangers which may, and, I am inclined to think, do without great infrequency result in connection with this branch of surgery. When, for instance, death follows what is supposed to be any minor operation, the surgeon in the case is naturally chagrined and little apt to publish the fact. Having given much thought to the subject, it seems to me that death or serious results follow- ing such operations can be greatly reduced, if not practically eliminated. In order that this should be accomplished, it is necessary to raise the surgery in this connection from its low minor level to a more important and higher one. As a first step in this procedure, the student should refresh himself as to the regional anatomy and be made familiar with the fatal or serious results which may follow the surgery of this part. Being thus acquainted with possible dangers, the steps to avoid them will then be appreciated and should be considered. Buboes generally lie just above Poupart's ligament; less com- monly below it and sometimes over it. In cases of active sup- puration, a fairly extensive area both above and below is fre- quently involved. The deep limits of such suppurations are de- termined by the external oblique fascia, which constitutes the outer layer of the abdominal fascia, Poupart's ligament and the deep fascia covering Scarpa's triangle. Over these structures Nature, if left to herself, throws out a barrier of cellular infil- tration and granulations which generally is effective in protect- ing the important parts lying beneath these fasciae from invasion by the stippurative process. Such suppurations, thus checked from extending in a deep direction, tend to burrow subcutane- ously and to point externally. Just below the abdominal fascia