MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 377 the metabolism of the muscles, is of small service, and in no way to be compared with systematic exercises. Great stress should be laid upon rest. The patient is to use as little as possible the [affected muscles. The early co-opera- tion with the orthopedic surgeon is most advisable. Contrac- tures and deformities should be corrected as soon as they appear. We have had no success in any of our cases from the administration of medicines. The thymus and thyroid have both been suggested as curative agents, and although they have received a thorough trial at our hands we have not met with any success. A case has been reported as cured by strychnin; we have not been so fortunate. ILLUSTRATIVE AND TYPICAL CASES. As was mentioned above, Gowers reported a case of myopathy or progressive muscular dystrophy, which began in the distal muscles first, i.e., the hands and feet were first attacked. We can report only a single case which appeared to us to be pro- gressive muscular dystrophy of the distal type. The history is as follows: Distal Type.—E. S., 20 years, single; housework; Russia. Family History. Parents healthy. Three children died in infancy; one miscarriage (last). P. H. Patient is the fourth child. Had measles and scarla- tina at an early age. Began to menstruate at 17, regular. P. I. Began 12 years ago. Fell while walking one day. A month later, the mother noticed that the patient limped with the left leg. No pain. The limping was very slight in the beginning, but increased. A physician in Russia could not make out any defect at that time. Five years ago the upper extremi- ties began to tremble and lose strength; first the left, then right. The feet and hands were in the beginning very stout, but became thinner in time. Patient has difficulty in using the hands for fine work, such as sewing, etc. Status.—Patient of small stature, No Romberg. Gait: Stride long, limps towards left, dragging the left extremity. Innerva- tion of the face: Lines equally indistinct on both sides. Tongue protruded straight, fine tremor, coated; papillae prominent. Ac- tive and passive movements of head unrestricted. Active move- ments of both shoulders, elbows, and wrists present. AH the fingers of left hand at interphalangeal joints can be extended only