UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 189 Now what is the explanation of this? As long as the air can enter the pleural cavity freely the enlargement of the thorax during inspiration exerts no influence on the lung. When the opening is closed by a dress- ing, the entry of air is more difficult and then the expansion of the chest acts upon the lung and air is drawn in through the bronchus, and audible sounds are produced. After a time, too, the meshes of the deep dressing become filled with purulent discharge, and then the dressing acts as a sort of valve. During inspiration it offers a considerable resistance to the entry of air into the pleural cavity. During expiration, and par- ticularly during the expiratory effort of coughing, air is expelled from the chest and escapes beneath the edge of the dressing. Owing to the coughing the lung is now blown out, sufficiently to come into contact with the parietal pleura over a considerable area, and a sort of sucker action is established—just as a piece of wet leather tightly pressed against a stone cannot be separated without considerable force, so the lung remains in contact with the chest wall." He says there are three clear indications for treatment: to break down as far as possible the adhesions between the lung and the chest wall; to rub off the lymph from the surface of the lung; and to use some means for distending the lung and so to break down or stretch loose the adhesions. I have quoted thus fully from Mr. Pollard's paper because, in the first place, he has expressed some points more clearly than I have ever succeeded in doing, and because I had not thought of the suggestion he makes in regard to \ the blood pressure; and, finally, that I might express my thanks to him for his courtesy in sending me his corroborative views in this line of work. It will be readily seen that, with the gradual expansion of the lung during the liberation of the adhesions, the surgeon cannot fail to recognize whether the aeration spreads through- out the whole lung or whether there are areas which remain flat and offer more resistance to the examining finger. When this latter condition is present ocular investigation should be added to the sense of touch. A pair of retractors should be inserted on each side of the incision, the wound spread open to its full extent, and the free fluid remaining in the cavity from previous flushings taken up with gauze sponges until the pulmonary pleural surface can be clearly seen. It will often be recognized that some area will have a grayish appearance, and palpation at this point sometimes reveals a sense of fluctuation. Not infrequently when an empyema is present, a rupture will be