98 RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. severe pain, vomited and the abdomen was very tense and tender. Seven- teen hours after the onset of labor the extreme abdominal distension made palpation impossible; the fetal heart could not be heard, the pulse was 90, the temperature 100° F., respiration labored. Seven hours later (twenty four? hours after rupture) the abdomen was opened; the intact ovum and blood clots were found in the peritoneal cavity and the uterus was well contracted, bleeding having ceased. The child weighed 9h lbs. It was thought that the rupture had taken place twenty-four hours before operation, at the onset of labor, as the fetal movements which had been pronounced, ceased at that time. During the last month of pregnancy the uterus had increased greatly in size, with hydramnion. Supra-vaginal amputation was done, and the patient made a good recovery. Case XVII, reported by Mabbott.24 Negress, age, 23 years, Caesarean section having been performed for contracted pelvis. The fundal in- cision was used. The uterus had been closed with three layers of sutures, but the endometrium had not been included. The patient was seen for the first time when labor had been in progress for twenty hours. The pulse was 102, respirations 24, temperature 99.4° F. The cervix admitted two fingers, and the vertex presented above the brim. The diagnosis of rupture was not made, but when the abdominal incision was made for Caesarean section, blood and clots were found in the peritoneal cavity and the rupture was discovered. There was a laceration 7 cm. in length in the cicatrix of the fundal incision, and from this the fetal sac, about as large as the fist, protruded. A longitudinal incision, starting from the middle of the laceration, was made and a living child weighing 6} lbs. was removed. The ovaries and part of the tubes were removed, and the wounds in the uterus were closed with heavy chromicized catgut, the endometrium, not included. Case XVIII, reported by Schneider.20 The patient, a V-para, with a history of difficult labors, caused by contracted pelvis, was delivered successfully by the classical Caesarean section in 1904. Two years later she was admitted to the hospital in the first stage of labor, stating that she had suffered from severe pains for seven hours. The cervix was dilated about three fingers. During the bath the membranes ruptured, and meconium-stained fluid escaped. The abdominal incision was made in the old scar, and considerable blood was found in the peritoneal cavity. The lower two-thirds of the uterine scar was perfect, but in the upper third there was a rupture about the size of a button hole, through which a portion of placenta the size of a hen's egg protruded, having been gradually forced out by strong uterine contractions. The entire scar was then incised and the child extracted in a state of deep asphyxia, from which it was revived. The patient collapsed at this juncture, and, in- stead of performing a Porro, as the operator had planned, he quickly sutured the wound and sterilized the patient by resecting the tubes. Later, there was a post partum hemorrhage, but the patient recovered and left the hospital with her child on the twenty-second day after opera- tion. Case XIX, reported by Lobenstine, to whom the thanks of the writer