176 CHRONIC INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS. faulty metabolism at the time of the first examination—one, intestinal toxemia and three, faulty nitrogen metabolism. In these cases the period prior to actual evidences of nephritis was also invariably long. In 22 cases observed for five years, functional albuminuria and evidences of faulty metabolism were present at the time of the first examination; intestinal toxemia in se\Ten; hepato- toxemia and faulty nitrogen partition in 12; both conditions com- bined in three. All these cases have developed the classical urinary picture of chronic interstitial nephritis. There-were no evidences of general arteriosclerosis in any, as far as could be learned. The small series quoted would seem to demonstrate faulty nitrogen metabolism in the majority, and intestinal toxemia in a considerable proportion. In reading the histories of the com- paratively rare cases of chronic interstitial nephritis in children, the impression is invariably gained that faulty metabolism ex- isted. Either there is a record of long standing gastro-intestinal derangement, or one which justifies suspecting the presence of a socalled lithemic tendency. While it must be admitted that faulty metabolism seems a potent factor in the etiology of chronic interstitial nephritis, the question arises, why a large number of persons suffering from severe grades of faulty metabolism, for very long periods, never develop the disease or show evidences of functional albuminuria. It seems probable that unknown hepatic or intestinal toxic poisons in the circulation are the substances which cause spastic contraction of arterioles, vascular hypertension, cardiac and renal change, and that these faults are not due to the presence in the blood of abnormal amounts of normal constituents, the result of faulty body chemistry. Ordinarily, the degree of hepatotoxemia or intestinal toxemia is judged approximately by the degree of the resulting faulty body chemistry, but this is, by no means, an invariable rule. Cases are not infrequent in which faults in body chemistry can be demonstrated and no evidences of toxemia found, and, on the other hand, decided evidences of toxemia occur when the faults in body chemistry are dis- appointingly slight. The subject will remain obscure to the scientist and unsatisfactory to the clinician until the time when these toxins are isolated, their origin determined and methods for their detection and estimation described.