225 SURGERY OF ACUTE PANCREATITIS. cision was made, as it gave better opportunity for exact observation and diagnosis. Left rectus incision, six inches long. The omentum, lying over the colon covering the mass, was found adherent to the posterior peritoneum. A long tag of omentum passed down and around the gut to become attached to the mass underneath, which proves to be the much enlarged tail of the pancreas, acutely inflamed. This condition doubt- lessly explained the obstinate constipation of which he complained. The kidney lay high up and was of normal size. The patient was now turned upon his right side and a left posterior incision made, similar to that em- ployed for nephrotomy. The dissection was carried into the depth below and to the medial side of the kidney. Blunt dissection was very much facilitated and hastened by bimanual work with the left hand in the peritoneal cavity. On reaching the pancreas, an aspirating needle was inserted with negative result. A long forceps was then introduced into the organ and its branches opened, but without disclosing the presence of pus. The diagnosis of acute pancreatitis without pus was then made. The abdominal wound was closed; the posterior wound was left open and drained with tube and gauze. On the second day after operation, the temperature rose again to 102.4° F. A change of dressing revealed a wound discharge which, while not profuse, was rather ill-smelling and distinctly purulent. Staphy- lococcus aurens was found in the pus. It appears, therefore, that there was a focus of pus in the pancreas which was not opened at the operation, but found its way out later. The temperature went down on the follow- ing day. The wound condition remained about the same for two or three days. Then the discharge gradually diminished and the wound closed, the patient being completely cured. In this case the symptoms were not so stormy as in the other two, except that the pain was intense. The presence of a pal- pable tumor in the left hypochondrium was a great help in the diagnosis. Its retroperitoneal character was made out by in- flating the colon and observing its position in relation to the tumor. It was most probable, therefore, that the tumor was pancreas, although the negative urine report would not exclude the possibility of a kidney tumor. On exploratory laparotomy, the manner in which the omentum was wrapped about the pan- creas at once gave proof of the inflammatory nature of the tumor. The way in which it also bound down the colon, gave an inter- esting illustration of the manner in which obstinate constipa- tion and even intestinal obstruction may occur as a consequence of pancreatitis. The great pain which he suffered may have been, in part, due to pressure of the enlarged organ on the ganglia of the solar plexus. Drainage through a posterior in- cision, in cases where the pus has not yet broken through