273 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. ruary 10 some abdominal pain; next day she again experienced this pain, dizziness and faintness and had cold perspiration on her forehead. As the symptoms grew alarming, she went to the Necker Hospital. She showed signs of internal hemorrhage. At laparotomy about a liter of fluid blood, also clots, were seen. The right tube of normal aspect; the ovary not enlarged, but on its surface is a small ulceration from which blood is constantly oozing. On the left side the adnexa are enlarged; the ovary is cystic, but there is here no hemorrhage. During the man- ipulation incident to the ablation of the right ovary, a bean-sized body, resembling a blood clot, is expelled from this ulcerated area on the ovary and lost in the abdominal cavity. The tube and ovary were re- moved. Peritoneum drained. Good recovery. The ovary is a little enlarged. On its free border is an ulceration, and at its edge is a clot. The cavity is circular in shape, 3 or 4 mm. in diameter, and from 2 to 3 mm. in depth. Several parallel sections made through the ovary demon- strate the presence of some corpora albicantia. No corpora lutea are visible. At the microscopical examination it was seen that ovarian tissue was present in the walls of the cavity. On the inner side lutein cells are visible in large numbers. This field of lutein cells is divided into irregular spaces by bundles of vessels. No trace of infiltration with blood. In the bottom of the cavity is a conglomeration of cells and fibrin. Chorionic villi are to be seen in the walls of the cavity. Fetus not found. Tube not examined. Comment on this case is almost superfluous, except that it cannot be accepted as a case of proved ovarian pregnancy. Shickele (Hegar's Beitraege z. Geburts and Gyn., XI, 1907).—IV-para, 28 years old. After her menses had been absent about seven weeks, she bled profusely for several days, during which time shreds and a piece of skin were passed. For the next two weeks she had pains in the lower abdomen. She bled again for three days. She never had any symptoms of faintness or collapse. On admission to the hospital a diagnosis of left-sided tubal abortion with hematocele was made. On opening the abdomen a few coils of small intestine are seen to be adherent to the crest of a soft, dark blue sac, which lies behind the uterus and appears to completely fill the true pelvis. On the left side, the normal-appearing tube is seen on top of the sac, passing along in an undulating manner. At the right edge of the sac the normal right tube and ovary are visible. The attempt is made to loosen the sac from its light attachments to the wall of the pelvic peritoneum. In lifting it to the abdominal incision, the sac bursts and a considerable quantity of old blood coagula escape. The sac is now brought forward and with the left tube and left ovary, which lies above it, clamped and removed. Vaginal drainage. Closure of abdomen. The woman recovered. At no point can chorionic villi be found within the blood-mole. On the contrary, the villi are free within the blood masses No trace of decidual formation is evident anywhere. The corpus luteum is filled with sero-sanguinolent fluid; no connection exists between this