MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. DEFORMITIES ACCOMPANYING THE DYSTROPHIES. All sorts of reducible deformities make their appearance. There may be complete valgus, varus, equinus, etc., all of which when corrected reappear when left alone (see Fig. 6). There is also ptosis of almost the entire abdominal viscera, due to the deformed back and pelvis. With all this the vegetative organs do not seem to suffer, and the appetite as well as digestion is good. In one of our patients there was often an extraordinary ravenous .appetite. The contractures recurring with dystrophy and the deformi- ties that thereby result have been much discussed and by many writers. Erb maintains that the weight of the hyper- trophied muscles is responsible in many cases for these contrac- tures. Hoffa offers the mechanical theory of muscle antagonism. The contractures are present in the non-paralyzed, because the in- tact muscles are out of function. Friedreich thinks that the con- tractures are due to the hypertrophy, and later the contracture of interstitial connective-tissue which has a tendency to contract. Landouzy and Dejerine expressed the opinion that the occur- rence of contractures was pathognomonic of the infantile type. Raymond, in discussing the deformities occurring in the upper extremities, endeavored to show that the muscles, i.e., the biceps and brachialis anticus appear slightly strained and thus produce contractures at the elbow. This last statement was contradicted by Erb, who saw the contractures in only about 35% of his cases. Hahn analyzed 67 cases in which the various types of dystrophy are represented. He comes to the following con- clusions: Contrary to Landouzy, Dejerine and Raymond, the least number of contractures occur in the infantile type. The greatest number of contractures he finds in the pseudo-hyper- trophic form. The most frequent form of deformity is pes equinus and equino-varus, drop-foot, permanent flexion of the large toe. Ankylosis may be a final stage of these contractures. Next to the foot deformities come the permanent flexions of the knee, and then flexions at the hip. Hahn further reports two cases in which the contractures appeared as the first symptom of the disease. He finds that the contractures are an important item in the differential diagnosis. Contractions often appear in the so-called sclerotic type, and