THE SURGICAL TREATMENT OF " UNRESOLVED PNEU- MONIA." BY SAMUEL LLOYD, M.D. • Professor of Surgery, Post-Graduate Medical School; Visiting Surgeon Post-Graduate Hospital and Babies' Wards. Unresolved pneumonias are frequently spoken of by medical men without any very satisfactory explanation of the rea- son why the pneumonia persists instead of pursuing its natural course and undergoing resolution at the usual time. Jackson, in the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal some two or three years ago, in studying this subject called attention to the fact that an unresolved pneumonia very seldom exists, and Musser says he has never seen a case to which he could apply this term. On the other hand, a good many writers have re- ferred to the persistence of pneumonia and have described the symptoms without giving any explanation of the pathological conditions that seem to fully explain the symptoms. Increasing experience with any operative technique neces- sarily gives the operator better judgment in dealing with the conditions, enabling him to observe closely and accurately con- ditions -which would be overlooked by the inexperienced. It has fallen to my lot within the past twenty years of active service in the wards of the Post-Graduate Hospital, to operate upon about 500 cases involving the removal of ribs and the opening of the pleural cavity, and yet it is only within the past two or three years that I have reached any possible explanation of the socalled unresolved pneumonias. One of the first cases to come under observation after I had be- gun to suspect what might be an explanation of the condition, was. a man 47 years of age who, some years before, had been admitted into St. Francis Hospital with a pneumonia which had failed to re- solve, and who was finally supposed to have tuberculosis involving the lower lobe of the right lung, although no tubercle bacilli were found in his sputum. As he had proven a reliable ward attendant, he was retained in the hospital for several years, having occasional attacks of pain, fever, and depression which