COMPLICATED MASTOIDITIS. 2 Aural Examination.—In the right auditory canal was found a bloody serous discharge, which, upon removal, disclosed a bulging drum-membrane with a small opening in it just above the region corresponding to the Eustachian entrance to the middle ear. The postero-superior canal wall was in a state of prolapse, hiding from view the postero-superior quadrant of the drum-membrane. Pressure over the right mastoid caused the patient to cry out with great pain, but upon further investiga- tion it was found that pressure upon the other mastoid, or any part of the skull brought forth a like response. The left ear was negative. A diagnosis of mastoiditis with meningitis was made and an immediate operation advised as the only prob- able means of saving his life. It was explained to his family that in his present condition, recovery following operation was extremely doubtful. They, however, requested that every effort be made to save his life, and within an hour he was re- moved to the Post-Graduate Hospital and prepared for opera- tion. A smear from the right auditory canal was taken to the laboratory for examination, and a report quickly given that the infection was that of the diplococcus intracellularis menin- gitidis. A differential blood count also was made, which showed a polynuclear percentage of 94, with a leucocyte count of 11,600. Operation.—Chloroform was given, and the usual mastoid in- cision made. When the flaps were retracted, the external cortex was found to be very dark, almost black in color. Upon open- ing the mastoid it was found infiltrated throughout with a thin, colored serum, with here and there a cell containing thin milky-looking pus. The large medullary spaces posterior to the sigmoid groove contained the same characteristic pus and serum as that found through the mastoid proper. The bone comprising the zygomatic ridge was extremely cellular and found infiltrated, and was removed in its entirety from a point well forward anteriorly to a considerable distance further back than where the sinus passes transversely toward the torcular, this removal exposing necessarily the entire floor of the middle fossa in this region. The dura thus exposed was bulging and showed an intense redness over its whole area. It was found impossible to remove all the diseased bone without making a transverse incision posteriorly, and when divested of its bony covering the entire descending limb of the sigmoid sinus as well