266 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. opinion and position of the distinguished authors would have more weight in this direction than the evidence brought forward in support of this claim. Futh (1902).—This was a woman, 25 years old, who alleged that she was pregnant for the first time. Later, however, she admitted that there was a possibility of her having been impregnated three years before. Laparotomy disclosed a lithopedion in the left kidney region. This fetus corresponded to one of about five months. The uterus and left adnexa were normal. The right tube appeared to be normal, but was not examined microscopically. A fist-sized tumor was seen in the loca- tion of the right ovary. The above-mentioned tumor consisted of a main mass connected by a thick pedicle to the smaller mass, which was later shown to be the right ovary. The petrified fetus was everywhere adherent to the great omentum. Its cord could not be found. The larger of the two masses was apparently a partly calcified placenta which had become attached to the right ovary. The latter was so well preserved that a well defined fresh corpus luteum was visible on its surface near the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube. In this case of lithopedion the original place of imbedding of the ovum must necessarily remain a matter of speculation. In the first place, it was found in the left kidney region extensively adherent to the great omentum. It is supposed to have been at first attached to the right ovary. It, therefore, had to travel some distance before becoming attached in its new quarters, at the furthest possible point from its original location. Secondly, there is no evidence brought forward that the ovary had any part in the formation of the gestation-sac. On the contrary, it is stated that the mass which was looked upon as a partly calcified placenta, was attached to the well-preserved ovary by a pedicle. At best, therefore, if this case must be interpreted as one of ovarian pregnancy, it might, perhaps, have been one of secondary implantation on top of the ovary, and in that case not a true ovarian pregnancy at all. That the Fallopian tube on that side was not examined microscopically, is very unfortunate,, because by reason of this omission one cannot positively deny the existence of signs of pregnancy in that tube. With such very important data missing, we can neither affirm nor deny the presence of ovarian pregnancy in a given case. This seems to be precisely the situation here. Micholitsch (1903).—This author reports two cases: one operated on by Professor Wertheim of Vienna, and the other one by himself. Case I.—A I-para 32 years old was operated on per vaginam. The