42 FIBROID DEGENERATION OF THE APPENDIX. dices can be kept apart is this: With fibroid degeneration of the appendix there is gradual replacement of all structures of the appendix, but nerve filaments persist longer than other structures, and these persisting nerve filaments, irritated by the contraction of the hyperplastic connective tissue, cause per- sistent local and reflex disturbance. The scarred appendices, on the other hand, lose nerve filaments along with other struc- tures,- as a result of the general toxic destruction of cells at times of acute infection. Consequently, the scarred appendices do not cause in the intervals between attacks, the set of symp- toms which are so persistent and so characteristic in cases of fibroid degeneration of the appendix. I would prefer to be- lieve, with Ribbert; that fibroid degeneration of the appendix is a menace and provocative of acute infective attacks, because it would then allow one to advise operation in practically all of these cases. From my present point of view, however, it seems best to advise against operation in most cases of fibroid degeneration of the appendix, provided that the patient can get along comfortably, in cases in which there is no disturbance be- yond a sense of discomfort in the region of the appendix. Many people with fibroid degeneration of the appendix apparently do not suffer in any wa3^. A certain number of the patients suffer merely from a sense of discomfort in the appendix region.. They are inclined to press upon that region with the hand, or to lean against the edge of a table or chair, and they go to the doctor to ask if they have appendicitis. A very large class of patients includes those who, in addition to a sense of discom- fort in the appendix region, have occasional attacks of sharp pain, or who suffer from various disturbances of function of the bowel. It is probable that irritation of nerve filaments in the contracting connective tissue of these appendices causes reflex irritation of the intimate ganglia of the bowel wall (Auer- bach's plexus and Meissner's plexus), with consequent derange- ment of function of secreting and excreting organs. Fibroid degeneration of the appendix is, perhaps, the most common single cause for so-called intestinal dyspepsia. It seems to be at least the most commonly overlooked cause. Fibroid degen- eration of the appendix is a potent factor in many cases of neurasthenia. In making this statement, I wish it to be clearly understood that I am perfectly familiar with the complex