NEURITIS. 23- Case VII.—-A woman, about 43 years of age, was taken ill with some kind of fever. She was not under my observation at the time, and I cannot give a more detailed description of her illness. Previous to the illness it was known that she had a sub-normal temperature. She had had a sub-normal tem- perature for many weeks. During this period of sub-normal temperature she was known to have putrefactive products in the urine continuously. Two or three weeks after her recovery from the fever she developed pain and numbness in both feet. This gradually extended up to the knees, and numbness and pain likewise appeared in both hands. She had never had rheumatism, nor had she at this time any symptoms of rheuma- tism. The urine was highly charged with putrefactive products- when I saw her six weeks ago. She is still under treatment, The putrefactive products are disappearing from the urine,, but the neuritis has not improved to an appreciable extent. Case VIII.—A man, 44 years of age, who used tobacco and alcohol in moderation, and who had never had rheumatism or any serious illness in years, consulted me for pain, which had been present for two months, and which he stated began in both feet, extended up the calf of the legs to the knees, and the back of both thighs. He presented the general symptoms of neuritis in both legs. He complained of a little pain and slight numbness in the fingers of both hands. There was muscular weakness in both legs, but not in the hands. There was a great excess of putrefactive products in the urine. The patient is still under treatment. The toxins are disappearing from the urine and the neuritis is gradually subsiding. Case IX.—A man, 58 years of age, had trouble for a year before I saw him with pain in the right leg, which was practically continuous. It had begun in the foot and had gradually ex- tended until it involved the whole leg. Six months after the pain developed in the leg he began to experience pain in the left shoulder and arm. This had gradually increased in activity until at the time I saw him it was quite severe. There was no- muscular weakness that could be appreciated. There was ten- derness of the nerve trunks and tactile anesthesia. He had in former years been what he called a " free liver," indulging quite extensively in liquor and tobacco, but of recent years he had been extremely moderate in the use of both. He had never