HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. LO has existed for any length of time, the nervous system suffers, and to the symptoms caused by the chronic poison must be added those of the neurasthenia, or will. This, at times, complicates the symptom-complex, and only experience and a thorough knowledge of the history of the case and of the conditions in question will permit one to say whether the complex of symptoms so frequently met with in these cases is due to the hepato-intestinal-toxemia, or to the neurasthenia; at times, indeed, the so-called " vicious circle " stands boldly in evidence, and it is quite impossible to decide this question. The patients state that their condition is one of con- stant ill-health, with certain periods when they feel par- ticularly bad; or else, they feel in good health for a few weeks, or possibly months, and then come attacks which render them wretched for a longer or shorter period. In other words, their condition is a remittent or an intermittent one. In the inter- mittent cases the onset of the attack may be preceded by a twenty-four hour period of what may be termed hypereuphoria,. if such a term may be used to express an especially marked feeling of " bien etre "—a period when the patient feels more than ordinarily buoyant and energetic, with an increase in appetite and a desire to be up and doing. Undoubtedly, in such cases this is the first effect of the toxemia, a stimulation seen before the secondary symptoms begin. This period of hypereuphoria may be altogether absent. The following symp- toms then become manifest, at times one and again another being in primary evidence: An indescribable discomfort in the right, upper, abdominal quadrant. It is not a pain, nor is there any particular spot which in this region is very sensitive to pressure; yet the patients frequently complain that they feel as if they wished to " get away from something " in this region, and at times they will exert deep manual pressure over this area in order to see whether, by so doing, this peculiar discomfort can by this means be relieved. It would seem that, possibly, a mild duodenitis exists in such cases. Be this as it may, this symptom is a fairly constant one and may precede all other symptoms by twenty- four hours, or even somewhat longer. At times, however, this symptom is altogether lacking. Circulatory and respiratory disturbances may be absent, slight or severe. Very frequently dizzy sensations are present,.