298 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. tiation of the genital canal into uterus and vagina does not occur until much later. Kussmaul places it at the end of the third month, although Dohrn could not locate the cervix until the fifteenth or sixteenth week. The lower edge of the tube, which later is the site of the hymen, is situated and opens into the sinus-urogenitalis. The hymen makes its appearance about the beginning of the nineteenth week and is originally a simple projection at the posterior wall of the introitus. This is the normal condition in the embryo; so that by the fourth or fifth intra-uterine month the genitals have reached their completed development (Breisky). Nagel, using the above embryological data as a basis, made the claim that congenital absence of the vagina could not occur with complete development of uterus, tubes and ovaries; that where such occlusions exist, they are the result of a membranous formation which takes place after the completed development of the vagina in the later months of pregnancy or after birth;, that it is the result of adhesion of opposite vaginal folds and due to the absence of the superficial layer of epithelium; and that such tissues may contain connective-tissue, muscle fibres and blood-vessels, because the vaginal folds are usually supplied to the very periphery with blood-vessels. Hence, he concluded that these cases must always be the result of acquired atresia. Veit went further. He claimed that the presence of an hematosalpinx in such cases was proof of infection in the genital tract and, hence, reasoning backwards, that the atresiae- were necessarily acquired and not congenital. He claimed, in addition, that not only was this the case in the single genital canal, but that in cases of blood-retention in the double genital canal, the atresia was not necessarily congenital and, when with associated hematosalpinx, must be always acquired. The Nagel-Veit theory received wide recognition throughout the medical world by the leading writers on gynecology—es- pecially in Germany. Thus Robert Meyer, Breisky, Zweifel, Gebhard, Pick, Pincus and a host of others accepted the theory. Pincus, in fact, wrote an exceedingly voluminous and interesting monograph on the " Practical and Important Questions Depend- ent on the Nagel-Veit Theory " (Sam. Klin. Vortrage, 1901, p. 219). Within recent years there has been considerable opposi-