178 UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. invariably cleared up on a free escape of mucopurulent secre- tion, which he expectorated in considerable abundance. Finally, it was determined that he had an encapsulated empyema. This was operated upon and drained, leaving a sinus in the lower part of the chest—about the 8th rib—from which there was a more or less constant discharge of muco-pus. Although I had seen him around the wards for several years and had known that from time to time he had these periods when he was confined to bed, I supposed it was an ordinary tubercular case and that nothing could be done for him except the ordinary routine treatment which he carried out himself. About two years ago, however, the sister in charge of the surgical ward asked me to see him with a view to determining whether he could be improved. I then found that whenever he had these attacks of illness, the external sinus had closed and his temperature, pain, and cough returned and persisted until the sinus was reopened or he coughed up a large quantity of pus. I operated upon him, removing about three inches of the 7th and 8th ribs, gaining free access to a cavity in the pleura about the size of an ordinary orange. In examining the pulmonary surface, I was able to make out a depressed sinus dipping forward into the lung and opening into a cavity about the size of an English walnut. . Irrigation of this cavity allowed the fluid to run through the bronchus into the mouth, demonstrating the fact that he undoubtedly had a pyopneumothorax; the pus in the pleural cavity was localized by adhesions between the pleurae, and the bronchus terminated in a small abscess cavity in the lung itself. I immediately broke down the adhesions between the pulmonary and the parietal pleurae—making sure that the lung remained in full expansion by the method which I shall describe later and which has been published in the Annals of Surgery, March, 1907—and then cut away the external wall of the pulmonary abscess, curetting the remainder of the cavity with a sharp spoon to make sure that no limiting mem- brane was left to interfere with the proper cicatrization of the pulmonary tissue. This patient made a complete recovery and left the hospital. A second case was one I operated upon in the Post-Graduate Hospital about a year ago and reported in a paper published in the Medical Review of Reviews, February, 1907. This child