424 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC CONSTIPATION. of short duration. Owing to this fact, it is necessary in cases of chronic constipation complicated by autointoxication, to renew the water supply as often and in such amounts as may be indicated in the individual case. Under ordinary circumstances, where water is drunk to relieve or cure constipation, the temperature should be about 70° in mild, and from 60° to 65° in obstinate cases. It should never be ingested at a temperature below 50°, except when the slug- gishness of the bowel is complicated by fever or in hypopepsia, etc., or in amounts more than a third of a glass every few hours. When chronic biliousness and autointoxication are present, a glass and a half of cold water, taken in the morning on an empty stomach, stimulates the stomach, liver and gastro- intestinal tract, and in this way helps to regulate the stools and eliminate toxins from the bowel. Drinking of warm and moderately hot water should be dis- couraged in persons afflicted with chronic habitual (atonic) costiveness, for the reason that a lethargic state and infrequent evacuations are induced through its sedative and relaxing action. Water at a neutral temperature of 96° to 100° acts the same way, but to a less marked degree. Very hot water (125° to 140°), stimulates peristalsis, but, owing to its harmful effect upon the stomach, it should not be employed except in cases of con- stipation complicated by hypopepsia, gastrosuccorrhea, and gastralgia; and then only when swallowed quickly and in small quantities. From what has been said, it may be inferred that the tem- perature of water should be selected for constipated subjects with the greatest care, in order that the full effects of this hydriatic procedure may be obtained in the treatment of the various types of costiveness. To emphasize this fact and to recapitulate, it may be stated that drinking of cold water is advisable in chronic atonic constipation, for the reason that it stimulates the local and general circulation; improves meta- bolism and assimilation; favors elimination of toxins of all kinds through its effect upon the skin, liver and kidneys; in- creases peristaltic action; renders the nervous mechanism more responsive; causes a more abundant secretion of mucus for lubricating the bowel; softens the feces, preventing fecal im- paction; augments gastrointestinal digestion, and in other ways