THROMBOPHLEBITIS OF THE SIGMOID SINUS. 47 the old wound was laid open, and then the internal jugular vein exposed; the latter was found to be much infiltrated and, upon incising it, pus escaped; following its course downward, it proved to be occluded by a thrombus which reached down to the spot where the common facial enters the jugular vein. It was most interesting to observe how, in the facial vein and the central portion of the jugular, circulation was maintained, the tip of the thrombus being constantly washed by the lateral current. It was evident that any moment infectious material could be carried off, which, after passing through the heart, was bound to produce septic embolic pneumonia with pleurisy. Hence, the jugular vein was ligated below this place and ex- tirpated up to the jugular foramen, from which the but slightly adherent thrombus could be removed by means of forceps. The sigmoid sinus having been exposed before, it was now easy to irrigate the intra-cranial part of the vein and thus clear the entire tract of infectious material. The large wound was tamponed and allowed to heal from the bottom. The patient made a good recovery from the operation, but three weeks later he developed an effusion into both pleural cavities, with symptoms of embolic pneumonia and accompany- ing pyemic fever. It was apparent that, in spite of the ligature of the vein within a healthy area, the inflammation had pro- gressed, thus producing this alarming complication. The. pleural cavities were tapped several times and considerable turbid serum withdrawn. However, after weeks of serious illness and under careful nursing, the patient recovered, there remaining a large cavity in the region of the right mastoid, which, in July, 1900, necessitated further operating. The bone was laid open and a granulating mastoiditis found; the wound was deepened as far as disease was discernible, but the antrum was not reopened. Later, the granulating surface was covered with Thiersch's grafts, all of which took nicely. About a month later the upper part of the grafts gave way and a sinus again appeared. In this condition the patient was seen by a number of ear specialists until, finally, he came again under my care, and, with the assistance of Dr. Toeplitz, the regular Stacke operation on the mastoid was done; the same proved entirely successful. The patient completely cured, could be presented before the N. Y. Surgical Society on April 24, 1901.