140 PERITONITIS. but never in the adhesive or dry form. The latter form gives the more unfavorable prognosis. The employment of X-rays seems to be beneficial in this form of peritonitis. The most frequent peritoneal inflammation that a gynecolo- gist comes in contact with is that form limited to the pelvic peri- toneum, which, in contradistinction to the other varieties of peritonitis, is called pelveo-peritonitis. Here, too, a division into acute and chronic pelveo-peritonitis suffices for clinical purposes. It is especially important for us to recognize these localized peritoneal inflammations, because with the employ- ment of improper therapeutic measures they are liable to be transformed into diffuse peritonitis. As a rule, pelveo-peritonitis has its beginning from an infection of the pelvic organs, gonorrheal infection playing a most important part in its production. A gonorrheal salpingitis leads in most instances to a more or less extensive inflammation of the pelvic peritoneum and an agglutination of the Fallopian tubes with the adjacent pelvic peritoneum. The tubes become adherent to the ovaries, uterus, intestines, and omentum. The cause of the more intense pelvic inflammation is the escape of some infectious secretion from the fimbriated extremities of the tubes into the pelvic cavity. While in the beginning the adhe- sions are not firm, in later stages they may become so firm as to re- quire considerable force to separate them. We may have as the result of such inflammation only an agglutination of the pelvic organs with each other, or also with the structures lying in the pelvis; or we may have the production of an exudate in the pelvis. Such exudate may be serous, sero-purulent or purely purulent, then forming a pelvic abscess. In the exudative form of pelveo-peritonitis, in which strepto- coccus or staphylococcus infection is usually present, the forma- tion of a retro-uterine tumor may be prevented if there has ex- isted a previous chronic pelvic inflammation which has caused the cul-de-sac of -Douglas to become wholly or partially obliterated. If the exudate is large, the uterus is pushed upward, and the vaginal portion of the cervix will be found near the symphysis. The posterior vaginal wall then bulges downward, its base in some instances reaching almost to the vulva. The pelvic pain in instan- ces of a large exudate is sometimes excruciating. Rectal tenemus is a marked symptom, as is also the passing of mucus of a glairy