FIBROID DEGENERATION OF THE APPENDIX. 41 Senn first called attention to the subject in an article published under the title of " Appendicitis Obliterans " in the Journal of the American Medical Association, March 24, 1894. He does not present a detailed study of the changes taking place in the appendix, nor does he offer an explanation for the symptoms, but states that the most constant symptoms are relapsing acute exacerbations of inflammation of short duration, with persistence of soreness and tenderness in the region of the ap- pendix during the intermissions. He advises removal of appen- dices which are becoming obliterated, on the ground of the prolonged suffering which must ensue if the cases are left to nature. In 1902, Ribbert, in his " Lehrbuch der speciellen Pathologie " on page 319, describes the appendix as an organ which, by reason of its uselessness, begins at an early period to undergo involution. With a lumen completely pervious in youth; it gradually becomes obliterated, so that after sixty years of age over 50 per cent, of cases show total or partial obliteration. Ribbert believes that it is the gradual effacement of the lumen which is largely responsible for the various forms of inflamma- tion of the organ. My observation leads quite to the contrary conclusion, and it is my belief that with gradual disappearance of the structures which are involved in acute infection pro- cesses, the tendency to such processes disappears. Further, an appendix which is undergoing fibroid degeneration seems to remain in a condition of irritation which calls out constant pro- tection against infection, and it is my belief that the patients who suffer most often from the symptoms attending fibroid degeneration of the appendix are really the ones who are best protected against infective invasions of the organ. My con- clusion has been disputed by surgeons who called attention to the fact that fibrous tissue was found in appendices which they had removed, and which were at the time the seat of acute intrinsic infection. My answer is, that in this particular class of cases, the fibrous tissue appears to represent scar tissue, re- sulting from the distinctive inflammation of previous acute attacks of infection. Such, at least, has been the history in my cases frequently enough to allow me still to keep the scarred appendices out of the class of fibroid degeneration of the ap- pendix. The reason for the belief that the two kinds of appen-