4< 5 PYURIA IN WOMEN. the cystoscope is unsatisfactory, and at times impossible. Where a neighboring abscess is discharging into the bladder, the point of communication can be determined through a cystoscopic examination. When the inflammatory process is above the bladder, and the source of the pus has not been located by other methods of examination, cystoscopy and ureteral catheterization furnish most valuable aid. Frequently the appearance of the ureteral dis- charge, the ureteral mouth and the surrounding bladder mucous membrane are sufficiently characteristic to enable one to diag- nosticate the origin of the pus, and at times the type of lesion present without ureteral catheterization. When pus is descend- ing from the kidney in large amounts, it can be seen escaping from the ureter either as a very turbid spurt, or, when there is little urine from the kidney of that side, as a small rope of pus that reminds one of sausage passing from the grinding machine. The urine from the ureter can often be collected direct through the Kelly speculum that has its distal end cut away obliquely. In pyelitis of any severity, there is pouting of the ureteral meatus, and enlargement of its lumen at times. When there is injection of the bladder mucous membrane around the mouth of the ureter, and especially when this is combined with a patulous, displaced, and ulcerated meatus, a destructive lesion of the kidney can be diagnosticated ; the added presence of tubercle bacilli in the urine completes the diagnosis of destructive tuberculosis of the kidney (Fenwick). When the amount of pus in the urine is small, it is often necessary to resort to ureteral catheterization to determine from which kidney it arises. The inflammatory diseases of the kidney, or those accompanied by pus, are catarrhal pyelitis, suppurative pyelitis, pyelo-neph- ritis, pyo-nephrosis, and abscess of the kidney. In all these the thought of stone or tuberculosis must be constantly present, and with these eliminated, search should be made for evidence of back pressure in the kidney, either from obstruction to the urethra or to the ureter. While we do have cases of hema- togenous infection of the kidney, a large majority follow reten- tion of urine in the kidney pelvis. Among the causes of ureteral constriction may be mentioned the kink frequently occurring in movable kidney; pressure of the fibroid or pregnant uterus; ovarian cystomata; prolapse of the uterus; involvement of the