423 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC CONSTIPATION. intervals (one or two hours) than when the same amount of water is consumed at two or three draughts. Water is but slightly absorbed in the stomach; consequently, when taken in considerable quantities it is retained and inter- feres with digestion, distends the stomach, and, by its weight, causes sagging of this organ, favoring gastroptosis and enterop- tosis—conditions which aggravate the constipated state. Ordi- narily, constipated subjects should drink from one glass to a glass and a half of water on arising, and lesser amounts at short intervals during the remainder of the day. The pernicious habit of drinking several glasses of iced-water at meal time is very detrimental to health, because the water washes the food down before it is properly masticated, dilutes the stomach contents, interferes with the circulation, diminishes gastric secretion, and in other ways interferes with the digestive process. This eventually leads to indigestion, dilatation of the stomach, constipation, and a host of other ailments. On the other hand, drinking of cool or cold water in moderation has a healthy influence upon the alimentary tract and other organs. Drinking of cold water is contraindicated in colic; in the treatment of very old and feeble persons; in gastric ulcer, arteriosclerosis, persistent anemia, diseases of the kidney, and in persons who are fatigued or overheated from any cause. Cool water produces a general tonic effect and stimulates the intestinal musculature and mucous glands to greater activity. Ingestion of warm water has an opposite effect. It soothes and quiets the alimentary tract, relieves irritation and pain, and diminishes or arrests enterospasm. Copious water-drinking favors the elimination of ptomains and poisons resulting from putrefying food and other causes; it softens the feces and in various ways improves the condition of patients suffering from constipation. The beneficient effect of water in constipated subjects is due as much, if not more, to its thermic as to its mechanical and solvent action. In persons suffering from obstinate constipa- tion I have witnessed many cures following judicious water- drinking, and attention to diet and hygiene of the bowel, to- gether with efforts of the patient to secure an evacuation after the morning meal. The increased volume of blood following water-drinking is