THROMBOPHLEBITIS OF THE SIGMOID SINUS. 49 theless, feel inclined to state, that excision, though, desirable, is not absolutely necessary. Thorough cleaning of the large viscus of the vein may suffice, in many instances, and, perhaps, cause less disturbance in the system, than the loosening and excision of the trunk with the necessary ligation of the tributaries. It seems to me that the decision as to which course to pursue in the given case, should be made to depend largely upon the condition of the patient. When called upon to operate on these seriously sick patients, the thought suggests itself whether these complications, at least in the acute cases, could not be avoided by prophylactic measures, and in a sufficiently large proportion of cases to war- rant our advising such prophylactic treatment as a routine measure. The prophylactic treatment I have in mind, in this connection, is Bier's hyperemic treatment, which in cases of acute otitis media, with or without mastoiditis, has already had great triumphs. As in general surgery, medicine and other branches of medical science, here, too, Bier has been the path-finder. With the help of the well-known otologist, Professor Eschweiler of Bonn, he has proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, that by the prompt application of obstructive' hyperemia of the head by means of the elastic neck band, immediately after the onset of the symptoms of otitis media, the disease may often be controlled and further complications avoided. If an abscess has already formed over the mastoid, this is incised. But instead of draining it, suction treatment is ap- plied in addition to the neck constriction. The method is equally applicable to children. Here, too, the comfortable feeling of the little patients must be the index to the degree of constriction, to be employed. If they breathe, eat, drink and sleep well, we may know that the treatment is correctly applied. It is a frequent occurrence that the older children actually clamor for the reapplication of the bandage, as the headaches begin to return during the two hours in which the bandage is removed each day. Naturally, if examination of the drum membrane points to the presence of pus within the middle ear, paracentesis of the drum membrane must precede hyperemic treatment, one of the funda- mental rules in the carrying-out of Bier's treatment being, that