438 CICATRICIAL STRICTURE OF THE ESOPHAGUS. The treatment of the condition under consideration is usually difficult, always protracted, and is calculated to tax the patience and the ingenuity of the surgeon. The dangers attendant upon the forcible introduction of bougies, rapid instrumental divulsion, internal esophagotomy with sharp cutting instruments (on the plan of the urethrotome) are too well known to require either emphasis or repetition. The treatment which is recommended is as follows: 1st. In cases where cicatrization is not extensive, and where the stricture is yielding, the systematic passage of ordinary flexible bougies and the hollow-guide bougies will suffice to keep the esophagus patent and eventually overcome the tendency of the scar to contract. 2nd. Pervious strictures which do not yield readily to the ordinary divulsion methods should be treated by internal esophagotomy. This is best accomplished by the Dunham string esophagotome. The guide-bougie is passed through the stricture, and an olive larger than the stricture is engaged. By a sawing movement, the string chafes through the stricture without danger of hemorrhage. This procedure is to be repeated after a few days, until the lumen of the esophagus is of a satis- factory calibre. 3rd. In cases where the introduction of an instrument through the stricture is impossible—-if the patient can swallow water—it is possible to wash a thread through the stricture into the stomach. An ordinary drinking-tube, a thread, and a glass of water are all that are necessary to accomplish this result. A gastrostomy (temporary) should be performed and the thread drawn out through the gastrostomy wound. A double linen fish line should be attached to the thread'and drawn up through the esophagus into the mouth. With one of these lines, the wire spindle bougies of various sizes, should be drawn up, beginning with the smallest, until a spindle is arrested. Pulling the wire taut, thus putting the stricture on the stretch, the other fish line is pulled to and fro, until the stricture is chafed through and the spindle is allowed to pass upward into the mouth. The string should be left in place and the operation repeated a few days later until sufficient dilatation has been obtained. The string is then removed and the gastrostomy wound will heal spontaneously.