24 NEURITIS. had rheumatism. He appeared to be a man in excellent gen- eral health, well preserved. The urine was loaded with putre- factive products. The body temperature is generally sub- normal, ranging from 97° in the morning to a little above nor- mal at night. He is still under treatment, but as he shows little or no inclination to conform to dietary restrictions, there has been no appreciable improvement in his case. Case X.—A woman, about 70 years of age, who never used alcohol at all, and who had never had rheumatism, and had enjoyed excellent health for years, gradually developed a neuritis, beginning in both feet, which gradually extended until it assumed the form of the multiple type. Her temperature was sub-normal, and she had occasional febrile attacks. Putre- factive products were found in great excess in the urine, and continued so in spite of all forms of treatment which were in- stigated, both dietary and medicinal. The disease assumed a very severe form until there was almost absolute paralysis of all the voluntary muscles, except those of the face and neck, with atrophy and general anesthesia together with the other symp- toms of multiple neuritis. The treatment has been persisted in with indifferent result. She has been ill over a year, but for the past three months there has been gradual improve- ment. This was the most severe case that has come under my observation. Analysis of these cases will show that of the ten, eight oc- curred in men, and two in women, and that all of them were in persons of middle life or beyond. This is to be accounted for by the fact that men commonly eat more in proportion to their weight than women do, and would also seem to show that putrefactive toxins are either not prone to cause neuritis unless they have been more or less continuously present for many years, or else that as the body grows old it possesses less re- sistance to toxic influences. In most of the cases there had been immoderate indulgence in food for years, and in all of them I was able to ascertain that the patient had suffered from in- testinal indigestion for a long period before the neuritis showed itself. From a study of my cases I am not inclined to the belief that indol alone is a very toxic agent. It is probable that there are some nervous organizations, which may become diseased by