UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 183 a-days, I take the precaution to keep up full expansion, throughout the course of the operation. It is then often pos- sible to see a bulging on the surface of the lung indicating the abscess area, or to recognize even a small perforation in case it has already broken into the pleural space and produced empyema. All adhesions in the pleural cavity that interfere with full expansion of the lung should be thoroughly broken up. In making this statement I feel that I am on safe ground. The number of operators who avoid breaking down the adhesions around an empyema for fear of infection of the general pleural space is fortunately growing smaller every year, and it is now advocated and practiced by so many good observers, as is evi- denced in the current medical literature, that I do not consider myself called upon to defend this portion of the technique of my operation. A great deal of experimental work has been carried on in the last four or five years to develop some method of operating upon the lung without allowing collapse of that organ to take place. The cabinet devised by Sauerbruch, in Miculicz' clinic, at Breslau, and the work of Brauer, at Heidelberg, are well known; and in the Annals of Surgery, of February, 1908, there is an interesting paper on experimental surgery of the lungs, giving a preliminary report of thirty animal operations under positive pressure. All of this work is absolutely unnecessary if the proper technique is followed. Not only can the lung be made to expand in any human being, in spite of an opening in the chest wall, but it can be kept in full expansion throughout even a prolonged operation, or can be made to collapse at the will of the operator. We have been able to demonstrate this so many times during the past fifteen years in our clinics at the Post-Graduate Hos- pital and in my service at St. Francis, and so many men have seen the actual demonstration of the method, that I feel per- fectly safe in making this assertion in the emphatic way that I do. Unfortunately, all of this other experimental work is undertaken because the idea has become so fixed in the minds of the medical profession that if an opening is made in the chest wall larger than the diameter of the main bronchus, collapse of the lung must result. This is absolutely true if no pre-