378 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. to a right angle; further passive extension is possibls. The two inner fingers of the right hand can be extended actively to about 130° at both interphalangeal joints. The gross motor power of the right upper extremity is fairly good; of the left upper extrem- ity diminished in all its three divisions. The muscles of the back and abdomen normal. Difficulty in flexing and extending the left hip and left knee. Gross motor power diminished in the left, and good in the right lower extremity. Cranial nerves normal. Viscera: Presystolic murmur heard at oth interspace, in- ternal to midclavicular line, propagated upwards and to the left. Lungs and abdominal viscera normal. Atrophies.—Atrophy of the fingers of both hands, the left more than the right (is able to button and unbutton clothes The fingers of the left hand are flexed, but can be passively ex- tended. The left hand is much smaller than the right. Thenar and hypothenar musculature gone. The left wrist can be ex- tended and flexed. The musculature of the left forearm is wasted, and to a lesser extent of the left arm. The left lower extremity is about three inches smaller than the right. The musculature of the left foot, calf, peroneal group as well as the quadriceps of the left thigh is almost entirely wasted. The flexor muscles of the thigh are fairly well preserved. The gluteal muscles are wasted and the gluteal fold is absent. The small muscles of the left foot are almost entirely wasted and the toes cannot be moved actively but are moved passively. The left thigh is bent forward anteriorly. There is right hypo- tonia. Curvature of knee backward. The muscles of the right foot also are beginning to atrophy from below upward. The abductors and adductors of the left thigh are intact. No scoliosis but a lordosis is present with the convexity to the right. The scapulae are winged. The left supraspinatus is intact. The left triceps and biceps are beginning to atrophy. The flexor and extensor muscles of the left arm are fairly well atrophied as well as the small muscles of the left hand. Begin- ning atrophy of the small muscles of the right hand and fore- arm. Those of arm are well preserved. No sensory disturbances. No reaction of degeneration. Re- flexes on the left side are absent; on the right side diminished. No enlarged glands.