CHRONIC INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS. 175 usually found to be improper nitrogen metabolism and the seat of this fault is probably in the liver. To go a step further would be to claim that a hepatotoxemia exists. A clinical laboratory experience of about twenty years in private practice presents quite a number of cases from which specimens of urine were minutely examined, at longer or shorter intervals, over periods of 19 years, 15 years, 10 years and five years, and these examinations justify the belief that intestinal toxemia is also a potent factor in the etiology of the type of nephritis under consideration. Unfortunately, the available time did not permit search for records of all cases of chronic interstitial nephritis in which the condition of the urine has been followed for at least five years and including a period prior to the development of the evidences of an actual pathological lesion of the kidney. In one case 35 urine examinations have been made during the past 19 years. The early records show no abnormal features, the analyses having been made as a matter of precaution before anesthesia and before application for life insurance. Just ten years ago, with insignificant symptoms referable to the gastro-intestinal tract, the urine contained a large amount of indican and showed a disturbed sulphate ratio but no fault in nitrogen excretion. During the next two years three specimens were examined with the same result. For the following five years the urine presented evidences of a functional albuminuria, together with the indications of faulty metabolism noted. Three years ago the classical urinary picture of the disease—large daily amount, pale color, low gravity, deficient solids, traces of albumin and few casts—developed with the usual clinical symptoms. Since then the patient has given his condition the strict attention it should have had at an earlier date. Proper climate and mode of life have caused all evidences of toxemia to disappear, but the pathological process continues. It seems reasonable to assume that intestinal toxemia was the direct cause in this case. In one case observed over a period of 15 years the urine was normal for two years, presented evidences of faulty nitrogen metabolism without albuminuria for ten years, with functional albuminuria for two years and classical urine and symptoms of the disease for one year. Death resulted at the end of this time with positive autopsy record. Four cases, observed for ten years, presented evidences of