CARCINOMA OF THE HEART. 197 By extension, the neighboring organs may become involved, causing various complications. The following are some of the interesting cases in the literature illustrating this point: Biggs17 reported a case of carcinoma of the esophagus in a patient who had been unable to swallow food for six months. A bougie showed- a stricture 12 inches from the line of the teeth. Later, at operation, the stricture was found 3.5 inches from the cardiac orifice. The patient died from hemorrhage following rupture of the aorta, which was involved by the growth. At autopsy the growth was found to begin at the bifurcation of the trachea, extending 8 cm. below this point. There was an opening into the aorta, measuring 2 mm. in diameter. Davidsohn18 reports a similar case in which erosion of the aorta caused fatal hemor- rhage. The growth in the esophagus was at the point of crossing of the left bronchus. Adenot and Cadet19 described a case of esophageal carcinoma in which erosion of the growth caused an esophago-tracheal fistula, with resulting gaseous distention of the stomach. CARDIAC CARCINOMATA DESCRIBED IN THE LITERATURE. Boether20 collected 71 malignant tumors of the heart from the literature, which had been reported up to 1897. Among them were 40 carcinomata and 31 sarcomata. His tabulation of these cases is given below. He describes briefly the cases reported from 1866. The synopses of these cases are as follows: Buquoy21 described a case in 1866. The patient was a woman, aged 24, who died suddenly 15 days after admission to the hospital. At the autopsy the heart was found to be involved in a large tumor mass, so that the myocardium was almost entirely destroyed. The tumor had extended to, and penetrated, the wall of the left ventricle and projected into its cavity. On the mitral valves were fresh warty excrescences. This tumor was reported as a primary carcinoma of the heart, but this is not certain, for no microscopical examinations were made. Wyss22, in 1866, reported a case of a woman who died from severe marasmus six months after admission. The autopsy showed a flaky new formation on the epicardium of the right ventricle. The right auricle was encroached upon by a hemis- pherical tumor 3x4 cm. x 20 mm. arising from the posterior wall of the auricle, extending into the atrium. It had grown