132 PERITONITIS. nosis, because very often it will drop to 100° F., or even lower; but the pulse does not harmonize with the drop in temperature and continues to be rapid and feeble. The lowering of the tempera- ture is only temporary. Tympanitis is present and increases rapidly, so that the abdomen becomes ballooned. The abdomen is very sensitive to even the lightest palpatory touch, although when left alone the patients do not voluntarily complain of abdominal pain. The epigastric region imparts an elastic tensity to the touch; in this region the patients usually complain of a dis- tressing, burning sensation. The facial expression is quite char- acteristic; it is pinched, especially about the nose. The color is often that of one slightly jaundiced. They eyes have a sunken appearance and lose their normal lustre. The tongue and lips are dry and parched, and the tongue is of a brownish color in the center. Intense thirst is a marked symptom as long as the pa- tients are conscious; likewise frequent vomiting of brownish, bile- stained fluid. While obstinate constipation is present at first, later, perhaps only a few hours before death, profuse diarrhea may set in. Inability to empty the bladder spontaneously may be present very early, owing to paralysis of the bladder-wall from inflammation of its serous coverings. Hiccough, when present, is very obstinate and most distressing. Semi-con- sciousness and delirium are ominous symptoms of approaching death; the pulse is then frequently uncountable and almost imperceptible, and the rectal temperature very high, 106° F. or over. In these cases, while frequently we'have been unable to show streptococci in the blood during life, we could always demonstrate their presence in the blood of the heart after death. Colon bacilli were also of very common occurrence on the peri- toneal surface after death. During the first few hours the diagnosis is not always easy, because a severe septic endometritis may give similar symptoms; but it is not long before the diagnosis becomes clear, the peri- tonitis making rapid progress and thus clearing Up the case. The uterus in all these cases is large and soft in consistency. There is no foul discharge from the genital tract; unless, as is not infrequently the case, there is a mixed infection, so that a sapric infection is associated with the streptococcic infection. The decomposition of the remnants left in the uterus then causes a discharge of putrid odor. It is on this point that, so far as my