MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 383 of five years ago he has gradually become thinner, and his pre- sent illness apparently began at that time. He was easily thrown down in the street. After falling at one time was uncon- scious and had several fainting spells following this, which came on after any excitement. Since then his gait has become worse. Always had enuresis and often had to be excused from school- room. Frequent urination, 20-30 times daily. For the past three years the upper extremities have been weak and stiff, so that patient cannot comb his hair. No paralysis. Patient states that he has always seen double. Disposition always quiet, melancholic and nervous. Headache on arising. No rickets. Always had choreiform movements. Status.—Medium height, fairly well nourished. The shoulders and arm appear small. Stands on toes, heels rest about two inches from floor (right higher than left). Any attempt to put the heels on floor causes him to fall backward. Stands with broad base, feet turned out. Shoulders thrown back and ab- domen forward. Gait distinctly equinus. Raises the feet high and then slaps them down on the floor. Head brachiocephalic. Ears, large, red, flaring. Eyes: slight tremor of lids. Pupils equal and react. Both discs pale. Arteries prominent. Contour normal. Slight nystagmus in external positions. Visual fields normal. Mucous mem- brane of lips bleed readily; gums spongy. Teeth poor, irregular and degenerate. Tongue protruded straight, shows indentation of teeth; coarse tremor. Palate high, narrow, arched. Uvula long. Tonsils large, congested and slightly edematous. Re- flexes present. Flexion of head not possible; lateral move- ments restricted. Neck rather long. When the cervical spine is steadied the head can be turned from side to side and forward and backward, no flexion being possible, and he is prevented from making the slightest bowing motion. Carotids pulsate visibly on both sides. Atrophy of sterno-mastoid. Sterno- clavicular parts evidently separated. Muscles of upper chest atrophic; pronounced atrophy at shoulder girdle. Clavicular part of pectoralis atrophic. Scapulas flaring, left more than right. Heart: Apex beat visible; also slight epigastric pulsa- tions. Pulse 72. Arteries not thickened. Systolic murmur; rough second sound. Additional Status.—(Now 14 years old and no signs of puberty).