NEURITIS. 25 the long-continued poisoning with this substance. I believe, however, that skatol and butyric acid are much more powerful toxins, and that it was to the presence of these toxins and possibly to others more than to indol, that the neuritis was due. The sub-normal temperature, which existed in some of the cases, and particularly in Case I, was a well-marked symp- tom, and was undoubtedly caused by chronic intoxication of many years' duration. I am inclined to believe that these toxins are well borne by the nervous system for a long time, and that it is only in continuous poisoning by these agents that disease of the nervous system ensues. In the treatment of this condition a physician encounters a difficulty of considerable magnitude in having to subject his patient to a strict dietary which most of the patients do not wish to carry out. Almost all of my patients were hearty eaters, who enjoyed their food, and who found it exceedingly disagreeable to follow my direc- tions. In many instances there were relapses from indiscre- tions, which the patients' desire for rich food led them into. It is commonly believed that proteid foods are the ones con- cerned in the formation of putrefactive toxins; that this is so in the main is true, but it is quite clear to me that all forms of food, when eaten in greater quantities than the digestive fluids can digest, are capable of forming putrefactive poisons, which are deleterious to the human organism. I have, there- fore, insisted that all of my patients should eat small meals in which the proteid foods should form a very small proportion. To my mind, it is not so much a question of what the patient eats as it is how much he eats. I have found the best results follow when general food was given, but the quantity of food of any kind was limited to a very small amount. Most all people habitually eat, at least once a day, and frequently at all meals, not only much more food than they need, but much more than they can digest. In the latter case, putrefactive decomposition naturally follows. This may be obviated by giving only as much food as can be digested, and it is even better to give, for a time at least, even less than this amount. When this plan was followed every day for a number of days, the putrefac- tive products in the urine were invariably decreased, and in some cases entirely disappeared. In none of the cases did I confine the diet to sour milk in any of its forms, nor did I use