135 PERITONITIS. contended by some that the semi-sitting position is of no benefit; but experience has shown that peritonitis patients do better when it is employed, because secretions gravitate more readily toward the pelvis, and absorption into the system does not take place so readily from here as from the upper abdomen, close to the diaphragm. I have saved a few patients ill with this disease by proceeding with the radical operation, done sufficiently early. One should not wait too long, however, and be deluded by a fall of half a degree or a whole degree of temperature. I have tried in a few instances to shorten the time of operation by putting on clamps as far out on the parametria as possible and cutting out the uterus close to the clamps, leaving them in the abdomen, relying on the hemostasis as we do in vaginal extirpation of the uterus with clamps. But in one case the patient had a fecal fistula following the operation, which required a long time to heal, and I have, therefore, abandoned this method, despite the fact that it shortens the time of the operation from five to ten minutes. When the uterus is small, as after a criminal abortion, and such radical treatment seems indicated, the extirpation can be done through the vagina; but in full-sized puerperal uteri, the vaginal operation has not been satisfactory to me. I cannot do the work with sufficient rapidity; that is, within five minutes or less. It must be remembered that a prolonged anesthesia has a very detrimental effect on these patients. All antiseptic cleaning should be done before the anesthetizing is begun. Then only a little gas, followed by a few whiffs of ether or chloroform, will be required, especially if preliminary injections of scopola- mine and morphine are made. The shock following operation will then be almost nil. The general treatment, upon which a patient is put as soon as she comes under observation, consists of an intravenous infusion of saline solution, liberal alcoholic stimulation, ice-coil to the ab- domen, and trunk elevation. While I have used the silver prep- arations quite frequently, and also anti-streptococcus serum, I have not seen any benefit from such therapeutic measures, although I still use them despite my former unsatisfactory results. I believe that in time a serum will be found which will be satisfactory. In the still more chronic cases of peritonitis following delivery,