113 BIOLOGY IN INFANT FEEDING. essentially the same chemical changes in the same kind of food during digestion. As far as chemical transformation of the food elements are concerned, there seems to be a unity in all animals, young and old; but when the development of the digestive organs in which these chemical transformations take place is considered, it is found that, at the start, the digestive organs of all are very much alike. As the young animals grow, their digestive organs diverge widely in form and method of operation, until the vast differences found in the adults of the different classes of animals result. The stomach in most animals is rudimentary at birth and develops rapidly while receiving mother's milk; after natural weaning it has the form and function of the adult stomach of the species. It is known that milks of the different spe- cies are curded or clotted by the action of the gastric secretion of young animals, or by pepsin and acid, and it will be found by a study of comparative anatomy and physiology, that the mother's milk clots in a form that will act in developing the digestive tract of her young and hence in a form similar to that of the food in the fully developed digestive apparatus of the adult. Development of the digestive organs is as continuous as is the development of the exterior parts of the body. The digestive organs are not suddenly made over at weaning. It is idle to discuss whether the elements of one milk are more nutritious than those of another kind. The proteids, salts, fats, and carbohydrates of all milks are equally nutritious beyond a doubt, for the young of all species develop equally well on their mother's milk. It is only when the attempt is made to supply the food of one species to another that the question of nutritive value arises. As was stated before, it would be impossible to feed hay to a dog or meat and bones to a cow, but this same general principle is being applied when the milk of one species is fed to the young of another species, and the reason that it is not more disastrous is that the di- vergence in character of the food during the suckling period is not very great, and that the change in the solidity or dense- ness of the clotting of the milk in the stomach is regulated by the young animal's digestive secretions. By careful training, the stomach is taught to produce a secretion that will not form a too unnatural clot. The tendency of the animal to