MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 366 This theory was revised and elaborated, in 1903, by Gowers in his essay on " Abiotrophy," who considered it the result of defective vital endurance inherent in the embryonic tissue, from which the muscle-structure tissues arise. It has been further supported by Babinski and by Ananof, who have pointed out that those groups of muscles which develop simultaneously in the embryo are also simultaneously affected in dystrophy. This grouping of the affected muscles has also much diagnostic significance. Mosso considers the atrophy to be a manifestation of universal degeneration. In his 59 cases he found 18 imbeciles, 7 epileptics, 21 skeletal abnormalities, and 22 with trophic disturbances. We are unable to support Mosso's theory. There is, however, one peculiarity worth mentioning in this connection, and that is that in nearly every child with dystrophy, boy or girl, that we have examined, an abnormal growth of hair on the lower ex- tremities has been found. Age.—The disease is usually said to begin during the latter part of childhood. In our cases the ages varied as follows: 1 at birth, 9 at three years, 6 at five years, 8 at six years, 7 at seven years, 10 at eight years, 5 at ten years, 2 at thirteen years, 1 at seventeen years, 1 at thirty-two years. From this it is seen that the majority are attacked between the ages of six and eleven years—a time when the muscu- lature is especially in a state of development, as has been shown by Meek. Only one case so far, reported by Pick, has been observed in which the dystrophy began late in life. His patient was upward of 50 years old. Sex.—Males suffer more frequently from this disease than females. In our series, there were forty males and ten females. OCCURRENCES PRECEDING THE ONSET OF THE MYOPATHY. a. Acute Infectious Disease.—In 24 of our cases the disease was preceded by some exanthema, scarlet fever predominating; but this may mean absolutely nothing, for it represents probably the proportion of persons of this age that have the acute exan- themata. In one case, that of an Italian boy eight years of age, the disease followed some acute illness which was accompanied by convulsions and lasted two weeks. Immediately after the febrile stage was over the parents noticed that the child was weak and " staggered." This case was at first mistaken for