HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. 8 BY EDWARD QUINTARD, M.D. Professor of Medicine, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. During the past few years a number of cases have come under our observation which presented such a definite symptom- complex that, for clinical purposes, it seemed practical to view and treat them as a class. Previous to this we had observed, from time to time, individuals suffering from symptoms pres- ently to be described, but we had not observed a sufficient num- ber, nor were we prepared to make an attempt at classification. The classification, however, has been of such practical ad- vantage to myself and certain of my colleagues who have seen fit to adopt it, that it seemed expedient to give a preliminary survey of such cases which, according to our idea, should be placed under the category. At the outset we would state that the term hepato-intestinal- toxemia is a purely arbitrary one; a generic term, to be used for convenience until further and improved investigations and laboratory methods shall give us fuller and better knowledge and permit us to speak in specific terms. We, ourselves, have not been able to find a term in medical literature comprehending the symptom-complex in question. Under such terms as " biliousness," " autointoxication," " intes- tinal toxemia," etc., we find a certain number of cases resemb- ling those we are about to describe; but so far as we can judge, whether from omissions in the taking of histories, or from the lack of subsequent observations, the clinical pictures of such cases are vague and unsatisfactory. There seems to have been no attempt to classify them under a generic term or to depict a symptom-complex which would permit them to be so placed. In the present instance, we shall make no attempt to discuss the theory or origin of hepato-intestinal-toxemia. The purpose of this preliminary paper is a purely clinical one. We merely wish to present the symptom-complex of such cases. Without enter- ing into the etiology of these cases, we may state that sufficient clinical facts are in our possession to warrant the conclusion that the symptom-complex in question is due to a toxemia in conse-