220 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SURGERY OF ACUTE PAN- CREATITIS. BY FRANZ TOREK, M.D. Adjunct Professor of Surgery, New York Post-Graduate Medical School. Previous to the present decade the diagnosis of pancreatitis was rather rarely made except at autopsies. Since the time that the disease has been treated surgically, it has been recog- nized and described much more frequently, and at the present time physicians are beginning to become aware of the fact that pancreatitis is not so very rare. If we fail to diagnosticate an ailment, the reason most frequently is that it does not occur to us that there is such a disease. If it were generally appre- ciated that, when a patient is suddenly attacked with severe pain in the upper part of the abdomen, we must think of acute pancreatitis as one of the many possibilities, the disease would doubtlessly be recognized more frequently. The symptoms, however, are sometimes so urgent that there is no time to exhaust the means at our disposal to establish the diagnosis; we may often get no further than to say to ourselves that there is a severe affliction in the upper part of the abdomen, which requires prompt surgical interference. Delay in such a case, simply to gain time necessary for making a probable diagnosis, would not be in the interest of the patient. In this article I shall report three cases operated upon in 1907. One of these died, the other two recovered. In two the diagnosis was not made previous to the operation; in the third,'pancreatitis was considered to be very probable. Case I.—W. H., male, age 24 years; admitted to the German Hos- pital, May 20, 1907. Alcoholic history. Has had two previous attacks of abdominal pain, one six weeks ago, lasting one day, and one five weeks ago, lasting two days. Two days before admission he was taken sick with sharp, severe pain in the epigastrium, and he vomited. Later, the pain became more severe in the lower abdomen, but not especially over McBurney's point. Small movement of the bowels this morning. On examination we found a small-framed, fairly well nourished man, with a drawn facial expression, looking very sick. Pupils reacted to light and distance. Cervical lymph nodes enlarged. At the bases of the lungs flatness on percussion; no friction sounds. Heart negative. Liver