218 MENTAL DEFICIENCIES IN EARLY CHILDHOOD. This form of Jo-deaf-mutism, like genuine deaf-mutism, is not necessarily correlative with the degree of intellectual development of the idiotic children in question. Some idiots, e.g., microcephalics, may incoherently chatter for hours, and yet be no wiser than those who never utter a single word, since the intellectual capacity of the idiot depends upon the extent and location of the lesion in the brain. With few exceptions, idiots are unable to acquire, retain, associate or evolve ideas, reason, judge, or appreciate their personality, their actions or their surroundings. Instinctively they may cling to those who feed and take care of them, like animals obey their masters, after prolonged training perform certain actions, and even manifest a certain degree of reasoning power. In the majority of instances, however, their perform- ances are mechanical and automatic. They may for hours lie or sit in one position and indulge in certain movements, without by attitude or expression indicating the desire for a change, or even betraying any discomfort previous to or after the acts of defecation or urination. As compared with the different varieties of idiocy, intelligence is least allotted to the amaurotic idiot. Deprived of sight and hearing since early infancy, limp and languid as a result of the ever increasing atony of its musculature, the helpless creature gradually loses all its senses, and, fortunately, also its life. Microcephiles are nearly as badly endowed with intelligence as the former group, but their stupidity is not progressive in char- acter. As they grow older they are able to feed themselves, and with hearing intact they may learn to talk—talk without sequence or measure. Genuine microcephalic idiots are ob- stinate, vulgar, and brutal. Almost the exact opposite charac- teristics are observed in hydrocephalic idiots. They are or- dinarily soft, gentle, timid, sorrowful, but little impressionable or curious. As very marked cases of hydrocephalus usually succumb at birth or soon after, those surviving usually possess a greater degree of intelligence than microcephiles, nay, at times they may grow up to be perfectly normal. The mental im- pairment following meningitis, or encephalitis, varies with the extent of the brain lesion produced by the inflammatory pro- cess. Deaf-mutism, aphasias, and amaurosis being common sequelae, little intellectual capacity can be expected. In the