FIBROID DEGENERATION OF THE APPENDIX VERM- 40 FORMIS. BY ROBERT T. MORRIS, A.M., M.D. Professor of Surgery at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. Perhaps the time has come for elaborating the subject in such a way as to allow of classification of four rather separate and distinct kinds of appendicitis: 1. Cases of fibroid degeneration of the appendix. 2. Appendicitis with intrinsic infection. 3. Congestive appendicitis. 4. Appendicitis with extrinsic infection. This classification is a convenient one for practical use, even though we may not be quite ready to adopt it on a basis of scientific accuracy. Do these four kinds of appendicitis merge into one another? Fifteen years ago, I believed that Cases 1, 3 and 4 commonly merged into cases 2, but observation with reference to this point has had a tendency to disprove that idea, and to separate the different kinds of appendicitis from each other more and more. I am not unaware of the natural tendency for one to make fanciful classifications in any field of science, as one ob- serves, for instance, in the classification of certain sub-species and varieties in botany and in zoology. Nevertheless, it seems to be safe at the present moment to present facts bearing upon the matter of separation of appendicitis cases into four classes. Class I.—Cases with fibroid degeneration of the appendix are the most common, and yet the ones most frequently over- looked. Fibroid degeneration of the appendix probably sends a much larger number of patients to the doctor than does any other type of appendix trouble. The diagnosis of the condition is frequently made by some physicians, and is not made at all by most physicians, although in my own experience there are few diseases at the present time which send more patients to the doctor. Fibroid degeneration of the appendix may begin in childhood, but it is seldom productive of symptoms before the adult stage of life has been reached, and it is apparently most troublesome in individuals between the ages of 30 and 50.