HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 452 the part from mechanical irritation. Upon this layer cold com- presses are applied, wrung out of water at 50° to 70° F., to be removed whenever the pain increases. This means very often in the beginning, sometimes every minute, and subsequently at longer intervals. If a cooling coil is at hand, it may be used with water at a higher temperature, about 65 to 75° F. Extreme temperatures upon the burned area are irrational; so also are ice bags. If the hand and forearm or the lower part of leg are burned, it may be useful to apply ice in any form near the healthy part in addition to the local dressing. In burns of the first and second degree, this treatment will suffice. Blisters, if not too large, will be absorbed within one or two days, or may be now cleared away. During this time the pain first caused by the burn is entirely gone. In burns of the third degree, pus now begins to appear, and inflam- matory pain, with an inflammatory halo around the burned area, may arise. This is the time to remove the " primary layers," as I call them. Pieces of plain absorbent gauze, five to ten layers, according to the quantity of oozing, are now cut in shape and size, so as to cover exactly the burned region. The gauze is wrung out of an antiseptic solution, as detailed subsequently, placed upon the wound and covered with a soft impervious stuff, one inch or so larger than the gauze. The dressing is then fastened by a roller that presses the impervious cover at all parts against the healthy skin, in order to prevent drying of the wet gauze. This dressing has to be removed whenever pain arises or the gauze is saturated with pus. Instead of pervious covering and gauze roller, it may be preferable to apply over the wet medicated gauze a common wet compress (a towel wrung out of plain water) and covered with a woolen cloth or flannel—not with an impervious stuff. This applies, for in- stance, to burned fingers, where the medicated gauze is applied to each finger separately and the towel over the whole hand. PHYSIOLOGICAL REASONING. In burns, our task is a fourfold one. We have: 1. To relieve pain. 2. To combat the fatal results in extensive cases. 3. To prevent the patient from being injured by irrational manipulation; and 4. To cure the results of the burn.