348 FRESH AIR WORK FOR SURGICAL TUBERCULOSIS. inversely proportional to the extent and activity of the patho- logical process. Spinal cases gained somewhat less than others. The statistics convey an inadequate idea of the substantial gain in health and vigor of nearly all the children who go to Southampton. Dr. Ogilvy has shown that the opsonic index in these children is considerably higher than in similar cases in the city. Numbers of children were entirely cured of their joint disease during the summer, and were able to leave off their braces. These were, it is true, either cured cases who were still wearing splints as a precaution, or children who were nearly well when sent, but it is fair to say that convalescence was hastened. It should also be remembered that such results are regularly obtained in a large percentage of cases under mechanical treat- ment without the advantage of summer outings, and special fresh air therapy. Yet with all reservations the gain in vigor is marked and im- portant, and when the children return to their tenement homes at the end of the season, it becomes necessary to safeguard this gain already acquired. Even if an all-the-year-round hospital for convalescents and chronic cases were established, the disad- vantages of separating a child from its home life for long periods would be keenly felt, for it is probable that even a very poor home is in important respects better, except for short periods, than the most excellent institution. It was felt that the fresh air work must be carried into the tenements themselves as an aid both to the work of the summer home and that of the hos- pital and clinic. To meet this need the conditions in the New York tenement houses of our patients were studied; a fund was contributed by friends of the orthopedic ward of the Post-Graduate Hospital and of the Southampton Summer Home, and the experienced and interested matron of the Summer Home was engaged as a visiting nurse to do for our tuberculous joints in the tenements just what should be and has been done for pulmonary cases that cannot be sent away; and also to attend to necessary dressings, and keep the patients in touch with the surgeon, clinic and hospital. The following is the method of procedure. When a case of joint tuberculosis visits the clinic oris discharged from the hospital or summer home, the nurse visits the family, inspects the rooms, and makes a sociologic as well as a hygienic study