COMPLICATED MASTOIDITIS. 6 an English walnut into the mastoid cavity of the cerebellar tissue divested of its covering. This mass was very soft and pulpy, and was removed with the scissors down to its base, and a drain, composed of a wick of gauze, was introduced into the cerebellar tissue for about three-quarters of an inch. The wound was dressed each day only to find mass after mass of disintegrated cerebellar tissue protruding into the mastoid wound. Upon three different occasions these masses were in- cised freely with the scissors deep into the cerebellum, but in a few hours their place was taken by more tissue of a like char- acter. A further study of the chart will show that, for five days after the development of this encephalitis, there were wide and rapid variations of temperature, but no evidence of a chill was observed. On the seventh day following the second operation, the wound looked quite as unpromising as on the pre- vious days, and after incising and removing more cerebellar tissue, a cotton-tipped probe was dipped in a solution of silver nitrate, of the strength of 480 grains to the ounce, and the entire cerebellar cavity that was exposed was freely mopped with this application and a large amount of boric acid placed in the cavity, and on this a very loose dressing of gauze was applied. From this time on there was no protrusion beyond the surface of cerebellar tissue ; there was, however, an abundant slough as the result of this application. The cavity in the cerebellum began to fill slowly, so that at the end of ten days it was even with the surface, and each time the wound was dressed, an application of 360 grains to the ounce of silver nitrate was made, so that at the end of two and a half weeks the surface presented a rather firm cicatrix; and later, it protruded somewhat anteriorly, but always maintained its firm, scar-like appearance on the surface, and finally as the wound filled in, became covered with skin, and to all appearances, on palpitation and otherwise, became perfectly firm. The neck-wound healed without further complications, and one year after operation the hearing on the affected side was normal. The mastoid wound presents the usual post-operative appearance, with seem- ingly no more fulness than the average. The suture line in the neck, however, presented somewhat of a keloid appearance at this time. I think that there can be little doubt that this was a case of purulent meningitis, plus the other complications