411 AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. was hardened in alcohol of increasing strengths and embedded in celloidin. Sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin, Van Giesen's triple stain, Weigert's stain for medullated nerve fibres, and by several methods for Nissl's bodies. On microscopic examination the cornea, iris, ciliary body, lens, vitreous, choroid and vascular system of the eye appeared to be normal. In the optic nerve the connective tissue com- posing the septa was somewhat increased in amount, indicating a moderate degree of atrophy. The temporal half of the papilla was sharply depressed below the level of the nasal half. Weigert's stain demonstrated an early stage of optic atrophy. The choroid and retina were slightly adherent to each other. The cohesion was noninflammatory in character and may be attributed to coagulation of the albuminous products of post- mortem degeneration. In the macular region, the retina was thickened and thrown into folds. The fovea centralis formed a sharply-pointed, papilla-like detachment, projecting 0.75 mm. into the vitreous cavity. The space beneath this detached por- tion contained freshly-broken-off sections from the cone layer, rod-shaped pigment granules from the pigmented epithelium, and a granular coagulum. These retinal changes cannot be considered pathological, as the formation of folds around the macula are well-recognized as a post-mortem product. The inner segments of the rods and cones were well preserved. The outer segments had suffered the usual post-mortem degenera- tion. The external limiting and external granular layers showed nothing abnormal. The external reticular layer, which has fre- quently been described as edematous in this disease, showed less separation of its fibres than is usually observed in microscopic examination of healthy eyes. Near the fovea, the internal granular layer appeared to be unusually thick; otherwise, no change was noted. The inner reticular layer was normal. At the border of the fovea the ganglion cells were massed to a depth of twelve or more layers. In normal eyes the ganglion layer forms a stratum of single cells throughout the retina, except at the macula, where they are greatly increased in num- ber (up to nine layers). Here the inner granular layer also is doubled in thickness. Near the fovea centralis all retinal layers fuse, the cone visual cells almost alone persisting. We must, therefore, attribute the apparent multiplication of cells found