THE USE OF UTERINE DILATATION. 75 for operating within the uterine body, that I greatly wonder it is not more resorted to. Apart from polypi, moles, hydatids or other products of conception, fibrous growths, submucous and even mural, may readily be grasped, if one has explored the cavity with the finger and can, therefore, easily place the tena- culum or the forceps upon them with accuracy. In the case of small fibroids half buried or just presenting above the surface, one may be enabled to gradually work them out of their bed by the aid of an assistant holding the fundus in his hand and pressing intelligently with one or two fingers upon indurated spots or the designated growth from within. As traction and twisting is practiced, the assistant will recognize a tendency on the part of the uterus to invert at such a point, but he may still crowd the growth toward the uterine cavity and make it project, so that, as it advances, uterine tissue will contract back of it and fill its bed. I am partial to the sponge-holder for the purpose of such re- moval. The entire blade is a fenestrum and secures for the operator such a hold that he may twist the growth upon its axis until the mucous membrane covering is formed into a pedicle which soon yields, and the growth is extracted, provided the canal be sufficiently open. Otherwise, one may have to cut up the tumor and extract it piecemeal or split up the cervix. This procedure may be repeated, subject to the judgment of the operator, until all such as can be crowded down are re- moved. I think that this minor surgery may find a valuable place in our work, and save many a woman from taking extra risks, until such time as she may be compelled to, on account of subserous growths. Another purpose for which I would advocate the systematic use of the uterine dilator is the treatment of so-called chronic metritis (subinvolution) to be used frequently, under aseptic conditions, of course; the effect sought being the establishment of uterine contractions to follow the dilatation, thereby securing a tone of muscle and blood vessels which will diminish weight, lessen the menstrual flow, relieve pain and allow of restoring the uterus to its proper position in the pelvis. This method is the same as we sought in old times to bring about by the repeated use of sponge tents; and is quite similar to that which masseurs adopt in developing other muscles, viz.: opposing one force to another.