SURGERY OF ACUTE PANCREATITIS. 222 Looking at the case critically, we find very little indeed that could have helped us to make the diagnosis of pancreatitis. The only symptom that might have directed attention to pan- creatitis, was to be found in the patient's history, that the attack had begun with a sharp pain in the epigastrium. On the other hand, there were enough signs to mislead. The great tenderness over the entire abdomen, which was most marked in the hypogastric region, pointed rather to diffuse suppurative peritonitis of appendical origin. The fact that the tenderness was greater on the left side than on the right, did not militate against that assumption, as it is not rare to find that the more recently involved parts of the peritoneum are the most sensi- tive. The pain and tenderness, therefore, as they presented themselves on the patient's admission to the hospital, could not help us to make the diagnosis of pancreatitis. The ex- treme acuteness of the symptoms did not warrant any extensive laboratory studies. The high leucocyte count, and especially the very high percentage of polynuclear cells, indicated that operation was urgent. The autopsy showed that the pancrea- titis was not secondary to diseases of the biliary system. The case also shows that even the most acute, cases with extensive fat necrosis do not necessarily die on the first or second day of their disease, as has been claimed. This patient died on the fourth day after his operation and had been sick for two days before he was operated upon. Furthermore, his death was due to delirium tremens and lobar pneumonia. Without these complications he would doubtlessly have lived longer. In fact, as certain spots of fat necrosis found at the operation were not seen at autopsy, there is reason to believe that, without com- plications setting in, it may be possible for a patient to recover, the necrotic areas being reabsorbed. Mayo Robson observed a case of extensive fat necrosis that recovered. Formerly it was held that acute pancreatitis was regularly accompanied either by hemorrhage or suppuration; but cases have been reported in which neither of the two were present, and this case belongs in that category. Case II.—L. B., male, age 34 years; admitted to the medical service September 3, 1907. Heavy drinker. Five months ago he had an attack of pain in the upper part of the abdomen similar to his present attack. Eight days ago he was taken sick with cramps rapidly increasing in se- verity, followed by flatulence and vomiting and severe frontal headache.