81 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. had been made and, from the fact that the cutaneous structures were directly adherent to the abdominal fascia, made it most probable that all the structures of the base of the bubo down to the abdominal fascia had been removed. In the right loin and perinephritic region, there was great tenderness, resist- ance to pressure and some tumefaction. A long silver probe, introduced into the surface sinus marking the bubo operation, found its way through an opening in the abdominal fascia directly into the deep lymph space between the fascia propria of the pelvis and the peritoneum. An incision into the right loin was then made, which gave vent to a very large collection of pus and opened into an extensive extraperitoneal cavity. In the lower pelvic portion of this cavity, the end of the probe projected which had been passed in at the sinus left by the bubo operation. The upper limits of the cavity burrowed about the right kidney, ex- posing the liver and possibly even mounting to the diaphragm. This immense cavity was thoroughly drained, one of the tubes passing along the original path of the burrowing, through the per- foration in the abdominal fascia, along the deep pelvic lymph space and out at the loin incision. The patient, however, at the time of my operation, was in too low a condition from general sepsis to rally, death occurring some few hours later. Case IV.—A man, 26 years of age, entered my clinic at the Post-Graduate Hospital. He stated that a few days previously he had been discharged from an institution wherein he had under- gone an operation for bubo. He was weak and feverish, and com- plained of indefinite deep pain in the left pelvic region and of a stiffness of the left thigh. The bubo had been on the left side. Two months previous to the occurrence of the bubo he had con- tracted syphilis, and shortly after that gonorrhea. He had worked hard and, as he thought, had bruised himself in the left inguinal region shortly before the swelling there became so acute as to demand operation. On examination I found a small external sinus connecting with a large pus pocket which occupied the site of the previous bubo. On making an incision, enlarging freely the track of the sinus, the pus pocket was fully exposed. It was then evident that all the lymph glands and the surrounding connective tissue, right down to the abdominal fascia, had been removed at the time of operation through an external opening so narrow that a premature surface closure had taken place.