TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 282 b. During the process of maturation the Graafian follicle approaches constantly nearer to the surface of the ovary; its fluid contents increase rapidly, causing distention of the walls; the follicle, still enlarging, bulges above the niveau of the organ; its covering thins out, more and more, and becomes so attenu- ated that one can easily see the shimmer of the follicular contents through it. Finally it can not longer stand the constantly increasing pressure from within and the thinning of its walls, a defect is caused and the follicle ruptures. Let us suppose for a moment that a spermatozoon, having traveled up the uterus and Fallopian tube, has reached the surface of the ovary. (Bischof has seen the spermatozoa swarm- ing on the surface of a rabbit's ovary). It would not be impossi- ble for such a spermatozoon to penetrate through the extremely attenuated wall of a mature follicle and, finding the ovum securely imbedded in the discus proligerus bulging out over the surface of the ovary, gain access to the ovum and unite with it in the way taught by all text-books on the subject. This entrance would be facilitated by the anatomical arrangement of the columnar cells upon the surface of the ovary. It is a simpler matter to force a way through the comparitively soft cement substance between two columnar cells than to be compelled to bore through a flat epithelial cell. The difference might be likened to driving a nail into a brick wall between the bricks or through a brick. The ovum, being held fast, could not recoil from the attack, and almost all mechanical advantages being in favor of the spermatozoon, it would be almost certain to win. 4. Mechanical Reason.—For the purposes of this paper the ovum may be considered a ball and the spermatozoon a wedge pointed stick. Once the Graafian follicle has burst and the ovum is set free, the latter is precipitated into a comparatively large space—the peritoneal cavity. Here it rolls around, driven in various directions by the ceaseless motion of the pelvic and abdominal viscera. It is finally aspirated, together with some serum and perhaps a few drops of blood, into the ab- dominal ostium of the Fallopian tube and slowly approaches the uterine cavity. It eventually drops into the latter and is discharged and lost. Now let us see for a moment what would probably happen if