SUPPURATIVE LESIONS OF THE PHARYNX. 385 BY CHARLES GRAEF, M.D. Instructor in Diseases of the Nose and Throat, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. Of the conditions properly included under this head, that most commonly met with is " peritonsillar abscess " or quinsy. In no other acute throat trouble is precision in diagnosis and treatment so fully rewarded by relief of distress as in this, and yet these cases are among those most frequently left to worry their way through a painful and tedious course to a convalescence shadowed with the hopeful prognosis that, possibly, a similar experience may not again fall to the lot of the sufferer for some time. This state of affairs is partly due to a mistaken conception of the morbid changes present in cases of quinsy, and partly also to timidity or uncertainty, on the part of the practitioner, as to the necessary measures of treatment. The name quinsy is said to be derived by misuse from the term " cynanche ", a word com- monly applied at one time to all throat conditions associated with pain and obstructive swelling of the parts. This may explain, in a measure, the diversity of ideas still associated with the term " quinsy." Among the answers received from the members of a group of practising physicians to whom the ques- tion was recently put were illustrations of these varying ideas: (a) Membrane formation in the throat is associated with the condition known as quinsy. (b) . Quinsy is a severe inflammation of the tonsils, with incidental swelling of other pharyngeal tissues. (c) Quinsy is an inflammatory disease of the pharynx and larynx. The name " peritonsillar abscess " is much the better term to apply to this condition, for it defines very clearly the seat and nature of the lesion—a purulent inflammation of the tissues around the tonsil. In most instances the tonsils share only passively in the picture presented, although it is probable that in all cases the organisms responsible for the infection use the tonsil as a pathway of approach to the seat of disease. Bosworth and others insist strongly that a rheumatic taint in