1 REPORT OF A CASE OF MASTOIDITIS, COMPLICATED BY PURULENT MENINGITIS, ENCEPHALITIS, PHLEB- ITIS OF SIGMOID SINUS, JUGULAR BULB AND IN- TERNAL JUGULAR VEIN, OPERATION, RECOVERY. BY JAMES F. McKERNON, M.D. Professor of Diseases of the Ear, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. The following case is reported because it presents several interesting features, especially the meningeal and brain com- plication which the otologist not infrequently meets with, and seldom with recovery. The patient, a male aged 20 years, was seen in consultation with Dr. H. D. Chapin, on March 31, 1905. The following history was obtained from his mother. He had always been well except for the usual diseases of childhood, and a severe attack of articular rheumatism, when he was 12 years of age. Two weeks before he had an attack of follicular tonsillitis, lasting four days, and one week later he complained of severe pain in his ear, lasting four days, during which spontaneous rupture of the drum-membrane occurred. This was followed by partial relief for five days, when pain became severe again, and he was taken to an aurist who incised the drum-membrane, when he was again relieved of pain for several hours. This recurred again during the early hours of the following morning, and was quickly followed by severe pain, referred to the right side and top of the head, vomiting, dizzi- ness, restlessness and groaning, and intense thirst. Physical examination showed a well-developed adult, of 20 years, who was exceedingly restless, tossing from side to side of the bed, his eyes tightly closed, both hands clenched and emitting groan after groan with at times a high-pitched, inar- ticulate sound. Upon opening the eyes he would cry out with pain; the pupils were irregular with but little reaction, the left being smaller than the right; tongue dry and glazed, as were also the lips. The pulse was 100 per minute, full and bounding. Rectal temperature was 105.4 F.; respiration 24. He would lie quietly as though in a stupor, when suddenly he would arouse, ask for water, to again become exceedingly restless.