153 CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. the articular surface of the tibia about f of an inch. I found an oblique fracture of the fibula about 2h inches above its tip, united by fibrous union. With chisel, I divided the fibula along the original site of the fracture, and divided the fibrous union of tip the of the internal malleolus. After forcing my chisel between the tibia and fibula to partially separate the two, I was able to restore the parts to their original positions. I then used four iron wire sutures, two on each side of the ankle, to retain the fragments in apposition as before, and dressed with the usual dressing, with the foot in the inverted position with the heel drawn down, and plaster dressing over all. Everything has gone on favorably, no temperature and little pain. I can- not yet report a further result, but expect it to be good. The foot is still in the dressing. To summarize:—I have reported on 12 cases of deformity following Pott's fracture. In every one the operation for correc- tion was on the joint itself. In every instance the result has been a strong and useful foot, satisfactory alike to pa- tient and operator. The plan followed in operating has been to restore the foot to the axis of the leg, by bringing the astragalus squarely beneath the horizontal plane of the tibia By repro- ducing the mortise for its support, the normal relations of the leg and foot have been reestablished. While the operations have been different, they have aimed at the same principle in opera- ting. In the early cases, a reproduction of the original conditions after fracture seems practicable. Late conditions must be treated more radically, if need be, by-resecting bone and cutting of soft parts, until the foot can be again placed in line with the leg. Save the cartilage on one side of the joint in resections, if possible, to prevent ankylosis. Wire fragments when neces- sary, and, in short, remove or relieve obstructions as they appear in each particular case. The X-ray will assist, by pointing out what the operator will have to deal with, and aid him in formu- lating a previous plan of procedure. Suit the operation to the case at hand, with a clear idea of what you expect to accomplish, and you have the key to the situation.