426 ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. BY ROBERT HURTIN HALSEY, A.M., M.D. Adjunct Professor of Medicine, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. If the abdomen of a healthy child in the standing position be watched, we notice that it rises and falls during respiration synchronously with the thorax. Following the inspiratory excursion, there is a subsequent return to the previous con- tour. There is continual relaxation and contraction of the abdominal wall as part of the respiratory act. The expansion is not in any one plane, but in all directions, just as an elastic bag expands on inflation. The ribs, if we notice carefully, will be seen to be elevated and move outward, laterally as well as forward. An adult, man or nulliparous woman, in socalled normal condition, will show' practically the same movements excepting the modification due to artificial conditions. The woman, probably, has more motion present in the thorax, while the man has more in the abdomen. These two types, thoracic and abdominal, are usually to be observed, though there are all grades between. Just as there is tone to the extensor muscles of the arm when the flexor muscles contract, so there is a certain tone to the abdominal muscles which permits them involuntarily to give or stretch before distending pressure, while they contract when that is removed. This distention, however, is brought about by increasing intra-abdominal pressure in excess of the pressure the atmosphere exerts upon the surface. The muscles of the ab- dominal wall may still retain their tone though they have been stretched, as may be observed after filling the stomach, enlarging uterus, etc. There is a limit, however, to the amount of stretch- ing which may be endured without permanent injury. The effects of excessive distention may be seen in cases of- extreme relaxation. According to the physiologist, inspiration is the result of a muscular action; while expiration is merely the recoil of struc- tures, (lung tissue, cartilage and weight of displaced wall) pre- viously put on the stretch. The return of the abdomen to the position of rest must follow from the action, either of the muscles of the abdominal wall, or of the atmospheric pressure exerted