68 BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. peritoneum was previously closed by catgut. On the left side a sac very similar in character was found, which was believed to be the bladder, but this was not verified. The procedure was the same as on the opposite side. The patient left the hospital on the 14th day perfectly healed. No recurrence. Case XIV.—Extra peritoneal (Card No. 1239), May 10, 1905. E. A. T., 53 years of age (referred by Drs. Roberts and Fleming). Patient of medium height and quite fat. Double inguinal hernia of four years' duration; trusses unsatisfactory and worn only part of time. Operation performed at Murray Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. Right hernia the size of two adult fists, was found full of hypertrophied omentum, which was ligated by chromic gut and cut away. The canal was closed by the Bassini method. On the left side a small oblique sac was found protruding through the internal ring, and lower down inside of the cord, was what appeared to be a direct hernia. Upon examining this through an opening in upper sac,it was found to be an extra-peritoneal blad- der protrusion. The bladder was freed and pushed well to the center, the neck of the sac ligated, and canal closed by the Bassini method. Primary union was secured on the left, but slight suppuration occurred on the right. The patient left the sanitarium on the 21st day. No recurrence to January, 1908. Case XV.—Labial hernia, para-peritoneal bladder protrusion (Card No. 1295), January 3, 1906. K. W., age 36 (referred by Dr. Millspaught). Diagnosis: right labial hernia, the size of an adult fist, containing intestine and omentum; of nine years' duration; some symptoms of strangulated hernia during the past year; no truss worn. Operation was performed at Murray .Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. On opening the canal a large sac was found which was of ordinary thickness in its upper part, but was thick and had the feeling of adherent omentum at its fundus, which was well down in the labia majora. On opening the tissue near the internal ring a large, empty sac was found, which had dragged the bladder well over the pubic bone. On its posterior wall the bladder was well covered by peritoneum, but the anterior wall was extra-peritoneal. Had the sac been opened at what had appeared to be its fundus, the incision would have been into the bladder. The sac was closed by purse-string suture, the stitches following closely the margin of the internal ring,