470 SUBINVOLUTION. determine the position of the uterus. If there is any appreciable retroversion or retroflexion or a noticeable tendency to descent of the uterus, a pessary should be introduced; or else the vagina should be packed three times a week with gauze and glycerine, to give the uterus and the connective tissue elevating support. The return of the uterus to its normal size should be aided by the administration of ergot after the flow of milk is once well established. Lifting should be avoided. If the abdominal walls fail promptly to return to a tonic state, superficial and deep abdominal massage should be given and an abdominal belt of silk should be applied and worn. Various exercises should be taken. The sinusoidal electric current should be used. Constipation should be corrected. Treatment should be devoted rather to the prevention of these conditions than to their cure, for if once the uterus under- goes a fibroid change, if the ligaments of the pelvis and of the abdomen are not early restored to normal tone, treatment is then concerned with giving support by mechanical apparatus to the uterus, to the abdominal walls and to the intra-abdominal organs. When care of the general circulation is begun early and done systematically shortly post partum, its application is extremely efficacious in avoiding either constitutional sub- involution or hyperthyroidism. The longer this condition exists before treatment, the more difficult it is to correct; for the patients lose their courage, acquire ideas and phobias, and, since the resulting condition came on after labor, are firmly convinced that a genital condition is at fault, and feel certain that operation only will be of any value. It is just in this class of cases, where operations done for the correction of dis- placements of the uterus, cystocele and perineal lacerations, for fixation of movable kidneys, etc., fail of their proper pur- pose, because such operations do not cure the basic general asthenic condition of the patient. In the treatment of these cases coming to us with pelvic, abdominal and constitutional subinvolution already established, attention must be paid to the size and position of the uterus, the character of the uterine ligaments, the abdominal wall and the organs within the abdomen, the general circulation, and the condition of the nervous system. So far as the uterus is concerned, we must make use of the glycerine treatment