406 AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. first case, only the cortex was examined; but in the second, the ganglia, optic chiasm, the pons, the medulla, and the cer- vical cord were examined. No changes were found, however, in the gray matter of the cord. Later, Kingdon and Russell, in three autopsies, confirmed the findings of Sachs as to the changes in the ganglion cells of the cortex of the brain, and they, like him, were unable to discover any change in the ganglion cells of the cord, the cerebellum, or basal ganglia. The nature of these changes in the cells of the cortex was attri- buted by Sachs to arrest of development, but Kingdon and Russell thought they were purely degenerative symptoms. Hirsch, in 1898, after a very careful and complete histologic ex- amination, established the fact that not only the cells of the cortex of the brain were affected, but that the ganglion cells of the entire nervous system were diseased. He says that: " we haA'e an equal affection of all the nerve cells of the entire nervous system, the main features of which are a condition of chromato- lysis and other degenerative processes of protoplasm, combined with considerable swelling of the cell-body and displacement of the nucleus toward the periphery of the cell. The neuroglia has been found to be perfectly normal, and no affection of the blood vessels could be noticed throughout the entire system." Sachs (1903), in commenting on the three cases in which he held autopsies—the study of which was much more satisfactory by reason of the improved staining methods than was possible in his first two autopsies—says: " a careful stud)' of these actions show some degeneration in the development of the cerebral white fibres and also a degeneration of the pyramidal tracts in the lateral as well as in the anterior columns of the cord. This same degeneration can be traced through the course of the pyram- idal tracts in the inner capsule, crusta, pons and medulla, but much more striking than this, which occurs in the white fibres, is the change in the gray matter of the central nervous system. The changes are found to be the same in the cortex of the brain, in the cranial nerve nuclei, in the anterior and posterior gray matter from the periphery to the lowest lumbar and sacral segments of the cord. Even the sacral ganglia show similar changes. The changes are practically those to which attention has been especially directed by Dr. Hirsch, and which were found to be similar to those reported by me in the cortex, in