92 RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. incision, and then takes hold of a layer of uterus well out from the margin of. the uterine wound. The suture is then passed back through the peritoneum and tied. This method of suturing is continued symmetrically on both sides, until the uppermost suture is slightly above the level of the lower margin of the cor- pus uteri. Then a stronger silk suture is passed through the fascia on one side of the wound, through the peritoneum and across " through a considerable, not very superficial portion of the uterus," then out through peritoneum and fascia and tied as a buried suture. Another suture is passed higher up, so as to include the uterine wound near its upper termination. This secures a wide area of adhesion, and the abdominal wound is then closed. Intestines and omentum are thus excluded from the field of future operations. Sinclair then gives his experience of thirty cases cured of sterility by hysteropexis hypogastria, who have gone through pregnancy and parturition without abnormal symptoms. Further results from this plan of treatment will be awaited with great interest. We have known rupture of the uterus to follow ventrofixation, and time only can decide as to the value of the method. Conclusions.—1. Rupture of the uterus through the Caesarean cicatrix is of rare occurrence. 2. With prompt operative methods the mortality is compara- tively low. 3. When pregnancy follows Caesarean section, the patient may be safely delivered again by section in a large percentage of cases. 4. In repeating a section, labor should be anticipated by a week or ten days. 5. If section is to be repeated and labor sets in prior to the time elected for operation, the Caesarean should be performed as soon as possible after the onset of labor pains. 6. Sterilization may be done at the time of section, if the patient so desires. 7. Suture of the laceration has proven successful, but in some instances hysterectomy will be the method of choice. Case I., reported by Koblanck.8 In this patient the anterior incision had been made, and rupture occurred through the scar. The intact ovum was found in the abdomen; the laceration was sutured and the patient recovered.