PERITONITIS. 134 employed. For those patients in whom, from the slower and somewhat milder cause of the disease, it is evident that the septic intoxication is not so virulent; in whom it is further evident that the streptococcic invasion proceeds from the uterus and that the parametria are not involved; in whom other appropriate treatment has not produced decided improvement in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours; and who are still in fair condition, I advise total extirpation of the pelvic organs. The operation must be done very rapidly, not more than from fifteen to twenty minutes being allowed for the entire operation. A slow operator, one who is not an expert in such work, should not attempt it. This means, of course, that careful closing of the abdominal walls by tier sutures must be omitted; the flushing of the abdom- inal cavity should also be dispensed with, since it causes too much traumatism and deprives the intestines more or less of their endo- thelial covering, thus facilitating absorption. In short, the less one does in the opened abdominal cavity, the better are the chances for the patient's recovery. To use the words of my friend, Dr. Robert T. Morris, for abdominal work in general, " Get in and out again as rapidly as possible." A drain should be placed in the pelvis and carried into the vagina. The handling of the intestines should be avoided as much as possible. The patient should then have a narrow strip of gauze put over the abdominal wound, not the large bulky dressings usually applied to the abdo- men after abdominal sections. Over the very simple dressing an oxide of zinc plaster binder of reliable quality should be placed, but not drawn so tightly as I have advised after abdominal sections for other causes. The patient should immediately be placed in a semi-sitting position; or, as I prefer, for a few days after such operation, the head of the bed should be elevated to an angle of from thirty-five to forty-five degrees, which can readily be done by the aid of the bed-elevator devised by me. The slipping- down of the patient toward the foot of the bed can be prevented by a large roll against which she is braced by her buttocks, and which is fastened from the sides to the head of the bed. Then an ice-coil is applied over the abdomen. A very ingenious ice-coil has been devised by Dr. A. Brothers. The constant instillation of saline solution, according to the method suggested by Dr. j. B. Murphy, of Chicago, should be begun. It has been