MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 363 spread changes have been found in the spinal cord and in the peripheral motor nerves, and more particularly sclerosis of the posterior columns of the cord; slight degeneration of the pyramidal tracts and columns of Clark; some alteration of the cells of the anterior horns, and more or less degenerative changes in the peripheral nerves or intra-muscular nerve fibres. Such findings show how far removed this disease is from true myopathy, in which there is no disorder whatsoever of the central or peripheral nervous system that can in any way be con- strued as having a causal relation to the disease of the muscles. The disease muscular dystrophy, or primary myopathy, is the most typical example of abiotrophy. A few years ago Gowers suggested the name " abiotrophy " to indicate a de- fective vital endurance. Such defective vital endurance, in- herent in the embryonal tissue from which the muscular struc- tures of the body arise, constitutes muscular dystrophy or what would be more felicitiously called primary myopathy, as the word dystrophy, itself, means defective nutrition. We have taken from our records, the histories of fifty successive cases of dystrophy and subjected them to analysis, particularly to learn how they group themselves in regard to the classification that has been mentioned above, and more particularly the pseudohypertrophic type, the juvenile type, the facio-scapulo-humeral type and the distal type, to determine anything of interest in that element without which the disease never apparently develops, viz., defective heredity and, finally, to study the clinical course of the disease, i.e., the disease as a whole and not any special varieties of it. We preface this analysis with a brief review of the early history of the subject, and append some remarks on the morbid anatomy of the disease. History.—In 1829 Abercrombie described a case of muscular wasting in a boy in whom the musculature of the shoulders and upper arms had almost completely disappeared, while those of the forearms remained intact. Abercrombie was unable to attribute a cause for the affection, but he suggested that the disease was dependent upon changes in the peripheral nerves. About the same time Charles Bell gave an excellent description of muscular atrophy, to which later the name of pseudohyper- trophic muscular paralysis was given. The description is to