ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 309" Hematometra. Double hemato (pyo) salpinx. Vagina arti- ficially dissected up to the uterus. The blood-collection in the uterus was later incised, evacuating over a quart of thick, black blood. Suture of uterus to vaginal mucous membrane. Septic peritonitis at the end of a week. Laparotomy. Tubes dis- tended with green, fetid pus and adherent to the intestines. Double salpingo-oophorectomy. Death 42 hours later. Martin adds that the tubes originally contained blood, which became in- fected through adhesions to the intestine; but it seems to me more likely that the infection was post-operative and came through the newly-opened vaginal tract. Chaput (reported by Morely, 1898). Imperforate hymen; retro-hymeneal vaginal septum. Hematocolpos. Puncture of membraneous diaphragm evacuating \ litre of blood. Laparot- omy 48 hours later for collapse symptoms of peritoneal origin. Abdomen contained 200 grammes of black blood. Double salpin- gotomy. The right tube was the size of a fist and twisted on itself in a special manner six times, the left tube showed five spiral twists. The twisting of the tube was attributed to the effects of removing the blood-supporting column from below. The patient died in a short time after the operation. Albertin (1899) reports a case of atresia vaginas with hema- tometra. Three years previously the rudimentary vagina was punctured without benefit. Vaginal dissection was attempted when the peritoneal cavity was unexpectedly invaded. The uterus seemed to be detached from the vagina. The wound was now packed in order to agglutinate the uterine fundus to the vaginal opening. Six days later the hematometra was punctured, giving exit to 50 or 60 grammes of prune-juice-col- ored blood. This was followed by exsection of a portion of the uterine wall to secure a permanent opening, and the wound was packed with gauze. The passage-way closed up later with pus formation, and a spontaneous opening in the rectum ensued. The patient, after this, menstruated per rectum for 18 months, when laparotomy was done. Tubo-ovarian abscesses were found and removed. Peritonitis set in on the fourth day, and the patient succumbed on the sixth day. In reviewing these four fatal cases, one feels that the three last would have stood a better chance for recovery had lap- arotomy been done at the outset, before the deeper portions..