CICATRICIAL STRICTURE OF THE ESOPHAGUS. 437 due to mediastinal sarcoma; one case of carcinomatous stricture (permanent valvular-gastrostomy was performed, with feeding through the gastric fistula); two cases of foreign body obtura- tion; four cases of benign cicatrical stricture, two of which were due to swallowing caustic acids, and the other two due to ingestion of caustic alkalies. In the summer of 1905, Dr. Samuel Lloyd, while away on his vacation, placed under my care one of his patients who had a diverticulum of the esophagus which caused marked dysphagia. Besides these cases, it was my privilege, when an interne in the Post-Graduate Hospital, to see and study six additional cases of cicatricial esophageal stricture, and personally to carry out many of the details in connection with the treatment. The diagnosis of this affection is easy. No matter from what cause the stricture arises, there are certain constant symptoms, varying in degree, of course, with the nature and extent of the stenosis. These symptoms are increasing dysphagia, persistent regurgitation, and progressive emaciation. The physi- cal examination of an individual with esophageal stenosis should include the ordinary methods of diagnosis, viz., palpation, per- cussion, auscultation, etc., and, in addition, the use of bougies, the X-ray and the esophagoscope. The passage of bougies will deter- mine the site of the stricture, also the patency or non-patency of the canal. Begin first with large instruments, and gradually decrease the size until one is passed or until the non-patency of the esophagus is established. The greatest caution and gentleness should be observed in these efforts; absolutely no force should be exerted, for it is very easy to penetrate the wall of the gullet and thereby to set up fatal inflammation. One should not be satisfied with a single examination, but with various-sized instruments, with the patient's head in different positions, repeated attempts should be made to pass the obstruction. By administering a thick bismuth paste and taking a radiograph of the chest and neck, it is possible to obtain accurate knowledge of the location of the stricture and of the calibre and course*of the esophagus above. In selected cases, the esophagoscope should be used. The introduction of this instrument is somewhat difficult and not without danger, but in the hands of an expert it is possible to obtain an exact picture of the esophagus.