415 A CONTRIBUTION TO THE STUDY OF THE CALMETTE OPHTHALMO-TUBERCULIN REACTION, BASED UPON A STUDY OF FORTY CASES. BY CHARLES OGILVY, M.D. Adjunct Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. The recent observations of Calmette and Wolf-Eisner on the conjunctival reaction to tuberculin in cases of tuberculosis, have attracted universal attention. This is but a natural se- quence; for, when we consider the world-wide ravages of this disease, it is not surprising that any additional light which may be shed upon this subject should be received with worthy credit and widespread interest. This method of diagnosis was suggested by Wolf-Eisner at a meeting of the Berlin Medical Society, when the subject of von Pirquet's tuberculo-cutaneous reaction was under discussion. About the same time (June, 1907) Calmette, of Lille, France, described the method and reported upon the reactions which had followed the administration of the instillations in 25 cases. Sufficient time has now elapsed to enable other observers to report upon the subject. From these combined reports we are able to form an opinion of the value of this means of diagnosis. The cases tabulated below have been chosen with the object of determining the efficiency of this method of diagnosis, espec- ially in cases of bone and joint tuberculosis. They comprise the largest series of such cases thus far reported. The work was conducted in great part in the Post-Graduate Hospital. Preparation of Tuberculin Used.—The tuberculin preparation employed by Calmette is a one per cent. (1%) aqueous solution of the precipitate obtained on the addition of alcohol to. tuber- culin. We are indebted to Dr. William H. Park, of the New York Health Department, for a supply of this preparation. " A quantity of Koch's old tuberculin (concentrated) is poured into two volumes of 95% alcohol, allowed to settle and filtered through paper. The sediment is washed with 70% alcohol, until the filtrate runs clear. It is then pressed between layers of filter paper, to remove excess of moisture, scraped into a dish, dried in vacuo over sulphuric acid, and triturated in a mor-