PRIMARY EPITHELIOMA OF THE VAGINA. 164 Baldwin reports a case of the father and grandfather having cancer, and Fenger saw a case where the grandfather and aunt died of the disease. Trapenard, in his 40 cases, found it clear in but one. Irritation.—There are but few cases reported where any mechanical irritation or trauma could be considered as a con- tributing cause. Hegar reports a case following ulceration due to a pessary. Remarkably few cases are reported where there has been vaginal prolapse and invagination. Site.—The disease may start from any part of the vaginal walls, but in by far the greater number the origin is on the posterior wall. In Bernard's and Williams' cases, 50 arose from the posterior wall, 15 from the anterior wall, in nine the lateral walls were first affected, and in two the disease was annular. Olshausen reported 18 cases, 13 of which involved the posterior wall. Pathology.—The vagina resembles the skin in its histological structure far more than it does a mucous membrane. It is lined by stratified epithelial cells, arranged as in the integument. There is an absence of hairs and glands, and, according to Williams, a decided absence of pigment, which accounts for the extreme rarity of the melanotic types of cancer in this location. While the greater surface of the vagina is covered with pave- ment or squamous epithelium, cylindrical cells are present in the ducts of Gartner and in Skene's glands. Epithelioma of the vagina in its structure resembles epithelioma of the "integu- ment, and it nearly always originates in the squamous epithelium. It is usually classified into two varieties, the lobular and the tubular, according to the arrangement of the cells. The lobular variety is the most frequent. It has been demonstrated by Reclus that the plaques of leucoplakia met with in chronic vaginitis may become transformed into epithelioma. Polosson and Violet describe a form of cylindrical epithelioma which originates from the remains of the ducts of Gartner, and state that the theory of congenital anomalies explains this type. The cases of grafted neoplasms observed by Hartmann explain the origin of certain cases of squamous epithelioma. Macroscopically, the tumor shows two forms. The most frequent is that of a papillary growth. The second form is that of an infiltration. The papillary form is usual to the pos-