ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. 432 Corsets, falls and direct blows in the regions of the various organs, probably have no effect on their position unless one of the previously mentioned causes has first existed. When chronic toxemia has become established, a vicious circle at once becomes active. The nervous disturbances affect di- gestion deleteriously, while the stagnation in the digestive tract increases the poisoning of the circulation and so hastens degeneration of the nervous system and muscles. Each condi- tion reacts upon the other to exaggerate it. There are no characteristic changes in the blood or urine. The blood may show secondary anemia; the urine may contain some albumin and casts, with indicanuria, and decreased sulphates and urea-uric-acid ratios. For purposes of management, the cases may be grouped accord- ing to symptoms. 1. Those in whom the nervous symptoms are most prominent. 2. Those who complain most of digestive disturbances. 3. Those in whom organic displacements account for distress. The aims of treatment must be to relieve toxemia, improve nutrition, replace dislocated organs. Treatment may be grouped under the means at our disposal, as hygiene, rest, exercise—passive and active—mechanical support, drugs and operation. Hygiene includes regular hours for sleep, bathing, eating and life in the open air and is necessary for every case. The cloth- ing about the body should be worn loose. The custom of wear- ing about the waist tightly-constricting bands, belts or strings from which the skirts or trousers are supported, must be discon- tinued. All weight of the clothing should come upon the shoulders; otherwise, the good arising from support of the lower segment will be counteracted by the downward-pull of the con- stricted upper segment. Rest may require prolonged application in isolation, as for simple neurasthenia. The diet should consist of all classes of food taken at frequent intervals in small amounts. Rapid improvement of nutrition follows the use of such foods properly prepared as to be most easily absorbed from the weakened digestive apparatus. Fluid should be used in large amounts and administered at such times as not to interfere with food digestion. Rectal enemas of