RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. 99 are due for the history of this hitherto unreported case. First Caesarean section in 1904. Longitudinal incision in the anterior uterine wall, ex- tending lower than my incision and not so far back in the fundus. Low abdominal incision. Second Caesarean in 1906. Short abdominal in- cision, entirely above a. Umbilicus; longitudinal incision through the fundus. b. When the uterus was sutured, the line of incision went over the fundus well to the posterior aspect of the uterus. c. Uterus sutured in three continuous layers. 1. First layer through muscle, No. 2 catgut; 2. Second layer through peritoneum and muscle, No. 3 catgut; 3. Third, a Lembert suture, No. 2 catgut. The recovery was uneventful. In January, 1908, the patient, when about to be confined, refused to come into the hospital. She went into labor, at term, apparently about 6 p.m. one night and apparently went into moderate collapse (after hard pains) at about 11 p.m. A physician saw her about 2 a.m. of the same night, but did not diagnosticate the condition, and left her after giving a hypodermic of morphine. She was brought to my service in the hospital in the evening of this day, i.e., about 18 hours after she had been first seen by a physician. There was extreme shock and all the signs of rupture of the uterus, especially marked ab- dominal tenderness. Laparotomy was performed at once; child and placenta were found in the belly with a moderate number of clots. The uterus was ruptured from internal os up to the fundus in the median line, in one of the two previous scars. There is still some doubt as to which scar gave away. A supravaginal hysterectomy was done. The patient did finely after she had recovered from the shock and was to sit up on the tenth day, when she unfortunately developed a pneumonia and died on the seventeenth day. Case XX. This patient was referred to me at the Post-Graduate Hospital by Dr. Brothers, and the following history was obtained: Age, 35; nativity, Russia; now pregnant for the fifth time. All previous labors had been long and difficult, with still birth in each instance, although fetal movements were observed up to the very last days. The pelvis was flat, the internal conjugate measuring 8 cm. Caesarean section was advised, and, on December 31, 1904, was performed at about full term. The usual longitudinal incision was made, and the wound was sutured in layers with chromicized catgut. The patient made a good recovery and left the hospital with her baby in good condition. Early in August, 1906, the patient was again seen for the first time in her sixth pregnancy. She gave April 1 as the date of her last menstrua- tion, and she appeared to be, as she herself thought, about four months pregnant. Life had not yet been felt, and the uterus appeared to be of four months size. The patient was anxious to have another child, and she was advised to have a second Caesarean operation in the latter part of December, when full term had been reached. On November, 26 at 8 p.m., a physician living near the patient was called in to see her, and he re- ported that the patient was having " false pains," with a slight bloody