264 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. the subject. Dr. Van Tussenbroek did not publish the result of this investigation until nearly six years after the operation, so that it could not well be said to have been overlooked in the hurry of a superficial examination. Neither can it be assumed that such a careful and painstaking investigator who, in a report which is a model of accuracy as to detail, in which the amount of protoplasm of a cell and the shape of a cell nucleus, also the degree to which a cell protoplasm takes up the color of a par- ticular stain is given vivid description, should have been guilty of an oversight which would be fatal to the description of her specimen. One is, therefore, quite at a loss to understand why this particular piece of tissue should have escaped the microtome when the doctor was cutting the ovary into serial sections. Both authors assert that the tube on the affected side was nor- mal. On further investigation one finds that the fimbriated extremity of this Fallopian tube was not exactly normal but that, as they express it, the fimbriae were somewhat glued or matted together. Ordinarily this would not mean much in the way of pathology. However, the significance of finding such an ab- normal condition of the tube is vastly greater in a case of this nature, because it is upon this very point, namely, a perfectly normal condition of the tube, that the whole question of ovarian pregnancy hinges. Perhaps this may have been the reason which induced Professor Leopold Meyer, of Copenhagen, to object that this may have been a tubo-ovarian pregnancy rather than a purely ovarian one, when the doctor exhibited the speci- men and read the report of this case. Furthermore, in his original report of this case, Professor Kouwer stated that, on the pole of the tumor, a rough surface was visible, as if adhesions had been torn loose there. In her paper the doctor does not describe this condition at all; in fact, does not mention it in any way. It does not take a very great amount of discernment to see the connection of this unexplained raw surface, which looked as if adhesions had been torn loose there, and the matted, pathologi- cally changed fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube on that side. It does not seem impossible for these to have been con- nected and torn apart during the manipulation necessary during operation. Nothing seems more natural in fact, than the loosening of adhesions by the fingers of the hand introduced within the abdomen, while groping in the dark of a pelvis filled