PERNICIOUS ANEMIA. 107 the characteristic lemon tint, pale mucous membranes, flabby musculature, foul breath, and a few petechiae here and there and some upon the abdomen; spleen somewhat enlarged; no tem- perature. Blood examination showed poikilocytosis, some normoblasts and a few megaloblasts, red cells about two million to the cubic centimeter. Although characteristic enough, the pathological state of his blood was much less marked than in the case of P. M. The history of the case was carefully gone into, but with re- gard to its etiology nothing remained but the supposition that gastrointestinal ferments might have caused hemolysis and blood degeneration. This case of pernicious anemia being yet in the early stage and comparatively light the patient's stomach and bowels were first thoroughly irrigated and cleansed and then enteroclysis of normal salt solution of between one and two quarts in the twenty- four hours applied for several days. Fowler's solution was also given in gradually increasing doses, proper diet, warm baths, and good nursing ordered, and the patient treated in his own house. Improvement followed quickly and final recovery took place in the course of the summer. At the end of 1905 the blood count was about normal and has remained so. Case III.—Mary S., age 26 years, single, Irish, servant. No history. For about five years decaying teeth and ulcerating gums with occasional bleeding from them. Had been in hospital for this but failed to have her teeth and gums attended to after being discharged. When she came under my care three years ago she was able to be about but had bled rather profusely from the mouth for several days. An examination disclosed extensive decay of teeth and diffuse ulceration of gums. Blood count showed only two million red cells, some poikilocytosis, but neither megalo-nor normoblasts. I took especial care to have her treated by a competent dentist, and had then but little difficulty in restoring her gums to normal condition by appro- priate local treatment. After the administration of iron and arsenic and a three months' sojourn in the country the patient was completely cured. Case IV.—Louisa F., aged 30, American, single, teacher, a pale, poorly nourished woman, presented herself in October, 1906. She had never been robust, suffered much from headache