URETHRAL CALCULUS. 173 the bulbous portion. The patient was discharged from the hospital cured, December 30, 1907. Vesical calculi are not infrequently driven from the bladder into the deep urethra and, if not too large, may traverse the entire length of the urethra and thus escape. Larger stones usually become impacted, completely blocking the urethral canal, and cause acute retention which continues until relieved by a surgical operation. In the case, the history of which is given above, the stone had evidently been lodged in the urethra for some time and, apparently, without causing any discomfort, to judge from the patient's story. It probably escaped from the bladder as a small uric acid stone, as represented by the nucleus seen in the illustration of the cut section of the stone (Fig. 2). It passed through the prostatic and membranous portions of the urethra and became arrested in the compara- tively roomy bulbous portion. In this location it remained without causing any urgent symptoms, permitting the urine to flow past it, between it and the urethral wall, ball-valve fashion, gradually increasing in size and assuming the form of a cast of the bulbous portion of the urethra by the deposit of phosphates, until it reached its present size and, finally, a slight increase in the swelling of the mucous membrane of the urethral canal was sufficient to completely block the canal and shut off the escape of urine. An interesting feature is the tolerance of the urethra to the lodgement of a calculus for the considerable period necessary to have resulted in the large stone exhibited. It could not have escaped from the bladder in its present size and, according to the history, it did not begin to cause inconvenience until four weeks before operation, when it had probably acquired sufficient size to seriously obstruct the urethral canal. How long before this time the stone in its original form had entered the urethral canal, is uncertain. There is nothing in the his- tory to determine this time. Examination of the stone, section and photographs were made in the laboratory of the Post-Graduate Hospital under the direction of Professor H. T. Brooks, who reports that the nucleus of the calculus is composed of uric acid, and the outer layers of calcium carbonate, calcium phosphate and ammonio- magnesium phosphate.