AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. 405 arose to 80. It was difficult to account for the rise of tempera- ture. When the child first came into the hospital it slept fairly well, but later became very restless, often cried out in its sleep, and feeding had to be forced. Difficulty in swallowing in the latter stages of the disease was very marked. On January 3, I examined the eyes for the first time. The pupils, before atropin had been instilled, were about one third dilated, very sluggish in reacting. Examination of the fundus with dilatation of the pupils showed the typical changes in and around the maculae, also atrophy of the optic nerve. There was a large grayish-white patch surrounding each macula, while the macular themselves were cherry-red in color, horizon- tally oval. The blood vessels of the retina could be seen very distinctly in this nebulous area surrounding the macula;, and the optic nerve was intensely white. The blood vessels were about the normal size. The patient was entirely blind. I examined the eyes three or four times later, and at the very last stages of the disease the maculae became a somewhat brownish red, rather than the intense red as first observed. This change has been noted also by Mary Buchanan in the case she examined for Dr. McKee. During the stay in the hospital, the child vomited once. Towards the end there was a slight looseness of the bowels. The child became very much emaciated, and died on February 4, 1908. One eye was removed nine hours after death and given to Dr. Edward L. Oatman for histologic examination. While this peculiar malady has come to be recognized as a dis- tinct clinical type of family disease, largely through the efforts of Dr. Sachs, its etiology still remains a matter of much discus- sion. Whether the disease is congenital, in the sense that it is due to some inherent defect in the gray matter of the central nervous system; or if the disease is acquired and due to degen- eration of some kind, is still undecided. In all the cases upon which post-mortem examinations have been made there is, on the whole, close agreement as to the pathological findings, and, as Sachs remarks, (1903): " there can be a difference of opinion only in respect to the interpretation of these findings." In Sachs' earliest autopsies, the first in 1887 and the second in 1892, he found evidences of degeneration in the pyramidal cells of the entire cortex of the brain. In the