194 CARCINOMA OF THE HEART. static tumor in the right 'cavity of the heart which clinically produced a systolic murmur at the apex. Lenoble described a case with multiple metastases in the heart which clinically pro- duced in the vessels of the neck a murmur like the purring of a cat. One of Deguy's11 cases had heart crises like angina pectoris. Napp12 describes a case, a man 42 years old, with carcinoma of the stomach, in whom a nodule, measuring 5.5 x 3.5 cm. was found in the apex of the heart. This nodule had so extensively re- placed the muscle that normal myocardium was present only at the apex. The lumen of the right ventricle was so narrowed that there was only a small slit for the passage of blood. Although there was this marked obstruction, the heart tones and action were normal to the time of death. Report of Case. Epithelioma of the esophagus with secondary involvement of the myocardium, lungs, liver and kidney. S. B. Hospital number 1002, aged 38, was admitted to the Surgical Wards of the New York Post-Graduate Hospital com- plaining of difficulty in swallowing. He had been unable to take solid food for about two months, and had lost strength and weight rapidly in the three months prior to admission. He complained of cough and dyspnea which had persisted for about three weeks. No blood had ever been expectorated. The symptoms, while the patient was in the hospital, were chiefly dyspnea and dysphagia, though the pulse-rate was accelerated (112 to 124) and the respirations were from 36 to 38 to the minute. Examination of the sputum showed numerous pneumo- cocci, staphylococci, few streptococci and no tubercle bacilli. The sputum was abundant, purulent and had a foul odor. The patient died two days after admission. The autopsy report is briefly as follows: The body is quite emaciated; rigor mortis present to a marked degree; the epitrochlear and cervical lymph glands are palpably enlarged. Esophagus.—Palpably thickened at the level of the bifurcation of the trachea, and, on freeing the surrounding tissues, it is seen to be about two or three times its normal size, the enlargement beginning at the bifurcation of the trachea and extending almost to the cardia. On opening the esophagus the lumen is markedly