RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. 87 of all operators, is between five to ten per cent. In the hands of experts, the mortality of both classes of cases is probably less than five per cent. Mortality of Rupture through the Scar.—Krukenberg,1 referring to the old operation, quoted a mortality of 50 per cent. Very different has been the death rate in the cases reported and re- ferred to in the literature of the last five years. Of the 20 re- ported cases, 16 recovered, three died, and the result in one case (No. 4)11 is unknown. Note must be made of the fact that, in case No. II18, the uterus was not sutured at the time of the- section, and we have included in our cases of recovery the case of Lobenstine, for when the patient was ready to sit up on the tenth day pneumonia set in, which terminated fatally on the 17th day. This death can certainly not be attributed to the operation. The mortality is, therefore, 15 per cent. In each of the three fatal cases the rupture was complete, the child having entered the abdominal cavity, and in one case laparotomy was not performed until two days had elapsed from the onset of labor. In my own case, the patient was dying when the laparotomy was. performed, some five hours after pains had commenced, at the end of the eighth month of pregnancy. When one compares* the 15 per cent, mortality with the mortality of rupture of the uterus in general, one is astonished that the figures are so much lower. In recent years the mortality has decreased, but the figures given below give some idea of the appalling death rate from rup- ture. Dorland4 collected from the literature of the three years, from 1901 to 1903, 50 cases with a mortality of 24 per cent. I van- off5 stated that, in the Moscow Maternity, from 1877 to 1901 there had been 124 cases of which 98 died, giving a mortality of 79 per cent. The same author quotes Klien, who gives 56 per- cent, recovery by operative methods, and Kolomenkin who gives. 53 per cent, recovery by operation (but excluding cases of laparot- omy and suture, 64 per cent.). Lobenstine6 quotes 37 cases with a mortality of 73 per cent., but states that in the last six cases the mortality was only 33 per cent. The fact must be considered that in the case of a patient who has had a Caesarean section,, the treatment of a subsequent pregnancy and labor is frequently referred to experts, which would naturally account for the smaller mortality. The fetal mortality is very high. Of the 16 cases where the result for the child is known, the child lived in.