251 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. Sinclair (1853).—A woman, aged 36, and the mother of four chil- dren, died in the fifth month of her fifth pregnancy. A small quantity of blood was found in the pelvis, which was occupied by a considerable tumor. Near the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis was a small rent beneath the clot, and this led into a cyst, which contained a fetus of considerable size. The uterus was displaced and formed the roof of the cyst. On the left side the corresponding tube, round ligament and ovary were found. The latter was transformed into a yellowish-brown, pultaceous mass. On the right side a portion of the Fallopian tube and round liga- ment was seen, but no trace of an ovary. In its stead was a large fibrous cyst. The fetus was connected by its cord to the placenta which, in turn, was attached to the fibrous cyst already mentioned and which was situated on the right side. This case is obviously not one of ovarian pregnancy. It would, therefore, be a waste of time and space to bring proofs. A number of authorities agree on this point. Uhde (1857).—The patient was the mother of two children, and died 11 weeks after cessation of the last menstruation. At autopsy the ab- dominal organs were seen to be generally adherent to each other. At the bottom of a cavity formed by adhesions and which contained some fluid blood, the right ovary was found. The latter was enlarged and emphysematous, and at its posterior surface and behind, it was con- nected with a sac which was formed of chorion. This sac approached in size that of a large plum and had a rent on its posterior surface. The sac contained an embryo, about seven to eight lines in length, surrounded by villi, and showed an umbilical vesicle. Right tube and fimbria? free. Uterus four inches long and three inches broad. Its cavity contained a decidua. According to Gurgui, this is a case of secondary implantation upon the ovary. Some essential details are lacking. In the first place it is rather difficult to understand how there could be a general adherence and matting together of all the abdominal organs (no doubt due to a general peritonitis) and only just this right tube and even its fimbriae " free." This is the more extraordinary when it is considered that the ovary had to be dug out of a bed of adhesions, at the bottom of which it was found, and nevertheless its tube and even the fimbriae were " free." Another interesting fact is that, although the sac was torn, the embryo still remained within. Finally, an embryo of eleven weeks ought to be more than 7 to 8 lines long. No good purpose can be served by continuing the critique of this case, but it may safely be assumed that it is not one of ovarian preg- nancy.