TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 268 The second case is a I-para 25 years old. Last menses August, 1902. She gave a history of bleeding for six weeks. Laparotomy was performed November 22, 1902. On the right side in the location of the ovary a pear-shaped tumor was found. The corresponding tube, as thick as a lead pencil, can be followed for about 3 cm. It is lost in the tumor,, and forms a blood cyst. The ovary contained no hemorrhages. A cavity in its centre was found to be lined with decidua cells. Distinct ovarian tissue was found, but no chorionic villi. Fetus was not found. It is rather difficult to understand upon what grounds the author bases his diagnosis of ovarian pregnancy in these two cases. The only one the reader can recognize as such is the fact that these women missed a menstrual period. No attempt is made to assert that a fetus was seen or anything suggesting fetal elements found on microscopical investigation. It wouldy therefore, seem unprofitable to further discuss these two cases. Croft (1900).—A woman, 25 years of age, who had given birth to two- children, died 12 days after a laparotomy. Cause of death unknown. At the autopsy no signs of peritonitis were found. It is positively refreshing to note the absolute fairness and candor which pervades this article. No attempt is made to exaggerate, and the modesty, characteristic of the English, is so apparent as to compel admiration. The author does not. insist that his case is undoubtedly one of ovarian pregnancy. He merely suggests that it may be so. However, as the evidence on this point is by no means conclusive, one is forced not to- accept it as such. Boesebeech (1904).—A woman, 41 years of age, who had borne two- children, was admitted to the hospital in June, 1903. A cystic growth the size of a man's fist was found, upon vaginal examination, to be con- nected with the right side of the uterus. There was an irregular menstrual history. No decidual membrane had been passed. Diagnosis, ovarian cyst on right side with twisted pedicle. At the laparotomy a parovarian cyst, without adhesions and without a twisted pedicle, was removed. The corresponding ovary was twice its normal size and had a rupture, covered by a blood coagulum, which gave vent to a viscid, sanguinolent fluid. The right ovary also was removed. The left adnexa were normal. The very minute description of the macroscopical and microscopical ap- pearances shows that neither a fetus nor a gestation-sac was found. In this case the author tries to draw an analogy between the appearances found here and those described by Van Tussenbroek in Kouwer's case. The cavity in which the fetus is at one time supposed to have been, is described in similar fashion. This cavity shows, among other things, a number of degenerated but.