356 PANAS' OPERATION FOR STRABISMUS. of the cornea attains without much resistance the external lid commisure. Panas never succeeded in making the least rupture of the tendon of the muscle under traction—an accident not likely to be made when one recalls that, with a weight of five kilo- grammes (about 10 lbs.), the muscle of dogs could not be broken. Spasmodic jerks must not be made, as a feeble muscle might be broken. Having completed the elongation of the muscle, one proceeds in the usual way to a complete tenotomy of the tendon down to the surface of the sclerotic; to be assured that no adhesion or tendon remains, the hook is passed to the upper and lower border of the muscle, and every remnant of tendon or attachment to the sclera is cut free. The hook is then re- leased, bleeding checked, and the conjunctival wound is closed by a suture of catgut, and the conjunctival sac irrigated. Pre- cisely the same procedures are carried out immediately on the other eye. At first, under fear of an over-correction, especially when the deviation was mild, not exceeding 10° to 15°, traction was lim- ited to the eye with fixed strabismus, while a simple tenotomy was made on the other eye; but clinical experience gave over- whelming proof to the author of the operation that elongation of the muscle in each eye was a condition of success; and since then he has always executed this double procedure. Both eyes must be kept bandaged 24 to 48 hours. Aside from a small amount of ecchymosis at the point of traction and tenotomy, conjunctiva and sclera preserve their normal aspect; in five or six days, when the suture either falls out, or is absorbed, cica- trization is perfect. After a proper correction of the ametropic and astigmatic errors, usually present in such cases, the patient is discharged about the 10th day. In order to perfect the estab- lishment of binocular vision, exercises by the stereoscope or other orthoptic means should be begun, and continued a long time with intelligence and persistency. Such is the descrip- tion given by Panas of this simple operation. The salient points are two: first, the operation must always be done on the two eyes simultaneously; second, elongation and tenotomy of the same muscle must be complete. The operation hitherto made under the term of strabotomy, was that of simple tenotomy; that is, tenotomy of a single, usually the chiefly deviating muscle, and confined to the main,