357 PAN AS' OPERATION FOR STRABISMUS. or central, tendon of that muscle. Various modifications of this simple tenotomy had been made by Arlt, von Graefe, Critchett, Prince, Schweigger, Schellen, Stevens and others. All are modeled after the tenotomy of Dieffenbach, who first performed muscle- division with a tenotome in 1839. The suggestion came from Stromeyer, and was inspired by his results in myotomy on the cadaver in 1838. Guerin, at the same time made a subcon- junctival myotomy of the rectus intern us with a sharp-pointed knife, by cutting upwards against the rectus tendon, just as Stromeyer severed the tendo-Achilles by a subintegumental inci- sion. Simple tenotomy has always been accompanied by anxiety as to sufficient correction of the deformity. No operator, how- ever practised or clever he may be, undertakes operative inter- ference for the relief of strabismus without feeling much anxiety as to the results in one session; this anxiety is not on account of over-correction, but on account of under-correction, with a possible necessity of further operative interference. The em- phatic caution of certain text-books, not to cut too much, has never appealed to me as wise teaching. In a series of about 3400 cases, I have seen the result of over- correction but 15 times, and these cases were observed from one to twenty years after operation. Of these 15 over-correc- tions, six required advancement of the over-tenotomized muscle, or tenotomy of the antagonist, while the remainder acquired parallelism by the stereoscope and atropine or by suitable re- fractive glasses, fortified by prisms. I think it may be stated, with strict adherence to truth, that not more than 40% of strabismics operated on by simple tenotomy of one eye acquire parallelism for life. Some authors place the figures of success lower than this. Serious objection, from a scientific and surgical point of view, as also from consideration of the personal equation of the patient, may properly be made to any method which in- volves the necessity of repetition and in many instances multiple repetition. The so-called " dosage of tenotomy " is itself a malady to be cured. None of these methods of simple tenotomy offers in advance any definite guarantee of full, complete success in one session. In the earlier operations of Professor Panas, the deviating muscle of each eye was stretched once. I have found this