OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. 83 sented to a further operation, and chloroform was administered, after which it was possible thoroughly to examine the condition. In the first place, the original incision in the left loin above the posterior edge of the crest of the ilium was reopened and the drainage-tube replaced, which entered the extraperitoneal pelvic cavity from this opening and extended upward, passing through the abdominal fascia along the track of the original sinus. As this tube did not seem to thoroughly diain the dependant por- tion of the pelvic cavity, the patient was next put in the lithotomy position and a free lateral incision made to the left of the rectum, opening the ischiorectal space. The ischiorectal fat was incised, laying bare the levator ani muscle. A probe was then passed through the sinus-opening in the abdominal fascia and into the bottom of the deep pelvic lymph space, where its end was made to maintain firm pressure against the pelvic fascia lying above the left levator ani muscle. A cut was next made from che ischio- rectal incision through the levator ani muscle and the deep pelvic fascia on to the end of the probe. This being done, the probe end was passed along and out at the ischiorectal opening. A drainage-tube was then passed along the ischiorectal incision and into the extraperitoneal pelvic cavity. Long forceps were next introduced at the opening in the loin above the crest of the ilium, and the end of the tube introduced at che ischiorectal open- ing was seized, drawn along the pelvic cavity and out at the loin. This low level second tube certainly gave the freest drainage to the deep pelvic space and allowed irrigation from the loin out by the rectum, the lowest possible level. Attention was next turned to the tumefaction in the left gluteal region, and an incision was made about four inches long, beginning above, half way between the posterior superior spine of the ilium and the great trochanter, from which point it extended downward over the course of the sciatic nerve between the tuber ischii and the great trochanter. This incision, after piercing the deep gluteal fascia, opened up a very foul abscess cavity which had burrowed downward and encircled the capsule of the hip-joint. On following up this cavity with the finger, it was found thac it communicated with the deep pelvis through the great sacro- sciatic foramen, and the finger passed into the pelvic cavity through this foramen showed also extensive necrosis of the pelvic bone about the great sacrosciatic notch. Two large drainage- tubes were then passed in at the gluteal opening, through the