257 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. We ma}' now glance at the cases reported in the medical literature as true ovarian pregnancy from 1880 to 1903. At this point I desire to acknowledge my indebtedness to Kantorowitz, who, in a very able article in Volkman's Sammlung Klinischer Vortrage, in 1903, gathered the more important cases of this nature up to his day and added two cases of his own. In work- ing up the material during this time, I shall follow Kantorowitz closely. The first is one reported by Leopold (1882).—This woman was 75 years old and had been preg- nant eight times. Shortly after the birth of her fourth child and when she was 40 years of age, she conceived again. This time she gave signs of extrauterine pregnancy. About the normal end of gestation the fetus died and gave no further trouble. The three children which were born later were all delivered spontaneously and the puerperia were normal. In the right lower abdominal quadrant she had a tumor which was diagnosticated as a lithopedion. It grew harder and more solid each year, but this did not prevent her from reaching a ripe old age. There is no record of the autopsy. Here is a brief description of the specimen: The tumor weighed 1550 gm.; length, 17 cm.; breadth, 15.5 cm.; greatest circumference, 41.2 cm.; smallest circumference, 31 cm. The fetus was a female and was about 44 cm. long. The tumor showed the following connections with neighboring organs: Above and to the left, to the great omentum; below and to the left, the wholly free right tube and the right lig. ovarii. The tube runs along the tumor for 3 or 4 cm. The ovary on that side is absent. There was no microscopical examina- tion of the sac wall. This most rare and interesting case deserves more than passing notice. It is really difficult to decide the exact nature of this pregnancy. In the first place, the tube is not described with the accuracy and the detail expected in such a report. Nothing is said specifically of the fimbriated extremity; yet this very point is of vital importance in differentiating between a tubo-ovarian and purely ovarian pregnancy. Secondly, no microscopical proof has been presented to show the ovarian origin of the sac or some part of it. Thirdly, although all the organs of the fetus, even its umbilical cord, are said to be beauti- fully preserved, the placenta cannot be found at all. It is assumed by the author that a thickened portion of the sac wall is the seat of the whilom placenta. Furthermore, we read that the omentum was extensively adherent to the fetus and fed the latter by means of large blood-vessels. These prevented its disintegration. While, on the one hand, it would be most