369 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. two headings: First, the sclerotic type, in which the connective-tis- sue predominates; and secondly, the pseudo-hypertrophic type, in which the adipose tissue predominates. Not infrequently both these changes go hand in hand. In the sclerotic form, i.e. when connective-tissue predominates, the muscles are of a brown or rose- color and are thin and hard. When far advanced, such muscles present nothing but bands of fibrous tissue. In the pseudo- hypertrophic type, the muscle is of a deep red color with a light yellowish tinge, due to the deposit of fat. Its consistency is soft and flabby. Bands of connective-tissue containing layers and bundles of fat, pass through the substance of the muscle. Microscopically, besides an increase in connective-tissue and fat cells, proliferation of the nuclei and muscle-fibres is the first change to be observed. This is soon followed by a division and hypertrophy of the fibres themselves. The con- tour of an individual fibre is rounded, and on cross-section it has acquired a circular outline instead of its normal polygonal. Soon the nuclei disappear; the fibres themselves begin to show various stages of atrophy with vacuolisation in the sarcolemma, so that a typical atrophy of the fibre may be seen next to an hypertrophied fibre. The interstitial fibrous tissue is increased, especially in the localities of hypertrophied muscles. A thicken- ing of the adventitia and the blood-vessels is often observed. The deposit of fat in the interstitial tissues varies in amount. Lorenz subdivides the dystrophies according to this deposit, into atrophies, sclerotic and hypertrophic lipomatosis. SYMPTOMATOLOGY. The onset of all varieties of muscular dystrophy is insidious. The first symptom noticed in all forms, except the facio-scapulo-humeral type, is some disturbance of gait. The almost invariable complaint (in 35 of our cases) is that the patient's legs are weak, and that he falls on the slightest excitem ent. This is most noticeable on some such effort as ascend- ing stairs, which is either difficult or impossible. This is often attributed to the youth of the child, and parents console them- selves with the idea that the patient will eventually " out- grow " it. In fact, they do not seem to be at all alarmed about the child's condition, since physically it looks better nourished than other normal children. In five of our cases, the patients had never been able to use their limbs as well as other children