TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 265 with blood, in the endeavor rapidly to remove the mass in a ruptured ectopic. Finally, there is in this article one thing more than any other, which is calculated to raise doubts in the reader's mind as to the character of this pregnancy, and that is, the beautifully clear and classical description of the Graafian follicle in which this ovum is supposed to have been imbedded and developed for about six weeks. The most minute de- tails of cells of the Graafian follicle and corpus luteum are de- scribed with a realism and precision that might be the envy and despair of a text book on normal histology. It is no wonder that some parts showed degenerative changes when it is considered that the specimen had lain in a jar for a number of years before it was cut for microscopical examination. The doubt which forces itself upon the reader almost against his will is this: is it possible for cells and tissues to maintain their identity when in close proximity to a growing ovum? Is it not a fact that when the ovum becomes imbedded in a tissue and the trophoblast begins to eat its way into the maternal parts, it opens up maternal vessels and causes blood to be effused into which the villi dip for nutriment? That this process goes on for a considerable distance around the nidus, and that this effusion of blood makes the finer histological characters of tissues and cells unrecogniz- able? If this is true (and that it is, we need but refer to text-books on the subject), it must follow that it would have been mani- festly impossible to distinguish lutein cells or, for that matter, any other kind of cell, when the whole gestation-sac was per- forated by villi of the ovum contained within. One is thereby brought reluctantly to one of two conclusions: 1. Either the author was mistaken and the Graafian follicle which contained the ovum did not show all the described characteristics of a normal or nearly normal condition, or 2. The condition was exactly as described and that proves that the follicle in question was not the seat of the primary implantation of the ovum. It gees without saying that the latter of these two propositions is the one to be accepted. There are some other points that would require further explanation, such for instance, as the more exact description of the umbilical cord and its site of attachment, etc. Sufficient has been said, however, to indicate that, while the possibility of this case having been one of ovarian pregnancy is not absolutely denied, yet, if accepted as such, respect for the