394 GAS SEPSIS, EMPHYSEMA, OR PHLEGMONE. dulness, which extended from the region of the bladder upward along the line of both ureters as far as the kidneys, most marked on the right side. Palpation greatly aggravated the pain, and for this reason the interior of the bladder was not explored. On May 13 the patient voided urine without the aid of a catheter. It was violet in color, spec, grav. 1.010, acid in reaction, and quite fluid when first passed, but on standing it became thick and viscid, apparently with a mucus-like substance. It con- tained a trace of albumin, but no glucose, and 2% of urea. No indican. No blood or casts, but a few leucocytes and squam- ous cells were found on microscopic examination. There were no crystals, and no fragments of tissue indicative of a new growth in the bladder could be found. In fact, the urine furnished little or no information. On the other hand, the objective symptoms suggested a process that was rapidly exhausting the patient's vitality. The pain and the tumefaction in the hypo- gastrium pointed strongly to a malignant growth in the bladder. The pulse, temperature and respirations were in general above normal, as recorded in the accompanying chart (see Fig. 1.) Shortly after admission to the hospital the patient was given several small doses of calomel, which acted freely, after which he suffered less pain and remained fairly comfortable during the two succeeding days. The temperature and pulse receded a little, but the patient lost in strength; therefore no thorough examination of the genito-urinary tract was attempted during his stay in the hospital. Two days later, after having passed a very comfortable night, the patient became somewhat drowsy, alternating with a mild delirium. During that day he com- plained in his lucid intervals of severe cramps in the calves of the legs, and he had several involuntary stools, with one of which considerable blood was passed. Whether the blood came from the bowel or with the urine, which might have been voided at the same time, was not determined prior to death. In the light of the necropsy findings, however, it is highly probable that the blood came from the bladder. At all events he failed rapidly after this hemorrhage, the pulse became more feeble and at times almost imperceptible. He gradually passed into a comatose state and died on the afternoon of the fourth day after admission. Just before death a slight emphysematous condition was noted on the right side of the trunk and neck anteriorly.