SURGERY OF ACUTE PANCREATITIS. 223 The pain in his abdomen started in the left hypochondrium, then extended to the right. The lower abdomen was not much affected. The vomitus was small in amount and slimy, but not bloody. The urine was high- colored; the frequency of micturition increased. He complained of heart- burn and backache; also of insomnia. No jaundice. His chief complaint was cramps and vomiting. On examination his conjunctivae were slightly yellow. Heart sounds faint, no murmurs. Abdomen, general tender- ness, especially in the upper left quadrant; no masses, no rigidity. Liver dulness from fourth space to one finger's breadth above the umbilicus, where its border could be palpated. It was very tender. On September 9th he was transferred to the surgical department. In the right upper quadrant of the abdomen a hard, very tender mass was felt, with ill-defined borders, but giving the impression of being the gall- bladder. It did not extend beyond the nipple line, but the tenderness extended farther out. The mass extended almost to the umbilicus. Intestines appeared to overlie it. The abdomen was distended and tympanitic; no free fluid could be made out. Temperature 104.7째 F.; pulse, 132. Blood examination: Leucocytes, 11,400; polynuclear cells, 75%. The impression was that of a perforative peritonitis from some organ in the right upper quadrant, and of the different organs the gall bladder was considered the most probable. An incision was made parallel to the right costal border. The gall-bladder, liver, stomach and adjacent intestines were all matted together. The adhesions were separated and the gall-bladder carefully examined, but, except congestion shared by all the organs in that region, nothing abnormal was found The stomach and duodenum also presented no perforation. Finally, pus was reached somewhere near the pylorus, but behind it and the duodenum, welling up in large quantities through the posterior parietal peritoneum at a point corresponding to the head of the pancreas. The pus was thin and foul, with clumps like rice in it. The rest of the peri- toneum had been previously walled off, so it was kept clean. Drainage- tubes and gauze were inserted and the wound partly closed. A culture from the pus showed the presence of colon bacilli. The temperature declined gradually after the operation until, on the fifth day, it reached 100째 F., and remained for a long time between 100째 and 101째 F. with occasional rises due to retention; it declined again as soon as the retention was relieved. Recovery was rather slow, the dis- charge continuing for a long time, although it showed a gradual diminu- tion. On November 24, a selected diet was given, to the practical exclu- sion of the starches; after this the discharge seemed to diminish more rapidly. The urine was examined frequently. It almost always con- tained a trace of albumin and hyaline and granular casts up to the last few weeks of the patient's stay in the hospital, when it was negative. He was discharged cured on Jan. 25, 1908, and was presented by me to the matriculates of the Post-Graduate Medical School on Feb. 1, 1908. It will be seen that, when this patient was referred to the sur- geon, the symptoms were such that an exact diagnosis could not