AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. 404 eighth or ninth month of age, when the mother took the child to Bellevue Hospital on account of a persistent diarrhea. The doctors at the hospital told her that the child was blind. The child was very weak at that time, but the mother thought this was due to the diarrhea. The child died at Bellevue Hospital at the age of 18 months. The fourth child, the patient under dis- cussion, was delivered instrumentally, but in good condition, and was healthy up to about the eighth month, when the mother noticed that the child could no longer sit alone; would not take anything in the hands, or, if it did, would not hold it; never laughed, and apparently was losing its eyesight. It also suffered with diarrhea, as the first child had done. The child was breast- fed, but at the age of eight months refused to nurse. The limbs were flaccid and not spastic; the child never had any convul- sions. No history of any such trouble could be obtained from the mother as having occurred in her own family or in that of her husband. Examination of the other children in the family showed their eyes to be entirely normal and the children them- selves healthy. (No tuberculosis, no syphilis, no alcoholism, insanity or nervous troubles could be elicited in either the mother's or father's family.) The condition of the patient on admission to the Post- Graduate Hospital was as follows: The general paralysis of the limbs had progressed until the child was perfectly limp, except for the fingers and toes, which were slightly spastic. The child was listless and paid very little attention to anything, although the mother gave the history of the child laughing inordinately in the last few weeks. The child's chest was examined, with negative result. The general appearance was only fairly good. The skin was pale, the expression of the eyes vacant, and the baby started at the slightest noise! The child could be fed with the spoon. The bowels were much constipated, sometimes moving only once in a week, and stools resembled " pieces of blood." This child remained in the hospital from December 21, 1907, to February 4, 1908, with an intermission of a few days, when the mother took the child home. The temperature ranged, during the stay in the hospital, from 98° to 106.3°; pulse ranged from 100 to 144, until the day of death, when it was 164; respiration ranged from 32 to 50, until the day of death, when it