269 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. still recognizable chorionic villi, which lie here and there against the wall of the cavity. Fresh and typical villi were found only at the site of the rupture. Although the author found in different parts of the wall some degenerated trophoblastic cells, he does not appear to have found even one spot where a typical chorionic villus, covered by its two layers—the Langhans' and the syncitial cells—burrowed its way into the ovarian stroma for sustenance. This, it would seem, is the important point. Furthermore, the Fallopian tube on that side was not examined microscopically. This case can, therefore, hardly be accepted as one of proved ovarian pregnancy. Webster (1904).—This report is written so concisely and clearly that it will pay anyone to read the original article. The case, however, may not be one of true ovarian pregnancy for the following reasons: 1. The fetus was not found. The operation was done about three months after the last menstrua- tion and, therefore, the embryo must have been large enough to be visible. 2. The supposed amniotic cavity, well inside of the right ovary, contained only a few drops of turbid fluid. The wall is unbroken and does not show any rupture; nevertheless, about a half ounce of dark fluid blood was found in the utero- vesical pouch. This blood was not accounted for. Some have supposed that it came from the Fallopian tube on that side. It will be remembered that the tube on that side was not examined microscopically and, therefore, cannot be said to have been ab- solutely normal. With these important links missing, the chain of evidence cannot be said to be complete. One is, therefore, reluctantly compelled to place this case in that large, though unsatisfactory, class in which there is a probability that ovarian pregnancy existed. Freund and Thome (1906).—Woman, 20 years old, who had always suffered from irregular menstruation, considered herself pregnant be- cause of a three months' amenorrhea. The patient now suffered from continual discharge of blood from the vagina, also abdominal pain and faintness. Her abdomen enlarged and her physician, suspecting extra- uterine pregnancy, transferred her to the Strassburger School of Mid- wifery. Upon examination the following points were noticed: Ab- dominal tenderness; brownish red discharge from the vagina; uterus slightly enlarged, hard and movable. To the right and behind the uterus, a circumscribed, oval, fist-sized tumor of soft consistency was made out. At the laparotomy a persistent urachus and signs of infantile convolution of the tubes were seen. In the pelvis about 8 cc. of sero-