370 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. at corresponding ages. The eye of the layman, of course, cannot detect any fault in children who are apparently so well nourished. A little later on, however, another very characteristic symptom appears, i.e., the mode of rising from the recumbent position. In order to assume the erect posture the patient is obliged to undergo a series of peculiar movements which are almost uni- form in all cases, (see Fig. No. 1). If lying on the back, the patient first gradually turns over on the abdomen; then, while supporting himself on his hands, he raises the trunk high enough to enable him to get on his knees, the hands still being on the ground; then the knees are raised, and the patient is now in a position in which only the hands and feet touch the ground. Next, he supports his hands on the corresponding knees, gradually he brings the hands upward along the thighs and, finally, with a sudden upward jerk, the body is brought to the erect position. All these movements are very slow, and it often takes five to ten minutes before the patient finally achieves the erect posture. Later on, when the extensors of the back are involved, this mode of rising becomes impossible and the patient is unable to rise at all. The gait is peculiar; frequently it is waddling in character, resembling that of the duck. The legs are raised with diffi- culty, often dragged along the ground, and the trunk, includ- ing the pelvis, is thrown in the opposite direction, which gives the body an oscillating form of motion. In walking up- stairs (see Fig. 2) the patient is obliged to stand on one foot while he slowly brings the other up, and then supporting him- self on the knee of the resting foot with one hand, he slowly pulls himself up the stairs with the other. At this stage of the disease the tendon-jerks, such as the knee-jerk and the ankle-jerk, are very much diminished, and later on dis- appear altogether. It is worth mentioning here, that with diminution or absence of the tendon reflexes, the direct myotatic irritability is also either diminished or absent. This is unlike those conditions in which the absence of the tendon reflexes is dependent upon some break in the reflex arc and not upon disintegration of the muscle. Thus, in locomotor ataxia, in multiple neuritis, (before the atrophic stage) and immediately after death, conditions in which the tendon-reflexes are absent, the direct myotatic irritability is increased. The greatest