125 TREATMENT OF BASEDOW'S DISEASE. tion was again applied once a week, until four months after the beginning of the treatment the tumor as well as the tachycardia had disappeared. The exophthalmos had decreased, but a trace of it can still be perceived at the present time, Fig. 9. Otherwise the patient is absolutely normal. In this case no medication except the Roentgen treatment was given. In view of the indi- gent circumstances of the family, dietetic measures could not be observed. Just as in tuberculosis, financial considerations un- fortunately play an important part. Of the remaining eight cases only one failure has thus far been observed; but even here the most distressing sensation of un- easiness on the part of the patient, a girl of twenty-two years, disappeared, while the thyroid enlargement and the exophthal- mos showed no reaction. The tumor in this case was harder than in the other patients. I made it a general rule to administer the rays through my tubular diaphragm, using considerable energy with soft tubes. Irradiation lasted five minutes and was repeated every second day during the first and, as a rule, every third day during the following weeks, until there was either a marked decrease or a dermatitis reaction. After the latter had ceased, irradiation was again employed about twice a week, until complete disap- pearance or a new reaction. All patients, with the exception of the boy, whose case is described above, received fairly large doses of Fowler's solution, up to twenty drops three times a day, provided the digestion was not disturbed, in which case it was temporarily discontinued. The diet was carefully controlled. On the basis of these observations I feel justified in suggesting: 1. Slight thyroid enlargement in Basedow's disease should be treated by the Roentgen diaphragm-method at short intervals. 2. Large Basedow goitre should be treated by the combina- tion method, namely, the larger lobe is to be removed under local anesthesia and without the use of antiseptics of any kind; the other portion to be irradiated as soon as the reaction from the operation is over. 3. In advanced cases of Basedow's disease, where alarming symptoms forbid immediate operative interference, Roentgen treatment should precede the operation until improvement.