14 HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. So far as the intestinal tract and liver are concerned, it is different. The at times marked constipation; the various fermentations; the evidence of intestinal putrefaction; the light, or almost clay-like, color of the stools (without jaundice and without bile in the urine); the poor absorption of fat; the discomfort in the right upper quadrant; all these symp- toms point to the fact that the functions of the liver and in- testinal tract are seriously disturbed. Indeed, the good results of treatment applied specifically to the liver and intestinal tract confirmed this view. We have, then, in this intermittent type of the disease, periods of seemingly perfect health, interrupted by attacks having, as a rule, quite a characteristic onset, and last- ing for from several days to as many weeks. Occasionally, however, the condition is one which, instead of ending at this time, runs a subacute course for a month or so; or at any one time, the intermittent type may change to the remittent type, when the clinical picture of the patients suffering from a con- stant toxemia, with marked .exacerbations, becomes manifest. The attacks in the intermittent type begin suddenly. The patient may have a period of hypereuphoria, when for a few hours to a day, he feels particularly buoyant and energetic; then he notices that his stools are much lighter in color; that he has a discomfort in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen; that his tongue becomes coated; his face sallow; that his conjunctivae become icteroidal. At the onset he may suffer from polyuria, and the urine may be very light in color or be voided in much less quantity than normal. He feels decidedly depressed, and neuromuscularly weak; he may or may not feel drowsy; he may or may not have nausea; he very rarely has vomiting; his hands and feet become cold; he has chilly sensations, and it is frequently impossible for him to be- come warm; he has sensations of dizziness or of vertigo. He may have several or all of these symptoms. There may be numb sensations in the different parts of the body, especially, however, in the legs and fore-arms. These symptoms con- tinue until the toxic condition is relieved. If the toxemia is not relieved, the cumulative effects of the poison appear, when the severer manifestations, such as marked dyspnea, severe vertigo, violent palpitation, feelings of dissolution, and numb-