192 CARCINOMA' OF THE HEART. BY T. HOMER COFFIN, M.D. Instructor in Pathology, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. Although medical literature concerning diseases of the heart is extensive, there are few references to malignant tumors of this organ. The reason for this is two-fold: firstly, malignant tumors involving the heart are of rare occurrence, and, secondly, these tumors, when present, rarely produce symptoms which lead to a diagnosis of the condition. Tumors of the heart may be primary or secondary, benign or malignant. The malignant tumors are sarcoma and carcinoma, which are almost always secondary. Primary Heart Tumors.—Primary cardiac tumors are very rare. Nearly all forms of mesoblastic tumors have been found in the heart. The most common are fibromata, lipomata, myxomata, rhabdomyomata and cysts. Myoxmata usually occur in the auricles as nodular, glossy tumors. Rhabdomyoma usually forms multiple tumors growing upon or beneath the endocar- dium, the cells of which sometimes resemble ganglion cells. Con- genital primary tumors have been described. Thorel,1 in 3000 au- topsies, found no tumors of the heart which he could call primary. Berthensen,2 in a series of 28 primary tumors of the heart which he collected from the literature, found nine sar- comata, seven myxomata, six fibromata, two lipomata, three carcinomata *, and one cyst. In regard to the situation of the tumors he [found that seven involved the right auricle, three the right ventricle, seven the left auricle, and five the left ven- tricle. Secondary Heart Tumors.—Secondary tumors are found in the heart more frequently than primary tumors. They are meta- static, and grow from emboli of tumor cells which lodge among the trabecular of the heart, in the valve segments or in the coronary arteries. Tumor cells have been demonstrated in the heart blood by von Recklinghausen, Rieder, Weber, Lticke, *These "carcinomata" are referred to below. No microscopical ex- aminations were made; it is quite certain that they were not carcinomata.