PERITONITIS. 130 BY H. J. BOLDT, M.D. Professor of Diseases of Women, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. In the consideration of this subject I shall deal with it entirely from the standpoint of a gynecologist. In women, the main primary cause of peritonitis must be looked for in the genital tract, as becomes evident when we realize the fre- quency of infections during the puerperium: Gonorrheal infec- tion ; infections from local gynecological treatment, and infections from minor surgical interventions, the most prolific being curet- ting, which is rivalled, perhaps, by dilation of the cervical canal for sterility. In addition we have ovarian tumors; fibromata of the uterus, and carcinoma as factors in the etiology of peritonitis. The connection of the peritoneal cavity with the interior of the Fallopian tubes and the uterus must also be considered, because fluids injected into the uterine cavity sometimes find their way into the peritoneal cavity and may produce a rapidly fatal peritonitis. Only a few weeks ago a case of this kind came under our care in the Post-Graduate Hospital. A woman in a tenement house was curetted three weeks after her confinement, and an intra-uterine douche was given. She developed an in- tense and diffuse peritonitis, and her life was saved only by prompt surgical intervention, with subsequent appropriate treatment. Clinically, it suffices to divide peritonitis into infectious and non-infectious peritonitis; from the etiological point of view, and from the bedside view, into acute and chronic peritonitis, either of which may be local or diffuse. The term " idiopathic peritonitis " is obsolete, because there is no such ailment. The infectious forms of peritonitis may be divided into: 1. Septic peritonitis, which is caused by the streptococcus pyo- genes and staphylococcus pyogenes. It may be caused also by bac- terium coli and by the pneumococcus. The best examples of this variety of peritonitis are seen in puerperal peritonitis, and in the septic peritonitis following abdominal . operations. 2. Tubercular peritonitis. 3. Gonorrheal peritonitis. 4. Peritonitis of mixed infection.