SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. 35 good in the case of that form of inebriety desginated as dipso- mania, where the contract is entered into during the period of alcoholic mania, but not so if entered into during the intervals. Chronic inebriety, if shown to have affected the mind of the contracting party to the extent that he could not comprehend the nature of his act, also makes his marriage contract voidable. In the case of divorce, the laws of different states vary. In New York State, inebriety is not recognized as a ground for divorce, while in some states habitual drunkenness is so recognized (130 111. Rep. 230). In many states, legal separation may be obtained on the ground of habitual drunkenness, especially if it can be shown that the life, limb, body, or health of the other party is endangered. Adultery, rape, or other sexual acts com- mitted by the inebriate, owing to delusions of a libidinous nature and uncontrollable impulses, are, as a rule, not valid grounds for divorce, but would be if it could be shown that there was no rela- tion between the acts complained of and the delusions. In an action for breach of promise to marry, inebriety will constitute a valid defence if it can be shown that the contracting party did not know the nature and quality of his act, and such a contract will be voidable unless subsequently ratified after becoming sober. It has been held, however, that evidence that the plaintiff drank intoxicating liquors to excess, was not admissible as a defence (1 Abb. App. Dec. 2S2). Whether it will constitute a defence for the party afflicted, is a question of much difficulty unless it can be clearly shown, as stated above, that at the time of making such an executory contract the afflicted party did not know the nature and quality of his act, and if this latter is proved; it will not do more than make the contract voidable. If such contract, however, is obtained by fraud, by making the party purposely drunk, the transaction will be absolutely void, no contract having been entered into. If the defendant in sach action did not know of the inebriety of the plaintiff at the time of making the promise, such a plea would be a complete defence, especially in the case of dipsomania or chronic inebriety. If inebriety results in impotence, such a state, whether known or unknown to the parties, makes the promise voidable. In a state like New Jersey, where a statute makes the marriage of an impotent person void, such a promise is absolutely void (41 N. J. L., 13). In the case of wills, if the testator is un-