116 BIOLGGY IN INFANT FEEDING. theory and practice of infant feeding. Thus, the advancing science of biology will put in order and systematize our knowl- edge on this as on so many other vital subjects. Surely, no other subject is more important than the proper nutrition and growth of the infant. As an example, we have shown that the proteids of the various milks have developmental as well as. nutritive functions. The former function must be considered as well as the latter. As the proteids of all milks change into solids in the stomach of the young animal in a form analogous to the food of the adult animal—the object being to develop the motility of the stomach and digestive tracts for maturer work—we at once see that, from a biological standpoint, the milks of different species are not interchangeable. The mere computation of the proteid content of a certain milk is not suffi- cient. We must insist that, as nearly as possible, it shall take the same form as in the natural milk of the animal to which it is given. Mere soluble proteids, although possibly satisfactory from the chemical standpoint, will not fulfil the biological necessity and, hence, will not prove adequate for prolonged exclusive use. This is an example of how important it is to know the biology as well as the chemistry of milk. Since it is the curd (nucleo- proteid) that builds up tissue, the clinical results bear out what a knowledge of biology foretells. A recognition of the structure and function of the various digestive tracts in con- nection with the milk early furnished is, likewise, necessary to complete our knowledge of the biology of the subject. For some years the writer has studied and considered infant feeding from this standpoint, and by his teachings and writings has tried to make this method understood and followed by the profession. The articles are comprised in the following bibliography: Bibliography. " Studies in Infant Feeding. A Food for Infants with Experiments, Chemical and Physiological," N. Y. Med. Journal, Sept. 16. 1893. " Home Modification of Cow's Milk for Infant Feeding," N. Y. Med. Journal, Nov. 4, 1899. " The Place of Cereals in Infant Feeding," N. Y. Med. Record, July, 6 1901. " Principles of Infant Feeding as Ba?ed on the Evolution of Mammals,"' Arch. Pediatrics, July, 1903.