CYSTOSCOPY. 343 securely in place. Three telescopes may be used at different times in this same sheath: One with a large field for observa- tion, another to carry the catheter chambers on its under sur- face with a consequently smaller field, and a third for a right angle or prismatic view. In addition, we may use a fourth tele- scope for retrograde vision. At the proximal ends of the cath- eterizing telescope are two openings for catheters of No. o French, and these are covered with rubber perforated caps to fit snugly to the surface of the catheters to prevent leakage of fluid or air from the bladder. This instrument is now made with an inverted lamp in the beak, so that more light may be brought close to the telescope as it appears at the distal end of the sheath. This light is now so arranged as to render it unnecessary to project the telescope beyond the heel of the sheath. This makes the manipulation of the in- strument more comfortable for the patient than it was for- merly when the telescope projected for half an inch beyond the sheath into the bladder. The instrument is introduced with an obdurator in place, which is then withdrawn, leaving the sheath in the urethra and bladder. Any telescope, as required, may then be passed down the sheath and screwed in place. In order to make the accurate and easy withdrawal of the instrument possible, at the same time leaving the catheters in the ureters for a longer time, I devised a new model of Brown's modification of the Brenner cystoscope. I removed the two separate catheter-chambers completely from the catheterizing telescope. In place of them I substituted a short single cham- ber or bridge at the end of the telescope to support the catheters as they emerge from the sheath. With this model, after the catheters are in the ureters, the telescope is slightly withdrawn to permit the fingers of the left hand to grasp them firmly. The telescope is then slowly withdrawn by the right hand until the short single chamber or bridge is reached. The telescope is then completely removed from the sheath arid the catheters lie loose in its lumen. We next advance the catheters gently down its lumen as we remove the sheath. As the heel of the sheath comes to the perineum, pressure there keeps the catheters from being displaced. The catheters then lie in the ureters with the instru- ment completely out—a matter of considerable importance in a nervous patient or in one in whom the pathological condition present is causing pain.