445 EXCESSIVE GASTRIC SECRETION. hypersecretion or hyperchlorhydria. To attack our problem from this side, it would be necessary to produce these secretory anomalies artificially in animals, and this would have to be done in such a way, as to not represent a temporary alteration, but a chronic state. Experiments in this line have been made only singly and do not allow any conclusions. To explain a pathologi- cal process of any organ, it is well to take the element of physi- ology for the explanation of the pathology, if the studies cannot be made directly in corresponding pathological conditions of the animal. Pathological function is in most cases only a modi- fied or exaggerated physiological function. It might be thus possible in default of corresponding observations on diseased animals, to fall back on observations of functionally normal animals, all the more for the accordance between the man's and the dog's gastric secretion. At least this would be logically more acceptable than the assumption of hitherto unobserved functions. In order to test a human stomach with regard to its secretion, we stimulate it to this function, and by withdrawing, after a certain time, the stomachs contents and determining the amount of hydrochloric acid, we draw our conclusions. This functional test is generally made by Ewald's test-breakfast. Empirically it has been found that the stomach contents one hour after the test-breakfast show a total acidity of from 40-60. This, of course, does not .mean that 40-60 is the acidity of the pure gas- tric juice. The pure juice after test-breakfast is, for obvious reasons, not obtainable. It means that the gastric juice, after being poured into the stomach and being mixed with the bread and water, the saliva and the mucus from the mouth, throat, and the stomach, assumes this acidity. It is the diluted juice. This dilution is not one gradually increasing during digestion, for the obvious reason that the stomach evacuates its contents in successive portions, during which time new gastric juice is always being secreted. It will be, perhaps, impossible to give an exact account of the amount of hydrochloric acid present at different times during the hour of the test-breakfast, because a very complicated process of motility, secretion, absorption, and evacuation is encountered. What is learned at the end of an hour by means of a test-break- fast is only a small part of that which precedes it. It is, there-