455 HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. ducts of destruction and toxins. Finally, the bath prevents abnormal loss of heat, as it is in our power to keep the water at a temperature at which loss of heat is impossible. Concerning the wounds, the local effect cannot be too strongly emphasized, as all observers unanimously state, that incident to the maceration of the epidermis and sloughs, infection is made nearly impossible; lymphangitis, erysipelas and pyemia are prevented, absorption of toxic products is ideally avoided, and the sloughs loosen more quickly. Altogether, it is not saying too much to state that, although statistics are not conclu- sive and are impossible,. the number of deaths after burns must be decidedly reduced, especially in burns of the first and second degrees. Sonnenburg found that animals remained alive after extensive artificial burns, if the spinal cord had before been cut, so that the over-excitation could not be transmitted to the central organs and the blood pressure did not fall. Valentin and Schiff found that varnished animals lived if they were kept warm and loss of heat thus prevented. Both phenomena are provided by the water treatment. As the third aim in the treatment of burns, I mentioned the prevention of injuries due to irrational manipulation. I do not hesitate thus to qualify the procedure of our surgeons, as outlined, for instance, in Eulenburg's " Real-Enzyklopadie:" " In green and extensive burns a thorough cleansing should be done, if possible, under narcosis, by means of water, brush and soap and followed by disinfection with ether or weak disinfecting solutions." Nothing more clearly illustrates to what indiscrimi- nate bacteria-hunting may lead than the fact, that we can hardly imagine a method better adapted to remove precious layers of epi- dermis, to reduce the vitality of the remaining cells and to eradicate the remnants of epithelial cells that may be left in the fundus of a gland. Not only this: the whole procedure has often to be done without narcosis and is then an ordeal comparable only to the mediaeval tortures for expelling evil spirits. Next to this professional criticism stands that of laymen, who covered burns with grated potatoes, sauerkraut, clay, crushed fleshy plant leaves, milk, flour and other substances more pre- tentious than water; all these act by cooling or moisture. To the long line of queer stuffs may be added those which are