353 A PLEA FOR THE SUPERIORITY OF PANAS' OPERATION FOR CONVERGENT AND DIVERGENT STRABISMUS. ANALYSIS OF 396 OPERATED PATIENTS. BY EDWARD S. PECK, M.D. Professor of Diseases of the Eye, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. This brief contribution on a trite subject in ophthalmic surgery, by a method comparatively new but eminently suc- cessful, is based upon sufficient clinical results to entitle it to credence. In two former papers on this topic,* the pathology . of strabismus, with a study of the various scientific theories as to its causation and possibilities, was elaborated in some detail. It is essential to the clinical feature t of the present contribution to confine its trend to the behavior of the ocular muscles involved in the strabismic act, convergent and di- vergent, and to the propriety and limitations of the necessary surgical acts. The literature of strabismus is voluminous and antedates the scientific literature of ophthalmology itself. Contributions of value from an historic, if not from a surgical point of view, go farther back than contributions to the plastic surgery of the eyelids and adjacent parts of the face. The discovery of the ophthalmoscope b}^ Helmholtz; the treatise by Donders, "Errors of Refraction and Accommodation;" the studies of Javal and the accomplishment of the Javal-Schiotz ophthal- mometer; the contributions of Horner, Roosa, Ely and de Schweintz on hyperopia and strabismus; of Horner, Roosa and Weber on errors of refraction, especially astigmatism and their causative association with headache, migraine, conjunctivitis and blepharitis; the studies of Valk, Savage and Stevens on the physiology of ocular muscles and their relative dynamic power with reference to eye-strain and strabismus—all these, and many more of acceptable worth, are contributions to the many- * The Pathology of Strabismus. The Operation of Panas of Paris. Clinical Analysis of 106 Cases Medical Brief, St. Louis, November, 1903. | A Contribution to the Study of Strabismus, with Especial Reference to the Operation of Panas for its Relief. An Analysis of 225 Operations on 120 Subjects. Post-Graduate, July, 1905.