ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. 433 physiological salt solution may be necessary to cleanse the bowel as well as to increase fluid absorption. Exercise should comprise at first passive massage and re- sistent motions; later the active use of all muscles. Particular attention should be directed to increased functional use of the abdominal muscles by the exercises. The exercises should preferably be enjoyable and in the open air. Under no cir- cumstances should exercise be carried to the point of fatigue, though a brief rest after each period of exercise will accelerate the gain. Mechanical support is directed to applying pressure to that segment of the abdomen below the umbilicus. While in no cases do radiographs show replacement of hollow viscera, yet effectual support of the lower segment does relieve the symptoms and aids materially in improving the nutrition of ambulant cases. Improvement of nutrition may accomplish only the relief of the symptoms, yet in some cases it effects com- plete fixation, when the mechanical support can be dispensed with. Mechanical support, except in separation or excessive relaxa- tion of the abdominal muscles, should be employed only as a temporary expedient until the above four means of improvement can accomplish their aim. The mechanical method selected is of little moment, but it is absolutely essential that the lower segment be held back; other- wise, there will be no benefit. It may be noted here that the ap- plication of this support relieves symptoms even when there is no prominence of the lower segment, and without raising the lower border of the stomach. The pressure exerted probably dimin- ishes both the strain on the ligaments and the chronic congestion, and in that way relieves the symptoms. Such drugs should be employed as will improve the tone and meet the symptoms at the moment. In nervous cases, it may be necessary for a while to give sedatives or hypnotics, but they should be used only as a temporary expedient and never for pro- longed periods. Glycerophosphates, iron, arsenic, ergot, cocoa, strychnin, may all be employed. Cathartics, however, should be employed only on rare occasions, depending upon the tonics and irrigations to empty the bowel. When there are definite symptoms from displacement of an organ, operation must be resorted to. The pelvic organs