272 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. point." The last sentence of this report may be accepted as the summary. The case can, therefore, not be regarded as one of proved ovarian pregnancy. Kelly and McIlroy (1906).—V-para, aged 33 years. The last child was born two and a half years before admission. All puerperia were normal. Menstrual period delayed two weeks. She was seized with a sudden attack of pain in both iliac regions. No vomiting. No tumor palpable. Uterus movable, and slightly enlarged. The left appendage forms an enlarged and tender mass. The right appendage is tender, but shows no enlargement. She has been bleeding from the uterus ir- regularly for about a month. She was treated by the expectant plan for ten days. Laparotomy was performed almost three months after her last menstruation. A blood cyst, the size Of a large plum, was con- nected with the left ovary. The left ovary and tube were removed. The right adnexa were normal. A few months later the specimen was examined. On cutting the tumor no embryo was found. Traces of chorion, amnion and villi were found in the central portion of the blocd mass. The upper part of the specimen is undoubtedly ovarian tissue. Nowhere can villi be seen in direct contact with ovarian stroma. As the fetus was not seen nor its place of nidation proved to have been in the ovary, and not even one villus traced into ovarian tissue to prove that the ovum actually got its sustenance from this organ, one can hardly agree with the authors of this report that the case was true ovarian pregnancy. M. Chenot (Gynecologic, December, 190G, p. 481).—Woman, 29 years of age, entered the hospital Nov. 13, 1906. She showed symptoms of ruptured ectopic. Her menstruation was delayed several days. She menstruated regularly Sept. 16, 1906. As she did not see the next period, she took a large amount of apiol. On October 20, she got violent abdominal pains. Near the end of October she had metrorrhagia and passed a big clot and fainted. The bleeding stopped and she remained well until November 13, when she entered the hospital. She presented all the symptoms of collapse, and on palpation no tumor in the abdomen could be made out. The breast contained colostrum. On laparotomy a dermoid cyst was found in the left side. A ruptured ectopic was found on the right side. This was removed. The woman recovered. The histological examination of the specimen will be published later. The tube is greatly thickened and the fimbria; hardly visible. No mention of a fetus. Only an empty sac adherent to the apparently pathological tube. This case cannot be considered an ovarian pregnancy. Herrenschmidt and Rigollot Simonot (Bull, dc la Societe Ana- lomique de Paris, 1906, LXXXI, p. 289).—Woman, 25 years old; nulli- para. Last regular period, Jan. 27, 1906, lasted three days. On Feb-