207 THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. that may be due to many other conditions; yet it is the one most commonly related in the office of the oculist. As a corallary to this paper I would refer the reader to a recent paper by Cogge- shall and Maccoy4 on this subject, in which they take the position that "eye-strain headache is due, not only to a refractive error but may be due to a muscular imbalance;" and on the subject of migraine, these writers state that an individual with migraine, and having a decided neuropathic diathesis, will probably have an error of refraction or a muscular imbalance as the exciting cause of the phenomena of migraine. At the same time we must admit that other conditions of auto-intoxication may be the underlying cause of the pain. It goes without argument that the diagnosis of eye-strain must be along certain lines that necessarily require certain special training. It is also, without doubt, a part of the work of a physician, a part of his armatarium for the relief from the ills that flesh is heir to; and if the demands of a so called civili- zation require more use of the eyes than in the good old days we like to talk about, then these demands must result in certain symptoms, be they functional or not, which come within the prac- tice of medicine as much as the mechanical fittings of a truss or a brace for an orthopedic deformity. An optician may be qualified to fit certain refractive cases and may do it perfectly, but he is not qualified to do all the work that is required for the correction of all cases of eye-strain; while the law requires and demands that all conditions of the eyes that may arise do come within the domain of the practice of medicine. I do not believe that the eye and its appendages are any different today from what they were fifty years ago; our population has increased an hundred fold, our opportunities to use the eyes at the near point have enormously increased, and our boys and girls are con- stantly using the eyes reading the many books and papers so freely and cheaply supplied. The result is that we must meet this con- dition by all the means at our command, when the annatomical condition of the individual requires our aid. The mere fitting of glasses is not the sine qua non of the treatment of eye-strain.. Many other conditions must be taken into our consideration, and indeed the intelligent practitioner will realize that the correction of a refractive error, or that of an imbalance of the 4. Journal Am. Med. Association, January 4, 1908.