159 PRIMARY EPITHELIOMA OF THE VAGINA IN A PA- TIENT UNDER TWENTY YEARS OF AGE. BY GEORGE GRAY WARD, JR., M.D. Professor of Diseases of Women, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. The following case was referred to me by Dr. F. W. Best, of Port Jervis, N. Y., and was admitted to my service at the Post- Graduate Hospital on February 13, 1908. The history was as follows: Edith P. was 20 years of age on January 21, 1908. Born near Middletown, N. Y. Has been married for four years, but has never been pregnant. Her menstruation is regular every 28 days, duration three to four days, and without pain. She has never had any illness or injury prior to this trouble, and her weight last summer was 170 pounds. Her present illness dates from October, 1907, when she first noticed some vaginal discharge, which was tinged with blood. Dyspareunia was also becoming marked. The discharge later became offensive and defecation was painful, and, as she was losing weight and becoming debilita- ted, she consulted her family physician'. As it was thought advisable for her to see a specialist, she came under my care. On examination the patient presented the appearance of a strongly built country girl, who was^unusually pallid. She stated that she had lost 20 pounds since October last. A care- ful inquiry could elicit no evidence of syphilis. The family history was negative. As to carcinoma, the possibility of the patient's disease being tubercular in nature, was in mind; and a careful inquiry made as to tuberculosis in the family was likewise negative. Her husband, who accompanied her to the hospital, was of frail constitution and of a tubercular type. He was in fair health, but had had pneumonia last winter. Examination of the patient showed the heart and lungs to be normal. The abdominal organs gave no signs of disease. Her temperature was 99°, pulse 88. The external genitals were those of a nulipara and perfectly normal. On exposing the vagina with a retractor there was revealed an area of deep ulceration of the entire posterior vaginal wall from just in front of the cervix to the site of the