382 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. P. I. First symptom was noticed at 7h years of age. Parents remarked that while walking upstairs he supported his body on thighs with his hands, and also that he stumbled frequently. Six or eight months later he began to walk on tip-toes. From this time he rapidly grew worse and his shoulders began to be thrown back. The family physician attributed this to a habit of the child. Patient gradually became thinner, espec- ially in legs. He never lost the power to use hands. Status.—Boy slightly underdeveloped for his age. Nutrition good. Adipose moderate in amount. Double equino-varus. Myotatic irritability absent. Station good. Typical " rooster " gait. Marked lordosis of spinal column, with shoulders thrown far back and chest forward. On attempting to arise from re- cumbent position undergoes a series of movements typical of dystrophy. Some cervical, axillary, and inguinal nodes are palpable. Adenoids present. Teeth: Upper two cervical in- cisors large in proportion to the other teeth, notched and some- what corrugated. Movements of head and neck normal. Facies des sphinx. Post-spinal muscles moderately atrophic. Marked wasting of pectoralis and latissimus dorsi, and to a lesser extent of biceps and triceps. Tendon reflexes markedly diminished. Superficial reflexes present. Extremities cold and cyanotic. Testicles undescended. Calves and musculature of thighs atrophied. The thighs, six inches above upper border of patella, are 12 inchesj in circumference on each side. Type of Contractures.—J. L., 13 years, 9 months. F. H. Father, as well as patient's brother, give indefinite history of lues. 'Mother suffers from pains in legs. Mother's brother insane. One uncle died of tuberculosis. Six children living and well. Fifth pregnancy resulted in miscarriage. P. H. Patient one of twins. Other twin has weak heart and complains of pain in extremities. Birth normal. Backward in walking. Not as bright as other twin in mind or action. Measles at 9 months, complicated by pneumonia, high fever, no convulsions. P. I. Healthy up to 5 years. After exposure he was very sick with high fever and coma lasting two days. Attended school until 7 years. At about this time family noticed that he did not walk as he used to and did not run about like other boys. Also noticed that both scapulae flared. Easily fatigued. Since illness