SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. 34 himself of reason, he can claim no exemption from the ordinary consequences of crime (Ray, Med. Jur. 574). Delirium tremens is classified as a form of insanity in which the party is not responsible for his acts, in Wharton and Stille's Med- ical Jurisprudence (1905). Mania a potu (delirium tremens) is given as an excuse for crime, although drunkenness is not (100 N. C. 457). Such a decision, from a medical standpoint, is irreconcil- able with the fact that mania a potu is but a form of drunkenness. Another series of cases makes a distinction that, where dipso- mania effects the intellect and not merely the will, it may be a defense (105 Cal. 486). Still another distinction is made that where a person, in regard to a particular act, though knowing right from wrong, has lost his power to discriminate, in conse- quence of mental disease, he will be exempt from his crime (115 N. C. 807). Dipsomania, in the present state of judicial opinion, would hardly be considered a valid defence in a capital case, though there have been decisions which have allowed it, holding the question whether there is such a disease and whether the act was committed under its influence to be questions of fact for the jury (40 Conn. 130). The law does, however, recognize two kinds of inculpable drunkenness: one produced by the "unskilfulness of the physician", and that produced by the " contrivance of enemies," (Russ, Cr. 8). To these may, perhaps, be added one in which the party drinks no more liquor than he does habitually and without becoming intoxicated, but which exerts an unusually potent effect upon the brain, in con- sequence of certain pathological conditions (5 Gray. 80). In the case of Arson, the distinction is made, and it has been held that inebriety is no defense where it appears that the act of setting on fire was wilfully done, it being of no consequence what the intention was (2 Edin. Sel. Cas. 80). In negotiable instru- ments, drunkenness is no defense as against an innocent pur- chaser for valin (91 Pa. 17). The inebriate's contracts are not void, but voidable only (8 Am. Rep. 240). When deprived of all consciousness, strong presumption of fraud is raised, and on this latter ground courts may interfere (1 Ves. 19). Marriage is a contract, and if entered into by an inebriate lacking contractional capacity, is voidable but may be subse- quently ratified upon returning to a condition of sobriety and thus make the contract binding. This statement also holds