391 SUPPURATIVE LESIONS OF THE PHARYNX. of the tongue, in the region of the lingual tonsil. It occurred in a young man of 19 years, who suffered with hypertrophic turbinals, but was otherwise healthy. This abscess may have been due to injury, as by a fragment of bone, though no such history was given. The condition known as " acute phlegmon of the pharynx," which occurs in adults, and of which occasional cases are reported, is an exceedingly virulent form of infection in which a fatal outcome is to be expected. The writer has had no personal ex- perience with this condition; but a recent case of phlegmon, due to injury of the pharynx by a bone, illustrates very well the danger of attempting treatment of throat conditions without an adequate view of the parts involved. The patient was an old man, weighing about 350 pounds. He had the ill-luck to get a, fragment of bone stuck in his pharynx. He sought the help of the nearest physician, who attempted to clear the obstruction by pushing the fragment down to the esophagus with a " brush " or " bougie " made for this purpose. Instead of succeeding, he evidently pushed the bone through the wall of the pharynx. I saw him some days later, and found a swollen cushion of mucous membrane extending from the lower part of the left posterior faucial pillar to the side of the larynx. I incised this swelling at several points, but was unable to find the bone spicule. It seemed possible that the throat had suffered only a scratch from the passing bone, which had, perhaps, been safely pushed down by the brush. This was appar- ently borne out by the marked improvement following local treat- ment with adrenalin and peroxide of hydrogen. A week later an abscess was found in the pharynx wall, which became quite extensive. As I did not believe this patient would survive the operative treatment necessary to explore the diseased parts, I declined to undertake it. He was, however, operated upon by a very skilful surgeon. The spicule of bone was discovered and the abscess drained, but the patient died the next day. The plan employed by the physician who first saw this case has long been taught in standard works on surgerv, but it is archaic and the experience proves the necessity of avoiding any manipulations about these parts that cannot be correctly guided throughout by observation with a laryngoscope.