POST-GRADUATE INSTRUCTION IN PEDIATRICS. 119 unless he has had the very exceptional good fortune to have spent half a year in a hospital devoted to diseases in children. During a twenty years' service as teacher in pediatrics, the- writer has not met a single young hospital graduate other than ex-internes of a children's hospital, who, on inquiry, did not freely admit his lack of practical knowledge regarding a line of professional work which makes up one half the practice of the family physician. It is evident, therefore, that the facilities for acquiring the knowledge necessary to combat preventable infantile sickness and mortality are totally inadequate and that more practical instruction along the lines indicated is urgently needed. How best to meet the demand for practical instruction in pedi- atrics has taxed the efforts of those devoted to this kind of work. The value of a good post-graduate course lies in the fact that under guidance of competent teachers one may first see a pa- tient in the "dispensary," then in the hospital ward, where medical, operative or specialistic treatment is carried out in detail. One may examine the patient, study his " chart," examine blood, sputum, excreta, puncture fluids in the lab- oratory, and if the patient dies, one may witness the autopsy and examine the specimens obtained. Dispensary Clinics.—A large ambulatory service is the sine qua non feature of a good medical school. Dispensary work (apart from its value to the community) is excellent discipline for acquiring the art of making more or less accurate diagnoses and sharpening the power of observation. Hospital Wards in Connection with the Clinical Laboratory.—The " wards " in connection with a clinical laboratory afford every facility for accurate study and proper treatment of patients. The course and termination of disease may be watched, and it is frequently possible to "prove the case " by transillumination,, surgical procedure, or autopsy. The " wards " are available for illustrating and demonstrating methods of prophylaxis (ventilation, isolation, disinfection and protective inoculation), for diet kitchen work, palatable medication, for surgical, ortho- pedic and other manipulative or electrical therapy and for teaching physical diagnosis and diagnostic punctures. Bedside Instruction.—Making rounds with a large class of stu- dents is of little value. To make bedside observation available