ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 299 tion from Sanger, Stratz and others. Labusquiere, after a search- ing criticism of the subject, comes to the conclusion that "the proposition of Nagel, Veit, Meyer, according to which a hema- tosalpinx is the criterion of a previous infection, is not sustained —it is false." Doderlein and Kronig, in their text-book on gynecology, just published, make the most serious attack on the theory. We translate freely: "As clinicians, we are not friendly disposed to the Veit-Nagel theory. We rather agree with Mainzer, because two segments of the Mullerian ducts are recognized in the lining epithelium of which the lower (which has no cavity and is filled with large four-cornered cells) becomes the vagina. If the vaginal portion of the Mullerian ducts is differentiated from the outset by being solid and remaining solid longer than the other portion of the ducts, it remains an anatomical fact that the possi- bility of the vagina remaining solid is supported even with a normally developed uteius present. Should the opinion of Berry Hart prove correct, namely, that the vaginal epithelium does not arise at all from the Mullerian ducts, the entire argument of Nagel falls to the ground; for formed membranes which, accord- ing to Nagel, measure several millimeters in thickness and con- tain blood vessels, may be congenital. This is conceded by Nagel. Veit is of the conviction that hematosalpinx associated with gynatresia is due to an infection; otherwise, the necessary closure of the tube cannot be explained. The contents of a hematosalpinx, according to him, are the products of bacterial inflammation of the tube. That this is not essentially true, is proved by analogy with tubal pregnancy where, without infec- tion, the escape of aseptic blood into the peritoneal cavity mav cause adhesion of the fimbriated end of the tube. Veit has, moreover, acknowledged that atresia of the abdominal end of a tube may certainly occur without infectious processes. With these intellectual giants at variance, how shall I classify my case? With neai'ly a total absence of the vagina and nor- mally developed uterus and appendages, the Nagel-Veit theory would compel us to label it as an acquired vaginal atresia. On the other hand, the complete absence of the hymen, the dis- tinctly undeveloped labia minora, as well as the smallest evidence of a vestibule, give us reason to suspect a lack of development in the lowest portion of the genital tract. Besides this, the argu-