48 THROMBOPHLEBITIS OF THE SIGMOID SINUS. This case represents recovery after true pyemia following purulent otitis media with sinus thrombosis and consecutive inflammatory involvement of the deep jugular vein. Case II.—Female, 34 years of age, with chronic otitis media, not responding to ordinary treatment. On May 7, 1903, a well- known otologist performed a mastoid operation, which, though done with all the usual care, was followed by severe local in- flammation with general manifestations. Slowly an infiltra- tion developed on the corresponding side of the neck. When seen by me in consultation on May 22, 1903, there was edema and tenderness of the neck and face, evidently due to a suppurative phlebitis. Operation done the following day, proved the deep jugular vein to be completely thrombosed. The vein was carefully followed downward toward its junction with the subclavian; but the thrombus was found to extend beyond such part of the trunk as could be made accessible; it evidently reached down to the very junction of jugular and sub- clavian. It was not deemed advisable to resect the clavicle in order to gain better access. Of course, it was very tempting, after the vein had been split as far downward as was possible, to pull the thrombus out of the lowest portion of the jugular and then, after sufficient hemorrhage had washed out the parts, to place the ligature. However, there were quite some adhesions between venous wall and thrombus, which latter, in this region, did not show any suppurative foci; besides, the dan- ger of some small particle being carried off by the strong blood current of the subclavian, and then causing mischief in the lungs, was considered. The lower part of the vein was, therefore, left undisturbed, while the upper section was thoroughly cleared of all debris, but not excised, as the patient was weak and the operation had to be finished as quickly as possible. The entire wound was tamponed with aseptic gauze, which was kept moist. The patient made a slow recovery, without any further compli- cations. She is in perfect health to-day. Reviewing these two cases, it will be seen that extirpation of the deep jugular vein, as well as mere incision with thorough removal of the thrombus and drainage, can effect a permanent cure. Although it would be almost presumptuous to draw any conclusions from these two cases, I personally would, never-