276 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. cutting off the blood supply through the ovarian artery. A similar ligature was passed around the Fallopian tube, near the uterine cornu, and tied. This controlled the supply from the uterine artery. Finally, another ligature was passed around the ovarian ligament and tied. The ovary, also the part of tube and ovarian ligament situated between the ligatures, were cut away with scissors and removed. A running catgut suture united the cut ends of the broad ligament, leaving no raw surface ex- posed. The opposite ovary and tube were drawn out of the wound for inspection. They appeared to be normal and were returned to the abdomen. After inspection of the pelvis, to be sure that there was no oozing, the abdomen was closed by tier sutures. The patient made an uneventful recovery. At this writing, 15 months after the operation, she is enjoying the best of health. Pathological Report. The specimen — obviously the left ovary — was irregularly spherical in shape and slightly flattened from before backwards. It was about 8x7x6 cm. in size and weighed about 36 gm. Its surface was smooth and glistening and mottled in fairly large patches, the color varying from bluish gray to burgundy- red. On the postero-superior border of its proximal surface a short bundle of connective tissue fibres marked the place of attachment of the ovarian ligament. On the opposite or ex- ternal border the left Fallopian tube was attached by well- marked ovarian fimbriae. The tube, with its fimbriated ex- tremity in apposition to the ovary, but not adherent to the latter, was open and apparently normal in every way. It was about 8 cm. long. The organ was firm in consistency, except in one spot at the lower border, which was darker in color than the rest of the organ and noticeably softened to the touch. Fearing that the embryo, which was expected to be very small, might be lost in the blood clot and the specimen thus destroyed, it was decided not to follow the natural impulse of cutting the ovary open, but on the contrary to harden it first. Consequently, the specimen was placed into Pick's solution—a mixture of Formalin and artificial Carlsbad salt—for a week, to harden and also to retain and fix permanently its beautiful markings and coloring. The ovary was then taken to the Post-Graduate Hospital Laboratory and, in the presence of Professor Henry T. Brooks