iii DANIEL BENNETT ST. JOHN ROOSA, A.M., M.D., LL.D. Dr. Daniel Bennett St. John Roosa, President of the Cor- poration and Faculty of the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, died suddenly, on March 8, at 8 o'clock, at his home, 20 East Thirtieth Street. Death was caused by heart disease. He was in his seventieth year. Dr. Roosa was born in Bethel, N. Y., on April 4, 1838. He was of colonial descent on all sides of his family, and all his great-grandfathers were officers in the Continental line. His great-grandfather, Isaac, was a Captain in one of the New York regiments. Dr. Roosa was educated in the Bethel district school and at the academies of Monticello, N. Y., and Hones- dale, Pa. He entered Yale in 1856, but was compelled to leave on account of poor health and studied under a private tutor until the following year, when he entered the medical depart- ment of the University of New York. He also studied chem- istry under Dr. John W. Draper. He received the degree of M.D. in 1860, and in competitive examination won the place of assistant house surgeon at New York Hospital. The following April Dr. Roosa answered President Lincoln's call for volunteers and was appointed assistant surgeon to the Fifth New York Volunteers. Completing his three months' enlistment, Dr. Roosa returned to New York and finished his term of service in the New York Hospital as house surgeon. Leaving the hospital he went to Europe to study in the ophthalmic clinics in Berlin and Vienna. In June, 1863, he re-enlisted with the Twelfth Regiment of New York, returning at the end of his enlistment to take up private practice in New York. From 1863 to 1882 he was professor of diseases of the eye and ear in the University of the City of New York, now New York Uni- versity, and from 1875 to 1880 he held a similar chair in the University of Vermont. He received an honorary degree of M.A. from Yale and an LL.D. from the University of Vermont. He was the founder of the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and to date its only president. Had he lived until next month he would have celebrated his twenty-fifth year as head