182 UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. where the pulmonary symptoms have been made out with the usual auscultatory signs, then a good-sized exploring needle should be inserted and the presence of pus determined, if pos- sible. Early operation with liberation of the localized pus foci in the lung, will undoubtedly avert more extensive damage by preventing perforation into, and infection of, the pleural cavity, or breaking down of a large abscess cavity in the lung itself. One of the cases that I have operated upon for an abscess of the lung, and which I have not included in this report, has since developed undoubted signs of tuberculosis and is still under observation in the Babies' Wards. Had his disease remained confined to the lung, I should have operated upon him again, but the appearance of a kyphosis about the seventh dorsal vertebra demonstrated the fact that he has other tubercular foci. I have not, therefore, considered it wise to proceed further surgically in his case. In order to handle these cases properly, it is essential to have a well-defined technique; to overcome the fear attendant upon operations on the chest, and to recognize the fact that almost all of the statements made in the text-books in regard to the collapse of the lung when the chest wall is opened, are based upon improper physiologic observations. If the lung is allowed to collapse when a pulmonary abscess is present, it is impossible to locate the abscess unless it is of large size and has no communication with a bronchus. When the lung collapses it presses the contents of the abscess into the bronchi so that it escapes through the mouth, leaving no indication of the point where it existed. This was well illus- trated in a case that I operated upon in the Post-Graduate Hospital for Dr. Leonard Weber—a young girl who had inhaled a tack and had developed an abscess in the upper part of the lung. I had no difficulty in getting down through a good free opening over the area where the X-ray revealed the abscess, but when the chest cavity was opened the lung was completely collapsed and the anesthetist called our attention to the free escape of pus from the mouth. I carefully palpated the lung but could not discover the abscess. In this case my technique was at fault; I should not have allowed the lung to collapse. In operating upon an abscess of the lung now-