MASTOIDEOTYMPANOTOMY 233 was used. A thin slough formed over the surface of the wound. No granulations appeared for a long time. On the 13th day of the convalescence the patient's mental condition had much improved. The slough was detaching from the wound and granulations were appearing. On the 17th day the middle ear was dry. On the 35th day of convalescence the canal, drum membrane and mastoid wound were healed. Watch heard at two inches from the right ear. On the 67th day the left ear had healed after cleansing treatment and the watch was heard at 10 inches; on the operated side the watch was heard at 4 inches. On the 109th day the patient said she heard best with the right ear. The watch was heard in this ear at eight inches. Post aural scar very slight, with an even surface. The perfora- tion in the drum membrane had closed. On the 111th day tympanic suppuration recurred in the right ear. The suppura- tion in the right ear again ceased two days later. On the 135th day of convalescence the watch was heard at 25 inches in the right ear; in the left ear at 11 inches. The post aural scar had very much diminished and scarcely showed. Case II.—Patient a man 65 years old. He had no ear history previous to this attack. It began 12 days before the operation with headache, dizziness, nausea and discharge from the ear. The ear condition seemed to the patient to have been brought on by an attack of grippe. At the time of operation there was extreme tenderness over and behind the mastoid tip. There was also slight tenderness over the mastoid antrum. Profuse discharge of foul pus. Tympanic membrane bulged superiorly. I made the usual crescentic post-aural incision and opened the bone by removal of the mastoid tip. I found an extensive cellular area involved and filled with granulations. There was no pus except in the zygomatic cells and cells at the base internal to the digastric fossa. The softened bone required an extensive dissection, but I did not uncover the dura. I removed the posterior wall of the osseous meatus clear up to the annulus and opened the tympanum from above and externally. I closed the external wound with deep and superficial sutures and applied a wet saline dressing. On the seventh day of convalescence the posterior wound had healed solid by first intention. On the 18th day the perforation of the drum membrane had