429 ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. The subjective symptoms, therefore, may be classed as di- gestive, nervous and obstructive, due to displacement inter- fering with the function of an organ. The digestive disturbances are belching, flatulence, attacks of colic from formation of toxic and irritating products, and diarrhea occurring in attacks, or constipation. The nervous system is easily thrown out of balance and little happenings irritate, causing more or less complete loss of self- control. The temper or disposition changes and becomes less cheerful in its outlook; even a distinct psychosis develops. The displaced stomach may retain a fair motor power and have only a mild stagnation, or in severe degrees of displace- ment even retention may exist. Retention may be intermittent or continuous, and add greatly to the severity of the symptoms. Displacement of the intestines probably always precedes dis- placement of the stomach and may give most of the distress ascribed erroneously to the stomach. The right kidney may be displaced downward with or without gastroptosis, and may or may not add distinctive symptoms. An intermittent hydronephrosis may occur, or severe attacks of pain with fever, as described by Dietl. The displacement of the kidney may interfere with the bile-duct sufficiently to cause jaundice, as related by Treves. In a small percentage of cases the left kidney may be displaced and give symptoms, but this is rare. Displacement of the liver may cause jaundice, severe or only a slight chronic icteroidal hue, due to the chronic hepato-in- testinal-toxemia. The pain may be severe and distressing when in the erect position. Congestion due to the displacement and interference with the venous return through the vena cava may affect the heart's action. Dislocation of the spleen is rare. The dislocated, tender organ may be mistaken for tumors of the right iliac fossa or of the pelvis. Cardioptosis may be present in severe grades of relaxation when the diaphragm has been pulled down by prolonged absence of support, or direct tension through the round ligament and liver. In apparently slight as well as severe grades of relaxation there is chronic congestion of the venous vessels in the abdo-