CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. 150 attachments carefully dissected. The astragalus was not dis- turbed. The tendo-Achillis was divided; the sawn plain surface of the tibia was placed in contact with the articular surface of the astragalus, thorough drainage of the joint established, aseptic dressings applied, and the foot and ankle were enveloped in a plaster splint including the knee-joint and thigh. At the end of five months the new joint was formed. Nine months after the operation he had good motion of his joint, and was able to walk upon it without assistance of cane or brace." In May, 1896, a gentleman, 35 years of age and weighing 225 pounds, came to my office on crutches, to consult me about his foot. Eight months before, he had stepped into the turn- table pit in a railroad yard, falling a distance of twelve feet, striking on his feet, producing a Pott's fracture of the right leg. He had been treated by two physicians in a neighboring city, but up to the time I saw him had been unable to walk without the aid of crutches. The foot and ankle presented the charac- teristic appearance of an outward deformity following Pott's fracture, with much eversion and outward displacement of the foot, as shown in a photograph No. 4 taken at that time to- gether with a radiograph, No. 5. It shows exactly the points of fracture and the displace- ment of bones. The fibula has united with its lower end de- flected outward; the inner malleolus is still separated from the tibia, but united by fibrous union. The bones of the leg are separated, and a growth of new bone appears on the inner side of the fibula. The upper, outer corner of the astragalus is rest- ing between tibia and fibula. On June 15, 1896, I operated on the ankle, at the New York Post-Graduate Hospital, following in principle the method of reproducing the conditions existing immediately after fracture. After first making the Langen- beck incision for excision of the ankle, I divided the fibula with a chisel where it had been fractured. (See Radiograph No. 5.) A curved incision around the end of the tibia through the fibrous union of the inner malleolus, opened the joint. An attempt to reduce the dislocation was then made without success. With a chisel, f of an inch was then resected from the horizontal plane of the tibia, (see radiograph No. 5) and the cut surface so gauged out as to conform to the upper surface of the astragalus. The foot could now be brought only partly into line—the growth