UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 184 cautions are taken to prevent such collapse, because the at- mospheric pressure is naturally greater than the intra-thoracic pressure. It is also absolutely true if both pleural cavities are opened at the same time. In order to carry out the plan that I have outlined it is evi- dently essential that the lung and pulmonary pleura retain their elasticity and capacity for expansion. It is also necessary to demonstrate that expansion can take place without the applica- tion of any external positive pressure, as suggested by Robinson and others, or without the complicated cabinets for the applica- tion of negative pressure suggested by Sauerbruch. The pleura must also retain its irritability. The Estlander and Schede operations were devised at a time when it was supposed that any interference with a lung that was bound down could only result disastrously to the patient. They believed that in empyema, the pleural space having been converted into an abscess cavity, the only way to close that cavity was by getting an agglutination of its surfaces. All the rules of surgical procedure up to this time were opposed to interference with the lung itself, and as every one was con- vinced that a lung once collapsed must always remain in that condition, the only possible method of closing the cavity was to remove the bony structures over a sufficiently large area to allow the two pleural surfaces to come in contact. The Fowler and Delorme operation was a tremendous step forward. These operators, however, were still bound by the idea that if a pleura had been thickened and contracted by the formation of an abscess over its surface, it had lost all its elasticity and would not allow of expansion of the lung itself. They therefore advocated decortication of the lung, recognizing the fact that the pulmonary tissue itself was capable of re-expansion if the limiting pleura was removed. In this way they made a distinct advance over the Estlander-Schede methods, because they filled the cavity by expanding the collapsed lung and avoided the mutilation which was the necessary result of the older methods of operating. Ransohoff's method, published about a year ago, is only a modification of the Fowler-Delorme operation, and was developed because of the same idea that the pulmonary pleura was the cause of the non-expansion of the lung. All these operations are developed along lines of false