MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 372 involved until the very last stages of the disease. Some of our patients who have become entirely a dead-weight, are still able to use their fingers and move their toes. The abdomen is protruded, due to the large deposit of fat tissue, but the abdominal muscles are rarely affected. When they are involved, death is caused by difficult breathing. Electrical examination shows diminution of excitability to both currents, but no reaction of degeneration. Later on, when the musculature is completely wasted, no response to the faradic current is obtained. The calves, thighs and buttocks are, in contradistinction to the upper part of the body, thick, soft and flabby. This is due to the deposit of fat, which begins to take place in these muscles. Working on the basis of the relation of glucose to muscles, special inquiry as to the sugar metabolism was made in some of our patients. Notwithstanding the fact that large doses of glucose were given to patients in the terminal stages, no sugar was detected in the urine. Some observers (Bender et al.) have made further inquiry into the metabolism of these patients, but found no changes except a diminution of kreatinin. Distal Type.—Gowers has reported two cases in which the disease began distally, i.e., in the fingers and the toes. We have the history of one case, which will be cited later, in which the disease began distally. This, however, was an atypical case and was for a long time thought to be a progressive chronic poliomyelitis, but repeated examinations failed to show any reaction of degeneration and the group of muscles involved was characteristic of dystrophy. Subluxation of the shoulder joint is occasionally seen when the muscles around those joints are involved. The muscles of the neck are attacked late in the disease, and although the patient is no longer able to hold the head erect, he is still able to move it from side to side. Myotonia Atrophica.—One of the most interesting symptomatic associations of the dystrophies is myotonia. Ordinarily the mus- cular tonus is diminished in dystrophy, but there have been some cases reported by Pelz1 and by Hunt2, Curschmann, Gauff, 1. Archiv. f. Psychiatric, Vol. 42, p. 704. 2. Proccd. of the N. Y. Neurological Society, November, 1908. and others, in which myotonia resembling that of Thomsen's disease was present. Satisfactory interpretation of these cases has yet to be furnished.