453 HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. As to pain, there is no doubt but that it can best be relieved by baths and compresses. In the bath we use low temperatures, which, as we know, reduce sensibility. Indeed, the moment the burned part is brought into contact with the water in the bath or the compress, the pain ceases. To illustrate this, I quote the younger Hebra: " The burned, who had filled the house with their screams, become quiet within a few minutes after they have been placed in the water, and they say that they are comparatively well." One of his cases would not believe that his back, which he could not see, was burned as badly as his front, which lay open to his view. As to the temperature, we have a wide range. Dzondi wrote as early as 1816: " It is not necessary to use a thermometer to obtain a certain degree; it is always sufficient and rational to be guided by the feelings of the patient; but to employ water near or at zero would act rather disadvantagously. The cir- cumstances of the moment and the condition of the patient must guide us." Of course, as we have to act as quickly as possible, we should not lose time to obtain a certain temperature, but, as soon as practicable, we should secure the degree that is in every way as favorable as possible. Local baths may be cooler; full baths will very soon have to be warmed to 88°-93° F. and more, to prevent too pronounced loss of heat. This can be done, the more so as the effect in a full bath is cumulative and the bath is altogether sedative, and offers an ideal rest to the sufferer. Further, it must be appreciated that we need not irritate the skin by cleaning it or removing the clothes (a procedure ex- tremely painful; for this reason the patient is narcotized, which certainly does not act favorably in regard to general conditions); only the thermic factor is active, and by the primary layer, as I call it, even the slightest movement and irritation through the changing of compresses are avoided. By it we form, so to speak, an artificial epidermis. This mode of relieving pain is certainly superior to morphine, in so far as it is in accordance with the three other indications. Of course, there is no reason why the administration of morphine may not be combined with the water treatment. Another advantage is that this treatment is adapted also to the second indication in the treatment, that is, to combat the fatal results of extensive burns. Thus far there is no