396 GAS SEPSIS, EMPHYSEMA, OR PHLEGMONE. tubercle-like nodules, evidently marking the former seat of imperfectly resolved areas of bronchopneumonia. Upon the right side were numerous p'euritic adhesions, especially marked anteriorly near the right border of the sternum, but also quite numerous about the apices both anteriorly and posteriorly. The lesser fissure was practically obliterated by pleuritic adhesions. The right lung, like the left, was unusually emphysematous, giving off numerous gas bubbles from the cut surface. The blood exuding from the divided ends of the blood vessels was filled with gas bubbles. There was little or no evidence cf edema of the pulmonary tissue in either lung; in fact, they were, so to speak, nearly dry. The spleen was slightly enlarged,soft, very dark in color, and very emphysematous, and upon pressure crepitated almost like lung tissue. Gas bubbles escaped from the cut surface, and a very frothy, blood- tinged fluid escaped on compression. The bladder was distended and contained a frothy fluid. The wall was about two centimeters (0.78 of an inch) in thickness, due to a diffuse carcinomatous infiltration of the muscular coat. Within the bladder was a diffuse papillary growth, which is well shown in the accompanying cut (see Fig. 2). Microscopic examination of the growth proved its carcinomatous character: papillomatous within the cavity of the bladder, schirrous in the wall and underlying structures. The lumen and wall of the ureters contained innumerable gas bubbles, producing an ap- pearance similar to what is seen in cases of ascending hydronephrosis (Fig. 2). There was no fluid in the lumina of the ureters, however. The tissue of the right ureter also was considerably infiltrated with a schirrous-like material, which made the right tube much harder than the opposite one. The left ureter was quite soft and much more dis- tended than the right tube. A similar difference existed in the sub- stance of the two kidneys. While both were enlarged and contained an abundance of gas bubbles, the left was the larger of the two; the right kidney, on the other hand, was firm, somewhat hard, as if infil- trated with a dense substance and also distended with gas. The left kidney (see Fig. 2) was by far the larger of the two. Both organs were in a state of parenchymatous metamorphosis. The liver was free from adhesions and about normal in size. There was one small metastatic growth in the liver, almost white in color, contrasting strongly with that of the hepatic tissue, which was unusually dark, almost black. Upon microscopic examination this neoplasm was found to be carcinomatous. The cut surface gave off large quantities of gas bubbles. The gall-bladder was well filled with gall-stones and bile, and slightly adherent to the under surface of the liver and to the hepatic portion of the colon. The colon was apparently empty and practically collapsed. The ap- pendix was normal. The small intestine and stomach were both un- usually dark. in color, considerably distended with gas and contained throughout a frothy fluid. Free gas bubbles appeared to be present in the walls of the intestine. Although there were a few adhesions between the coils of the small intestine, the foramen of Winslow was patent, and