66 BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. was stitched up" with catgut and the whole mass was buried under the internal oblique muscle by the Bassini method. The hernia on the right side was of the ordinary oblique type. Recovery was prompt with no recurrence. Case IX.—Para-peritoneal (Card No. 1184), December 15, 1904. Italian, age 38 years. Medium build; double inguinal hernia; previous history unknown. Operation was performed at the Post-Graduate Hospital, Dr. Parker and staff assisting. On the left an incomplete oblique hernia was found, but on the right the hernia was of the direct type, with peritoneum bulging into the canal. When this was opened it was found that the lower and larger protrusion was bladder wall, extra-peritoneal. The peritoneum was closed by purse-string suture of catgut, and the bladder, after being freed from adhesions, was inverted, and buried beneath the internal oblique muscle by the Bassini method. Case X.—Extra-peritoneal and hernial sac (Card No. 1192), January 6, 1905. M. K., age 44. Man about five feet two inches high, weighing over 200 pounds, with right inguinal, umbilical and ventral hernia, all of several years' duration. Operation was performed at the Murray Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. On opening the canal a sac about three inches long was separated from the cord up to the internal ring. This left a swelling as large as half-hen's egg protruding inside of the cord low down in the canal. Upon exploration through the upper sac this was found to be the bladder extra-peritoneal. It was inverted and buried under the internal oblique muscles after ligating the true hernial sac. Ventral and umbilical hernia were operated upon at the same time. Primary union. Re- turned home on 14th day. No recurrence January, 1908. Case XI.—Extra-peritoneal and hernial sac (Card No. 1195), January 9, 1905. Rev. W. I. H., 47 years of age, and with strong tendency to adiposity. Double inguinal hernia of many years' duration; on the right side, painful and not retained by truss; on the left, of recent origin and easily controlled. Operation was performed at the- Post-Graduate Hospital, Dr. Finley and staff assisting. On opening the right side the canal was found full of loose fat and bulging peritoneum. Lower in the canal the bulging (hernial sac) merged right into a tumor the size of a small hen's egg, which connected with the abdomen