281 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. most extraordinary and interesting. A woman had gone through a Cesarean section for contracted pelvis. She again became pregnant, and giving evidence of internal hemorrhage, he per- formed laparotomy. The patient died. It was found that in the line of the uterine scar left from the previous section, a fistula, 4 cm. long, existed. This made a broad communication between the cavity of the uterus and the pelvis. It may be assumed with the author that through this fistula the impreg- nated ovum wandered into the abdomen and implanted itself there secondarily. Of this there was no conclusive proof. Or it may be assumed that the uterus had never been the place of nidation of the ovum, but that it settled primarily in the abdo- men, and was one of the instances of primary abdominal preg- nancy. In this case the Fallopian tube was not necessarily the passage for ovum or spermatozoon. b. Koeberle extirpated a fibroid uterus. It was evidently a supravaginal hysterectomy. There remained a fistula in ^the scarred cervix. Through this fistula the patient conceived again, and of necessity the pregnancy was now extrauterine. This ruptured and the patient-died. One may, therefore, conclude that, for impregnation, a uterus is by no means necessary. There is not one authentic instance on record where there was no ovary, and yet impregnation took place. Even a small part of an ovary, if capable of functionating, is sufficient. 3. Anatomical reason.—The Graafian follicle in the human ovary has, briefly speaking, the following structure. It consists of an external fibrovascular coat, connected with the surround- ing stroma of the ovary by a network of bloodvessels. It also exhibits an internal coat, named ovicapsule, which is lined by a layer of nucleated cells, named the membrana granulosa. The fluid contained in the follicle is transparent and albuminous. In that part of the Graafian follicle which is towards the surface of the ovary, the cells of the membrana granulosa are packed to- gether into a heap, and this heap is named the discus proligerus. In this discus proligerus the ovum lies imbedded. a. All intraperitoneal organs are covered by peritoneum. The surface of these organs is covered by flat epithelial cells. The ovary is the only exception. Its covering consists of columnar cells.