277 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. and assistant Professor Benj. Cline and Dr. T. Homer Coffin, cut longitudinally across. The two halves of the organ were separated, and it was seen that the parenchyma was densely infiltrated with blood. About 4 mm. from the cut edge, and extending well towards the centre of the organ, was a small cavity containing a few (perhaps five) drops of limpid fluid. Floating in this fluid was a tiny, white embryo which was at- tached to the inner surface of the cavity by a slightly twisted, transparent membrane. This membrane arose from the caudal extremity of the embryo and, before reaching the point of its attachment, it spread out mushroom-shape so as to obtain a broad base of insertion. It was fortunate that the knife missed the embryo and merely cut through the amniotic cavity. The specimen, therefore, justified the diagnosis previously made and represented a very early stage of an exceedingly rare condition, namely, true primary ovarian pregnancy. In this opinion the following gentlemen also concurred: Professor H. J. Boldt;. Professor George M. Edebohls; Professor Joseph B. Cooke; Pro- fessor Jeffries, Pathologist to the New York Polyclinic; Dr.. Edward L. Oatman, Pathologist to the Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital, and Dr. George E. McLaughlin, Pathologist to Christ Hospital, Jersey City. There were many others quite competent to judge who also were of the opinion that this was a case of true ovarian pregnancy, but I shall refrain from swelling the list. The embryo measured 6mm. in length and 2 mm. in thick- ness. On viewing it through a magnifying glass, a head, rudi- mentary eye, branchial clefts, curved back and pointed lower extremity, were seen. A rudimentary cord or membrane at- tached the embryo to the ovary and four buds marked the site of the two upper and two lower extremities. For microscopical study, coronal and sagittal sections were cut. from the specimen, each about 1 cm. thick, and these were dehydrated and imbedded in celloidin in the usual manner.. The microscopical sections were stained by the hematoxylin- eosin method, and mounted in Canada balsam. Upon examination the most striking feature was the intense infiltration of the tissues with blood. This was so decided in whole areas as to make the impression of blood clot. In almost every field chorionic villi, large and small, were to be seen, giving classical pictures of the two epithelial layers—the Langhans'