HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 460 borders of which a number of hooks and eyes had been at- tached, so that the covering could be easily changed by opening and closing the hooks on the back. If the location of the affected part allows of bathing, two or three partial baths during twenty-four hours may be given. If inflammatory pain is present, 85째 to 90째 will be the best; if no pain is present, but there is some inflammatory redness of the borders of the wound, the same temperature, or 100째 to 105째, is advisable, as in non-inflamed cases. To explain this, I quote the experiments of Schaeffer: He passed through the skin threads soaked in carbolic acid, sublimate of mercury or bacteria cultures and found that heat accelerated the blood stream, so that stagnation in the capillaries and accumulation of blood elements, as pathology teaches, were prevented and healing was quicker. Penzo found, in Bizzozero's laboratory, that after prolonged hot baths, the number of mitoses in the epithelial cells was largely increased. Both facts point to a highly improved physiological progress in the wound. I quote what I wrote in the N. Y. Med. Monatsshrift. " Heretofore, the surgeon has feared and hesitated to change the wet dressing, but he has been finally forced to do so by the accumulation of secretions." Even the frequent change,, if done under strict observation of the given rules derived from hydrotherapy, is a valuable factor, as it favors circulation in the wound and causes the physiological processes leading to recovery to progress as speedily as nature allows. What Watson-Cheyne says (to cite an author incidentally at hand), is not true: " Sores left by burns heal much more slowly than open wounds made by the knife, probably because the heat not only destroys the vitality of the part immediately acted upon, but also impairs that of the tissues around, so that, in the early stages, the vital processes in them are not nearly so active as usual." It is in our hands to positively change the condition altogether. To illustrate the result of the hydriatric management of burns, I refer for further details to the case (Fig. 1), which I presented to the German Medical Society and published in the N. Y. Med. Monatsschnft for October, 1902.