MENTAL DEFICIENCIES IN EARLY CHILDHOOD. 21$ of the fetal organism as to create grave central disturbances in the offspring. Notice should be taken also of the fact that certain types of mental ><iej;eneracy are peculiar to certain races of humanity—often without any discernible cause—as, for ex- ample, amaurotic family idiocy in the Hebrew race. The association of feeble-mindedness with any of the afore- mentioned predisposing factors cannot invariably be accepted as proving the hereditary pathogenesis of the case in question.. On the contrary, occasionally totally insane parents beget per- fectly sane children, and vice versa. Anticipation of an herde- itary predisposition, therefore, should not deter us from careful scrutiny of the patient's personal history, particularly as per- taining to traumatism sustained during birth (compression or fracture of the skull during tardy or instrumental delivery, etc.) or after, and the diseases the child suffered from up to the time of examination. No one morbid manifestation' in the past history of the patient, is as corroborative of the latter's abnormal mentality as the occurrence of repeated attacks of convulsions during its early development. Whatever the cause—be it meningitis, gastro- intestinal intoxication, uremia, exanthematous disease or trauma—the very fact that severe convulsions occurred justifies the assumption of some pathologic alteration in the central nervous system, sufficiently grave to predispose to mental im- pairment. Whenever possible, an attempt should always be made to trace the exact origin of the mental deficiency. Too' much stress, however, should not be placed upon the informa- tion received. For, at best, histories are only guesswork,, unless furnished by very intelligent sources—rather rarely to- be expected when dealing with degenerates. Having obtained all details as to the patient's family and personal histories, our next, most important, work should be to determine the apparent physical and mental conditions of the child, especially with the view of comparing them with those of a normally developed child of the same age. The head of the idiotic child presents several characteristic physical stigmata of degeneration. The cranium of a hydro- cephalic (see Fig. 1) is large, ball-shaped, and its circumfer- ence widest at the temples. It contrasts strongly with the small, delicate face. The fontanelles are separated, the eye-