FIBROID DEGENERATION OF THE APPENDIX. 43 nature of a so-called neurasthenia, and know that it is not often that any one disease or defect stands alone as a causative factor. A single disease or defect commonly enough stands alone as a precipitating factor, however, and it is in this role, as that of precipitating factor in neurasthenia, that the appendix undergoing fibroid degeneration plays an important part. Fibroid degeneration of the appendix is the cause for trouble in most of the cases in which the patient goes about from doctor to doctor, trying to obtain a definite diagnosis referable to the appendix, and the different opinions which he obtains are apt to leave him much confused. The most common diagnosis which the patient obtains is " chronic inflammation of the appendix," and the most common advice is perhaps to have the appendix removed, on the ground that acute infection of the appendix may appear at any time. Such a diagnosis is not comprehensive, because it does not include the real cause for the chronic irritation, and such advice is unwarranted, according to my belief at the present moment. Examination of appendices which are undergoing fibroid degeneration shows various degrees of replacement of the normal structures of the appendix by connective tissue, and there is apt to be a rather even replacement of appendix tissues, beginning at the distal end and involving lymphoid and submucous tissues primarily. The mucous coat disappears next, then the muscular coat and in some cases the peritoneal coat in part or as a whole. The larger blood vessels of the appendix are pinched out at an early date by the contracting connective tissue, but nerve filaments seem to resist pressure atrophy for a long time. Microscopically these nerve filaments are found to be surrounded by such an abundance of new cells that we have clear evidence of the irri- tation caused by such appendices. Instead of an even and symmetrical fibroid degeneration of the appendix, we sometimes have localized areas of degeneration representing nodes and internodes, and the internodes sometimes form sites for mu- cous inclusion. Many years are required for completion of the changes which occur with fibroid degeneration of the ap- pendix, and in the interval some patients will suffer enough to make it worth while to have the appendix removed, because of the influence of that organ upon the general health of the in- dividual, rather than because of danger from infection of the appendix.