CONGENITAL STENOSIS OF THE PULMONARY ARTERY. 481 A STUDY OF FIVE CASES. BY ROBERT ABRAHAMS, M.D. Adjunct Professor of Medicine, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. The study and observation of five cases of congenital stenosis of the pulmonary artery included in this report were carried on at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, in the Medical Clinic of Professor Charles F. Wainwright. They all came under notice within the last five years. Their points of interest are that three of the patients have reached adult life; one almost passed the period of childhood, and with the exception of the oldest, they all live and do well. Additional items of interest are: first, that in two, there is a family history of congenital malformation of the heart, be- speaking hereditary influence; second; in three, the mothers are rheumatic, suggesting intrauterine rheumatic infection, and, third, that four out of the five patients are males. The diag- nosis of pulmonary stenosis was made in each case with due care and reference to the history and physical signs. If other forms of malformation of the heart existed and which only an autopsy could reveal, the predominating signs, how- ever, were those of stenosis. The following were the deciding symptoms in favor of pul- monic obstruction in all the five cases: (1) aloud blowing systolic murmur having the point of maximum intensity over the pul- monic area: (2) a systolic thrill distinctly felt over the same location, and (3) hypertrophy of the right heart. That the lesions were congenital, was evidenced from the fact that cyanosis began in early infancy; the terminal phalanges of fingers and toes were club-shaped; dyspnea at rest and more so on exertion and, lastly, no evidence of a lesion in any organ of the body to explain these clinical phenomena. Case 1.—M. A., male, 25 years old; weight, 155; height, 5 ft. 6 in. Family history negative to tuberculosis, cancer or syphilis. Mother suffered several attacks of rheumatism involving the knees, wrists and ankles. One attack occurred during preg- nancy. An uncle on the paternal side died of hemophilia.