UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 187 will be found from time to time that there is considerable blood clot in the cavity, and this had better be washed out with hot saline poured from a pitcher as before. During separation of the adhesions, the patient is gradu- ally recovering from the effect of the anesthetic, and it will soon be discovered that as the finger sweeps the pulmonary pleura the patient will develop a hacking pleuritic cough. With each cough the collapsed lung expands until it not only fully occupies the cavity but often will be pushed through the opening and portions of it can be drawn outside. This is readily explained. The irritation of the pleura causes a sudden expulsion of air from the healthy lung through a partially closed glottis. The obstruction is, therefore, at the upper end of the breathing apparatus; more air is being driven through the trachea than can escape through the superior opening, and the surplus must flow over into the open bronchus of the col- lapsed lung. In other words, we compel the patient to use the healthy lung as a pump to blow up the collapsed one. Following the publication of my description of this opera- tion in the Annals of Surgery last year, I received the follow- ing letter from Mr. Bilton Pollard, Surgeon to the University College Hospital, in London. 2Sl Harley Street, West, London, England, April 6, 1907. Dear Sir: I have just received the March number of the Annals of Surgery, and have read with much interest your paper on the treatment of empyema. I feel sure that you will be interested also in the enclosed papers from which you will see that I have been guided by the same principles as yourself in the treatment of empyema. It is now twenty-one years since I began working (at the Northeastern Children's Hospital, Lon- don) on the lines laid down in the paper. I have, since I wrote in 19m, gone further in the matter of breaking down the adhesions than is urged in the paper, but I must freely admit that I have never pushed my views in the matter of adhesions to their full logical extent, as you have done. There is no doubt that the right time to mobilize the lung is at the original operation for empyema, and I trust that the congratulations of a colleague who has worked on similar lines will be acceptable to you. Faithfully yours, Bilton Pollard. Mr. Pollard's article appeared in the Clinical Journal, Lon- don, February 27, 1901, page 293. I cannot help quoting