312 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. Abdominal hysterectomy [152, 158, 160] Vaginal hysterectomy [153, 161] 3 cases 2 cases Total 5 cases I may, perhaps, be criticized adversely for including the case of Schwartze-Halle, reported by Chrysopath.es [161]. In this case occlusion of the tubes, with resulting double hemato- salpinx, was due to two uterine adeno-myomatous tumors which, in their development, had caused an occlusion of the uterine ends of both tubes. This case is unique in medical literature, and is an irrefutable instance of blood being directly exuded from the tubal mucosa, instead of being due to a re- gurgitation from the uterine cavity. The operations in the double utero-genital canal with unilateral blood accumulations are summed up by Kleinhaus (1897) as follows: 1. Simple evacuation of the hematometra through the vagina. 2. Evacuation through the vagina with preceding or sub- sequent celiotomy, and removal of hematosalpinx (and ovary). 3. Celiotomy. Incision of hematometra and resection or ex- section of its wall with suture (Werth). 4. Removal of tubal sac with a portion of the distended half of the uterus and suture of the sac to the abdominal wall. 5. Removal of appendages from both sides. 6. Supra-vaginal amputation of the uterus. 7. (We can add: total hysterectomy.) Fritsch, Kerzmarsky and Kehrer sewed the blood-sacs into the abdominal wound in order to prevent the future escape of blood into the peritoneal cavity. It is interesting to note that in the 90 cases of blood retention in the double genital canal, collected by Gross, there were four cases of lateral hematocolpos. Such cases are, of course, accessible to a simple vaginal incision. In the vast majority of the re- ported cases, however, the blood-sac consisted usually of the blood-filled half of a double uterus with or without hemato- salpinx. E. Simon, in 1888, reported 22 cases complicated with hematosalpinx of which 14 died and eight recovered: After vaginal incision, 5 recoveries, 11 deaths. " rectal puncture, 1 " 1 " " laparotomy, 1 " 0 " Without treatment, 1 2