HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. 13 Again, at times for months, these patients will feel giddy or uncertain when going down stairs. They feel as if they might pitch forward and fall. These sensations also are due to the toxemia and its effect on the cerebral circulation. They may also feel at times, when walking, as if the side-walk were sud- denly coming up to meet them; this being a subjective symptom, pure and simple, and not an objective manifestation. At times, however, it is really difficult, unless a most thorough examination is given these patients, to decide whether they may not be suffering from a far more serious lesion of the ner- vous system, or from a labyrinthian trouble. In a few of our cases, combined nervous and circulatory symptoms have been very severe; such as severe vertigo, followed by temporary loss of consciousness, and, in two instances, a mild, epileptiform seizure. This condition was but temporary, the patients coming immediately from the attack and having no further difficulty. These patients were exhaustively examined as to their condi- tion, and it was only a knowledge of their previous history, and the notes from the specialists to .whom these patients were sent for additional examination, that led us to view them as severe examples of chronic hepato-intestinal-toxemia. Insomnia and bad dreams, especially the sensation of sudden falling, just as one goes to sleep, are quite common symptoms in these cases. It may here be well to state that, although we have these symptoms as a manifestation of a neurasthenic con- dition, and that in the instances where these symptoms were particularly manifest, the patients were, as a rule, neurasthenics, yet it could also not be denied' that, when such symptoms oc- curred, there was every evidence of an increase in the toxemia. Gastro-intestinal Symptoms.—So far as the stomach itself is concerned, in the vast majority of cases we find here no diffi- culty that can be made out, either by subjective or objective examination, with the exception of the loss of appetite which occurs during the exacerbations, or which may exist in the chronic type of the disease. Neither the physical nor the functional signs reveal anything abnormal. At times, to be sure, hyperchlorhydria may exist, and again, there may be hypochlorhydria. Occasionally there are evidences of gas- tritis, but we have never, for an instant, been led to believe that these cases were caused by any difficulty, primarily, in the stomach.