224 SURGERY OF ACUTE PANCREATITIS. be made. The most that one could say was, that there was an acute process in the upper abdomen urgently requiring surgical interference. While the symptoms tallied with those of acute pancreatitis, they corresponded equally well to perforation of the gall-bladder, stomach or duodenum, or to rupture of an ap- pendix situated well up under the liver. Case III.—M. L., male; age 18 years; admitted Sept. 24, 1907. No alcoholic or venereal history. He had typhoid and measles in childhood. Had a number of injuries. He fell from a tree four years ago, hurting his spine; recovered after eight weeks' stay at a hospital. Also broke a clavicle. Bowels generally regular. Onset of present illness twenty- four days ago while in Kingston, Jamaica. He complained of constipa- tion and of pain in the left part of his abdomen, where there was also tenderness; the pain was increased by motion. From the time he left Jamaica until he reached Colon, he had no movement of the bowels for five days. During that time he had general abdominal pain which was later localized in the left upper part of the abdomen. His pain became worse after eating solid or semi-solid food. At Colon he was in a hospital for eight days. ' While his pain was great throughout, it was much aggra- vated when his bowels moved after taking medicine. Since leaving Colon he has had pain only in the upper left part of the abdomen. His constipation required much medicine. There has been no blood in the stools. He had chills and fever in the morning of the day of his ad- mission and had also had them several times before. On examination it was evident that he was in pain. He belched gas. Tongue heavily furred. Heart and lungs normal. Abdomen tense; markedly rigid and tender over the left side. Marked pain also in the left lumbar region and that of the left lower ribs. Percussion of the left upper part of the abdomen dull. The patient prefers a quiet posture. Temperature 102.8° F., soon rising to 103.2° F.; pulse, 96, of good volume. Blood examination: Leucocytes, 25,800; polynuclear cells, 81 J%; no Plasmodia. Examination of stomach contents after test-meal revealed presence of five cu. cm. of undigested food, consisting of starch and fat, also some mucus; otherwise negative. Feces, examined on Sept. 26, con- tained no blood, few leucocytes, some mucus, some starch, a little fat, some vegetable fibres, and bacteria. On that day the temperature had gone down to normal, but the pain persisted; so an examination under narcosis was made. The examination showed the presence of a tumor mass in the left upper part of the abdomen. Inflation of the colon proved the colon tympany to merge into the tumor as palpated; but it was dull at that point. Its course was not deflected medially by the tumor. The tumor itself did not move on respiration, and was almost immovable. The diagnosis of a retro-peritoneal tumor was made, and, as the examina- tion of the urine was negative, it was believed probable that it represented the tail of the pancreas. A blood examination, on Sept. 27, showed a practically normal condition. On Sept. 28, an operation was performed. Although the tumor was recognized as retro-peritoneal, an abdominal in-