SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. 37 more binding legal commitment upon the petition of a rela- tive or friend, regardless of the wishes of the patient. In the former case, the patient signs an application for care and treat- ment in a licensed sanitarium. Should the patient subsequently desire to leave before he is in a suitable condition, he must give three days notice to the physician in charge of the institution. During these three days a relative or friend can make applica- tion to have the patient legally committed, against the latter's will, if necessary. The nearest District Court receives the petition, and the judge appoints two examining physicians who examine the patient, and if they advise his further retention, a day is set for the hearing of the case when the patient is brought to court (or his presence may be waived at the discretion of the judge), and if the judge deems it for the best interest of the patient, he grants the petition committing the patient for one year, which can be renewed for another year if necessary. Such a proceeding can be instituted at once by a friend, or relative, without going through the formality of a voluntary commit- ment by the patient, and this latter is the usual procedure, as few patients are willing to give up the habit of their own free will and accord. Such a patient may be discharged before the completion of the year if fully recovered or the petitioner desires the removal to some other place. This gives the phy- sician-in-charge of such an institution full legal authority to use the necessary legal restraint, to control and prevent the ob- taining of alcoholic liquors from without, and direct the habits of the patient; see that he observes regular hours, has suitable diet, proper rest, exercise, recreation, occupation and sleep, together with hydrotherapeutic, electrical or medicinal treat- ment, according to the requirements of the individual case. Under such treatment as carried out at the present time, from 30 to 50% of inebriates are cured. A still greater percentage of the earlier cases would be absolutely cured and upon their discharge become useful citizens for the remaining years of their life, could we but have an inebriate colony established along similar lines (but especially adapted for inebriates) as that now so successfully carried out for epileptics for the past 46 years at Bielefeld, Germany, where over 2000 cases of epilepsy are under constant supervision; and in the State of New York at Sonyea, Livingston Co., and known as the Craig Colony for Epileptics,