HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. 456 taken with or without a doctor's prescription: alcohol, ether, turpentine, and carron oil, which even a surgeon has termed filthy. They all have the disadvantage of bringing into con- tact with delicate, unprotected cells, chemicals which are caustic, or decompose the protoplasm, and, in short, reduce the vitality of the epethelium. In what follows we shall show that our procedure is strictly in accordance with the laws of physiology, pathology and bacteriology. In addition to what has been already mentioned, we may state, further, that contact with the cool water of the bath or compress quickly restore the lost tone of vessel walls. Thus, waves of normal blood are forced through the afflicted area and provide materials of reconstruction. We know from pathology that the alterated wall of vessels is quickly re- stored by normal blood, and the experiments of Winternitz and others show, that the rational application of cold is followed by a decided increase of the red and white blood corpuscles and of hemoglobin. In this way, for instance, under a compress, the vitality of a burn is augmented, and thus it can be understood that blisters up to half an inch in diameter are absorbed during a proper bath or com- press within one hour or so, and the appearance of new blisters is positively impossible. The primary layer, as I named it, does not interfere with this result, which is brought about exclusively by thermic factors, acting through the thin covering. This also does not cause retention of inflammatory products, as these are not yet developed and are constantly absorbed by the changed compress. If, later on, the wound should smart, it is advisable to place on it one layer of absorbent gauze for a longer time, and to perform all manipulations over this. Ex- perience shows that pain, when the compresses are changed or an occasional irrigation is given, may successfully be avoided without disturbing the effect. For further reasoning, I shall quote what I wrote in the New Yorker Medicinische Monatsschrift, October, 1902: " In regard to the principles of the treatment of wounds, it is generally recognized that that procedure is the best which, firstly, prevents infection, secondly, most thoroughly removes secretion; thirdly, reduces irritation as far as possible, for the