214 MENTAL DEFICIENCIES IN EARLY CHILDHOOD. brows are scarcely indicated, and the mouth and nose are small. In microcephalus (see Fig. 2) the head is small, narrow anteri- orly and devoid of posterior projection. It greatly resembles that of an animal. The fontanelles are prematurely ossified. The eyes are small, the ears project, and the nose and the lower jaw are large. In the syphilitic (see Fig. 3) the head is unevenly enlarged. The skull is irregularly bossed and trav- ersed by prominent blue veins. The nose is small and often saddle-shaped. The eyes are large and bulging. The lips are usually thick and the angles of the mouth not rarely marked by rhagades. The cranium of the Mongolian (see Fig. 4) idiot is somewhat smaller than normal, rounded, with the occiput running quite parallel with the plane of the face. The face is sunken, the nose short and broad and bound laterally towards the eyes by distinct vertical folds. The cheek bones are prom- inent, and the tongue protrudes. No characteristic physical signs of degeneration are apparent on the cranium of the amau- rotic idiot (see Fig. 5), except that owing to the general atony of the musculature, the patient is unable to hold up his head. The face is delicate. The skull of the cretin (see Fig. 6) is rather larger than normal, sparsely covered by thin, lustreless hair, and set upon a thick, short neck. The face is weak and senile, the eyelids and lips are thick, the tongue is heavy and often protrudes from the half closed mouth. Meningitic, en- cephalitic, or paralytic idiocy (see Fig. 7) usually presents no characteristic cranial physical signs, except when due to severe traumatism at birth or after. In some, congenital cases there is marked flattening of the temporal bone of one side corre- sponding with the lesion in the brain (porencephaly, etc.). In infantilism (see Fig. 8) the skull is smaller than normal, and the face is either plump and senile (typus Brissaud), or thin, delicate and infantile (typus Lorain). The teeth of the great majority of idiotic children are irregu- larly implanted, faulty in form, and excessive or deficient in number. Owing to irregularity of the dental arches and size of the teeth, the patient is frequently unable to close his mouth —which should not be mistaken for the open mouth associated with nasal obstruction—and the constantly dribbling saliva not rarely leads to painful excoriation of the chin. The lips are often congenitally malformed. The palate is high and narrow /