96 RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. tenderness over the entire abdomen, more marked to the right and below the navel. The fetal parts could be readily palpated, and the presenting part could not be felt through the cervix. The abdomen was opened along the line of the previous scar; a large amount of dark clots was found and the intact fetal sac was lying free in the abdominal cavity, the con- tracted uterus lying behind and below. The full term fetus was dead. The uterus showed a transverse rupture through the cicatrix of the pre- vious section. The uterus was removed and the patient recovered The interesting point was that there was slight alteration of pulse tension and rate and no collapse, although complete rupture had occurred. Case XI. reported by Ribemont-Dessaignes and Rudaux.18 The pa- tient, age 29, had had a difficult labor in 1899, which was terminated by Cesarean section. The woman's condition was so serious that the uterus was not sutured. The peritoneum was sutured with catgut, and the patient recovered. In January, 1904, the woman went into labor again at term. After labor had been in progress for some hours, the patient suffered from very severe pain, and the pulse was accelerated. The fetal parts could now be easily palpated, and the diagnosis of rupture of the uterus was made. Laparotomy was performed several hours later. The uterus was found to be ruptured in the scar of the former section, and a living child was extracted through the rent. The Porro opera- tion was performed, and the patient recovered. Case XII, reported by Prusmann-Henkel.19 Age 40; Ill-para; seen Jan. 21, 1905. First Caesarean in 1894, a second in 1902. Admitted to the clinic shortly before term with symptoms of complete rupture of the uterus. Laparotomy was performed, and the fetus, membranes and placenta were found outside of the uterus, which was moderately con- tracted. The rupture was found in the old scar, which was sagittal over the fundus and anterior wall. The edges of the rupture were freshened and ten muscular sutures were placed. This case was also compli- cated with a history of hernia of the abdominal scar, which had been operated on in 1904. The scar of this wound was excised for a finger's breadth. Recovery was smooth. Commenting on this case, Olshausen states that he has seen but one such rupture in at least 120 Caesarean sections. Case. XIII, reported by Schink.20 Age 28 years. First seen, July 8, 1902. On Feb. 16, 1899, the patient had undergone Caesarean section for contracted pelvis. The fundal incision was closed by sutures in two planes: (1) a deep suture embracing the peritoneum and musculature; (2) superficial, peritoneum only. The woman became pregnant one year later. At term labor set in, but the child, found to be lifeless, was perforated and extracted. One year later another (the present) preg- nancy for which she was admitted at term at the clinic. Strong pains were followed by collapse, necessitating removal to the hospital. There were marked anemia, cyanosis, chills, pulse small, 156—160. Rup- ture of the uterus was evident on palpation. Laparotomy, July 8, 1902. Incision in the region of the original abdominal scar. The ovum was found intact in the abdominal cavity, and, together with a large amount