GAS SEPSIS, EMPHYSEMA, OR PHLEGMONE. 399 Welch1 in his Shattuck Lecture before the Massachusetts State Medical Society, in 1900, argues that "it is not possible to explain some of the cases in which bacilli and gas have been found in the heart, blood-vessels and organs very soon after death, especially when the corpse has been kept in a cool place, otherwise than upon the assumption of the distribution of the bacteria by the circulating blood." In like manner in these cases, assuming that they were produced by this form of bac- terial infection, it is difficult to account for the conditions found except through infection of this character and a distribution of the bacilli by the circulating blood just before death. The commencement of the emphysema in the areolar planes of the neck, which w,as noticed in both cases just before death, sus- tains this contention. In the latter instance the presence of the gas bacillus of Welch was not demonstrated to be present, as should have been done to establish the diagnosis beyond a question of doubt; nevertheless, these two cases are so pro- nounced that they seem to be worthy of record, and probably both had this bacillus for their cause; hence the diagnosis. The fact that a pronounced neoplasm was located in the bladder, which probably had an eroded surface before death, and the emphysema so pronounced in connection with the ure- ters and kidneys, renders it highly probable that infection took place along the line of the genito-urinary tract, possibly as the result of catheterization. It is possible also that the portal of entry in this second case was through the intestinal wall and not through the genito-urinary tract. In this connection it is well to note that AVelch1 states that the urinary tract is one of the portals of entry for the gas bacillus, but that up to 1900, the bacillus had not been demonstrated at this point during life, although frequently found here after death. In the first case, the rapid disintegration of the renal struc- tures indicates that, even if the portal of entry was not by the genito-urinary tract, the greatest amount of damage was found in the kidneys, as evidenced by the extensive gangrene of these organs. The very dark color of the stomach, small intestine, spleen and liver in the second case, indicates that these organs were about to become gangrenous, and that the greatest damage had occurred in these structures. While both 1. Med. Com. of the Mass. Med. Soc, vol. xviii, Xo. II. 1900.