ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. 427 upon the external surface, or from the partial action of both forces. During inspiration the negative pressure created in the pleural cavities varies between 6 and 30 mm. of mercury. During con- traction the diaphragm exerts upon the contents of the abdomen an equal amount of pressure, and probably more, since it also raises the costal arch. The abdominal contents act as the fulcrum upon which the diaphragm presses. To render this fulcrum effectual, it is necessary that the abdominal wall retain its tone and the level of fulcrum be not lowered. In the peritoneal cavity, the intestines and solid viscera are in contact and may move freely upon each other. The various ligaments, which serve to limit the extent of the motion of the viscera, are composed of folds of peritoneum containing the blood vessels, nerves and fibrous tissue. The intestines, whether distended or empty, being below and very mobile, resemble fluid in their supporting power. For purposes of study we may liken the abdominal cavity to an inverted truncated cone with elastic walls, closed at both ends with elastic membranes held in place by two bony rings; the upper—diaphragm and bony ring (costal arch)—has greater mobility than the lower (pelvis and perineum). With this formation in mind, it will be easily understood how pressure exerted on either the end or sides must be transmitted to all the retaining walls, and increases the intra-abdominal pressure. It follows, also, since the cavity is closed, that relaxation or expansion of these elastic walls will create lowered internal pressure or suction. The intestines retained in the elastic walls are free to move in all directions to the full extent of the mesentery, and only when the walls relax sufficiently to permit sinking of their floating level, do they pull upon the mesentery for support. For illustration, they may be likened to a boat tied with a painter to the dock at high tide; there is an infrequent short tug upon the cord only when the boat drifts from, side to side. As the water level lowers, the tug is more frequent, gradually becomes continuous and finally is an ever-increasing strain upon the restraining cord. Just so the mesentery and ligaments of the viscera receive an increasing strain as the intra-abdominal tension, or floating level, diminishes. The kidneys, though outside of the cavity, are inside the retaining wall and are subject to the same forces. This can easily be