4 COMPLICATED MASTOIDITIS. On the ninth day following the operation, the patient com- plained of feeling cold, and within a few hours exhibited a rise of temperature to 104.8° F. Believing we had a sinus phlebitis to deal with, I asked permission to explore this blood channel, but was requested by the family to wait. During the next four days there were no rapid excursions of temperature, the varia- tions not exceeding two degrees. There were, however, several evidences of a chill, some vomiting every day, and the patient began to look septic. The wound upon dressing at this time showed but little repair, and where before the dressings had been saturated, they were now almost dry. That portion of the sinus divested of its bony covering did not exhibit its usual lustre, was somewhat grayish in color, and looked natter than the average sinus when exposed. The blood examination at this time showed, upon differential count, a polynuclear per- centage of 90.8, with white cells numbering 7,600. The follow- ing day the patient's condition was about the same as the four previous days, except that he complained of pain in the neck of the affected side. Physical examination here disclosed ten- derness along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and some enlarged glands could be felt. Again operation was advised and this time consented to. Second Operation.—Chloroform was administered and the sinus exposed one and three-quarter inches posterior to the knee above, and down to the bulb below. It was covered throughout its entire exposure with a grayish exudate, except the last half inch .exposed. A free incision was made with a scalpel in its anterior wall at about the centre of exposure, and a few drops of pus exuded. There was no bleeding. The operative field was covered with gauze and the neck prepared for the removal of the vein. The internal jugular was exposed, ligated and resected from the clavicle below, to its exit from the skull above, as well as a portion of its tributaries, which were found involved. The lower two inches of the vein contained fluid blood, while all above this was filled with clot. The walls of the vein below at the clavicle were not thickened, macro- scopically speaking, but above, just external to the foramen, the walls were found very much thickened. Several enlarged glands were encountered during the course of the dissection, and removed. The neck wound was then protected with moist