441 EXCESSIVE GASTRIC SECRETION. to establish, with the newly discovered physiological laws, new explanations (Rubow, Bickel) of diseases of the human stomach. We are approaching a radical evolution of our conception of digestive problems. Many points will have to be corrected and quite a number will have to be modified. There is a gradual transition from complete absence to con- tinuous secretion of copious, highly peptic gastric juice. Nature does not draw any decided demarcation between the different forms of secretory anomalies, and it is impossible to reach a thorough understanding of them without taking them all into consideration. This is unquestionable for clinical research. For practical purposes, however, the classification into diminished, and excessive secretion, and their consideration as separate diseases is of great value. In the following, the ques- tion of excessive gastric secretion is considered, ignoring all the different aspects of the problem except the point, whether there is sufficient reason to retain the present division into hyper- secretion and hyperchlorhydria, as separate diseases. This problem can be attacked from two sides: (1) experimentally; (2) clinically upon the experimental facts. The following re- marks deal with the experimental side of the question. The really pure gastric juice is the product of the oxyntic and principal cells. This juice is a clear fluid and contains 0,4—0,55% HC1 (which is equal to 100-150 cc. 1/10 normal hydro- chloric solution) and varying amounts of pepsin and rennin. It is very difficult to obtain the pure juice of the stomach glands, because there is always more or^less gastric mucus upon the sur- face of the gastric mucosa, besides the swallowed saliva and mucus of the mouth and throat, which we will not consider. This mucus is alkaline; it binds partially the hydrochloric acid and influences in this way the acidity of the juice. The more gastric mucus is mixed with the specific gastric secretion, the more is this alkalinized. The less mucus is poured into the stomach, the less the gastric juice is diluted and the nearer it is to the normal acidity. We, therefore, have to make a distinction between the physiologic conception of the gastric juice, i.e., the pure secretion of the specific gastric glands without the gastric mucus, and the clinical conception, i.e., the juice with the gastric mucus. In speaking of the acidity of the gastric juice after a test-breakfast, we have in mind its clinical conception.