RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. 91 catgut is taken in the peritoneal coat, in order to close in all raw- surfaces, and to prevent contamination from the uterine cavity. All blood and clots are then removed from the peritoneal cav- ity, which is then filled with hot normal salt solution, after which the abdominal incision is closed, layer by layer, in the usual manner. Wallace3, in his complete monograph, stated that (1) complete utero-parietal adhesions render repetition of Caesarean section simple and easy; (2) that all sections should be performed with a view to ultimate pregnancy; (3) that this can be done by the adoption of means to ensure complete utero-parietal adhesions. On the other hand, the presence of any marked form of adhesions other than complete utero-parietal, tends to render repeated section more formidable. He said also that to Michaelis (who, in 1836, performed the operation for the fourth time on the same patient the last three operations being extraperitoneal), Sinclair and Spencer belong the credit of recognizing the truth of the principles just enunciated. Speaking of adhesions, Sinclair2, in his recent article on repeated section says: " Accumulating experience points to the conclusion that the patient is safest when, during a second or subsequent operation, the adhesions are most carefully preserved from interference." He then reports a case on whom four sections have been made. After the first section the uterus became adherent to the abdominal wall, as after a ventrofixation. The second and third sections were practically extraperitoneal (the opening into the peritoneum being exceedingly small), and the fourth section was extraperi- toneal. Sinclair has had no opportunity during the last five years, of operating a second time in any case where ventrofixa- tion had been intentionally performed at the time of the first section; but he thinks that the evidence from numerous reported cases points to the conclusion that if adhesions occur, and are respected, the danger is greatly diminished. He has seen no reference to a fatal result in such a case. His method of opera- ting is as follows: After the usual section, the uterine wound is closed with silk. Fine silk sutures, one on each side, are intro- duced low down in the vesicouterine fold, well beyond the blad- der laterally so as to close the fold and prevent intrusion of the intestines at some future time. He then passes a fine silk suture through the par.'etal peritoneum opposite the lower end of the