SUPPURATIVE LESIONS OF THE PHARYNX. 386 the individual is chiefly to blame for attacks of quinsy, and if one is willing to accept the modern theory that rheumatism is due to unhealthy tonsil conditions which furnish the avenue, if nothing more, by which rheumatism reaches the body, the rela- tion of quinsy to rheumatism seems settled. That some cases of quinsy can be aborted if taken in hand early—a fact for which the writer will vouch from personal experience—and by reme- dies ordinarily regarded as antirheumatic, is the strongest argu- ment that can be advanced to support the idea. Aside from this it is to be remembered that, in the temperate zone, rheu- matism is a very common trouble, and comparatively few patients fail to give a history suggestive of rheumatic affection of some sort. Personal observation convinces me that in a considerable percentage of cases of quinsy the throat condition is the only manifestation that could be called rheumatic, even with this theory in mind. Much more can be done for those subject to attacks of quinsy by bearing in mind the importance of the local causative factors and ignoring, or dwelling but lightly upon, what is but a theoretical explanation. The practitioner who keeps the "rheumatic" idea too much to the fore in approaching these cases, is most likely to have the unhappy patients already spoken of. Unhealthy tonsil conditions can confidently be considered the chief cause of all cases of quinsy, and in most of them the connection is easily demon- strated. Abscess formation in quinsy cases may occur at any point surrounding the tonsil. The seat of election is the anterior part and in the soft palate, arching upward from this; these pus collections geneially " point " somewhere between the base of the uvula and the center of the anterior faucial pillar. The cellular tissues below and behind the tonsil, however, are fre- quently the places where the pus collects, the posterior pillar of the fauces instead of the anterior showing the bulging. The chief seat of invasion may be above the tonsil and to its outer side, in which event the angular recess known as the " supratonsillar fossa " often gives egress to the pus. In all these cases the tonsil is pushed from its proper relation to other parts of the throat. It moves inward, forward, upward or downward, as the case may be, in obedience to the pressure from the swollen areolar tissue in which it rests; an edema of