PERITONITIS. 136 those in which none of the virulent symptoms are present, and in which the uterus does not seem to be a source of infection, I have practiced extensive vaginal section, with packing of the pelvic cavity with iodoform gauze. The results have varied, but have been mostly fatal. My experience with abdominal operations in such cases has been too limited to warrant me in expressing an opinion. The wide opening of the cul-de-sac of Douglas, and loose packing of the true pelvis with iodoform gauze, as was originally advocated by Wm. M. Polk in the beginning of puerperal pelvic infection, is a most valuable prophylactic to diffuse peritonitis and serious inflammatory changes of the generative organs. Patients with non-infectious peritonitis, as from the twisting of the pedicle of an ovarian tumor, of a pedunculated fibroid, or the rupture of an ovarian cyst, do not have the premonitory chill. Pain is the most prominent symptom in such cases. There may be some tympanitis, but it is rarely very marked. Thoracic respiration, if present at all, is not so marked as in puerperal peritonitis. The temperature is somewhat elevated and the pulse accelerated, but neither is much in excess of the normal. In these cases the pulse is never dicrotic, unless some complica- tion sets in. Its quality usually remains good. In most in- stances non-infectious peritonitis remains localized. The severe systemic disturbances present in puerperal peritonitis are absent. The treatment of non-infectious peritonitis is very simple. The cause must be removed. Such peritonitis rarely becomes diffuse. If it is due to a twisted pedicle of an ovarian tumor, or to any other recognizable cause, the abdomen should be opened and the tumor removed. In these cases neither drainage nor the semi-sitting position in bed is required. Gonorrheal peritonitis may become diffuse, especially when developed during the puerperium. It does not differ in its symp- toms from other forms of acute diffuse peritonitis, when the dis- ease is at its height. It does differ, however, in the prognosis. Gonorrheal peritonitis is not as a rule a fatal disease; in fact, if it occurs outside the puerperal period, the prognosis is always good so far as life is concerned, if no serious complications de- velop, and if one does not resort to a surgical intervention, but treats it symptomatically on the expectant or conservative plan. Even if the disease is developed during the puerperium, the