SUPPURATIVE LESIONS OF THE PHARYNX. 387 the palate and especially of the uvula commonly occurs, and hasty inspection may easily lead to a diagnosis of inflammation in the tonsil itself; this is all the more likely because of the difficulty the sufferer has in opening the mouth to permit thorough exam- ination. For these reasons the stab puncture, often relied upon as a relief measure, is frequently of no avail. This also explains why some attacks are so much more distressing than others. Most cases of quinsy are confined to one side, but bilateral cases are not rare. They are usually more severe in this event. As an abortive agent, at an early stage, no other drug has been so effective in the writer's hands as guaiacum. The am- moniated tincture may be given in from one to two dram doses, according to the age of the patient, in a glass of milk, or, if pre- ferred, in an emulsion with egg-albumen or mucilage. The dose should be repeated every two hours until the pain disappears, unless gastro-intestinal irritation contraindicates its continued exhibition. Salicylate of soda is favored for the same purpose, and with this may be combined the local application of the bi- carbonate, the powder being smeared at frequent intervals over the affected parts by the patient, with moistened finger-tip. General measures for the comfort of the patient, good nursing, liquid diet, etc., are necessary. If, as commonly happens, the case is seen too late for such treatment, careful examination should be made to locate the pus collection, and when this is determined it is the duty of the medical attendant to make a free opening for drainage. An ordinary straight or curved bistoury may be used for the purpose. A shank to prevent the knife penetrating too deeply is easily provided by wrapping a few layers of adhesive plaster around the blade, about three-fourths of an inch from the point. In the type of case usually met with, which is illustrated in the accompanying drawing, the incision should begin about half an inch from the margin of the anterior faucial pillar, and a little above a point in line with the lower molar teeth. The cut should extend upward and inward in a curved direction, parallel with the edge of the pillar, ending at a point half an inch behind the base of the uvula. The direction and extent of this incision may be seen in the drawing. If this incision is properly made, it will always release the pus. Contrary to general belief, hemorrhage is comparatively slight.