BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. 69 and as close as considered safe to the junction of the bladder and peritoneum. The stump was then turned towards median line, after freeing the bladder wall from adhesions, and fastened under the internal oblique muscle; the canal was closed by the Bassini method. Recovery prompt, with no recurrence. Case XVI—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 1309), February 5, 1906. M. P. B., age 41; six feet tall, weight 195 pounds (re- ferred by Dr. J. Hoffman, Jersey City). Right inguinal hernia, •eight years' duration; truss worn; retained hernia, but painful. Operation was performed at Murray Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. The canal was filled by fat which covered the sac very thickly at its lower part. The sac was opened near the internal ring and the bladder, uncovered with peritoneum, found dragged over the pubic bone. The sac opened was closed by catgut, the bladder freed and pushed well to the median line, and the canal closed by the Bassini method. Patient left on 14th day perfectly healed. There was no recurrence. Case XVII.—Extra-peritoneal both sides (Card No. 1340) April 17, 1906. C. R., age 25 years; medium size and rather thin. Double inguinal hernia, for several years, size of hen's egg on either side. Trusses worn, but always with discomfort. Operation was performed at the Post-Graduate Hospital, Dr. Runyon and staff assisting. On opening the right side the hernial sac, found in the canal, was continuous with a larger tumor at its lower part. The upper sac was opened and the lower mass diagnosticated as an extra-peritoneal bladder hernia. The upper sac opening was closed, the bladder was freed of adhesions and carried towards median line, and the canal closed by the Bassini method. An exactly similar condition existed on the left side and was treated in the same way. Both closures were difficult, but apparently effective. The patient left the hospital on the 14th day perfectly healed. There was no recurrence to January, 1908. Case XVIII.—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 1353), May 19, 1906. S. H., age 53 (referred by Dr. Honeyford, Hudson, N. Y.). Right inguinal hernia, five years; size English walnut; elastic truss worn but hernia not retained. Operation was performed at the Post-Graduate Hospital, Dr. Smith and staff assisting. Some fat and a sac bulging in the upper part of canal was found with a tumor low down on the inside of the cord. The upper sac was opened and the lower protrusion found