FRESH AIR WORK FOR SURGICAL TUBERCULOSIS. 349 of the conditions. The number of persons in the family, their health, their earnings, the rental and other expenses, the num- ber and condition of the rooms, the ventilation and lighting and the habits and efficiency of the parents are ascertained and noted. The patient is usually found sleeping in the same bed with others in a dark, unventilated inside room. The premises are often dirty and the food improper or insufficient. There is hygienic and probably economic distress due to incompetence, shiftlessness, intemperance, ill health or bad management. The cause of the maladjustment must be diagnosticated and so far as possible re- moved. The first step is to explain the patient's needs to the par- ents and enlist their cooperation. To their honor be it said, they have usually made all necessary sacrifices with astonishing cheer- fulness. The next step is to decide if the rooms can be utilized for hygienic living. A few examples will illustrate actual con- ditions, and the details of management. Case I. (Fig. 1), was a boy of 12, living on the upper west side, with tuberculosis of the hip, seven sinuses and waxy vis- cera. The parents were above the average in intelligence and earning power, though the father was intemperate; there were six delicate children ranging from lh to 15 years; the family resources had been drained by repeated illnesses, and the parents were exhausted and discouraged. The windows could not be opened on account of the proximity of the elevated road. The necessity for the fresh-air treatment in the home was explained and, after some hesitation, accepted by the mother in spite of the father's opposition, and the family was moved into a better flat on another street. The difference in rent, a cot with warm bedding and wraps, and a daily supply of milk and eggs were pro- vided from the fund. The front room was commandeered for the invalid and the cot was installed next to the window, which was kept open day and night in all weather. The boy passed most of his time on this cot, but was occasionally moved to the fire escape on a wheeled chair. His sinuses were dressed several times a week. When the writer visited this patient six weeks later, the thermometer indicated 36° F. in the room at noon, and the mother was enthusiastic about the treatment, though it involved the partial banishment of the family from their best room. She stated that not only had the patient improved, but that all the other children had lost their colds and snuffles and had gained in color and vigor. This patient, in spite of his