TWENTY-FIVE YEARS IN MEDICINE. 170 of the pharmocological laboratories have been utilized, not only in the development of new synthetics, but in demonstrating the varieties of drug-action and offering suggestions for broad- ened uses. Physical therapy, cultivated with renewed ardor, has enlarged the resources of the clinician and established itself as of real value. The Roentgen ray, of importance in medicine second to its use in surgical diagnosis, offers yet unappreciated possibilities, and this is even more true of other forms of light and even of radium. Electricity has yielded brilliant results, even if in a limited field. Climate and exercise no longer rest upon an empirical basis. These years of productive activity have yielded tangible results, not only in diagnosis, but especially in treatment. Diph- theria has now a mortality of one-third that of former days, enteric fever one-ninth, pneumonia one-sixth; while in many diseases their duration has been reduced from one-half to one- seventh of their previous ascribed periods. Considerable num- bers of incurable diseases now yield to modern treatment or are absolutely cured. The health-asset of the country has been multiplied many fold by the prevention of diseases, especially of those of an infectious character. All of this enormous ad- vance in medical science and much more that suggests itself to the thoughtful reader of scientific literature, has come about during the life of one medical generation. The commercial value of the medical man to-day to the community is beyond computation. It has been justly said that the architecturally pleasing build- ings of the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hos- pital, are a monument to Daniel Bennett St. John Roosa. His clear insight into the future, his abiding confidence in the profession, his undaunted courage in overcoming obstacles, his implicit trust in those teachers whom he gathered about him, and his unerring judgment, made the school not only a thing to be desired, but, as we see medical science now, a necessity. Not only must we admire his remarkable work in his chosen department of medicine, of which he was a distinguished ex- ponent, but as well his influence upon every teacher in the faculty, inciting all to earnest endeavor for science and its benefits to matriculates and patients. Himself a writer of terse and vig- orous scientific English, he counted among his associates twenty-