UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 190 seen over this surface through which pus can be pressed. If this condition is recognized, the opening should be enlarged, stretching it with a pair of forceps until the cavity in the lung is exposed. This cavity can then be readily curetted with a dull curette and, if necessary, wiped out with a piece of gauze on a pair of forceps. If no opening'is present, the pulmonary pleura is seized with a pair of catch forceps. It is necessary to use catch forceps in this procedure, because the lung acts freely with each respiration and the successive expansions and re- tractions pull the pleura away from an ordinary pair of thumb forceps. The pleura is then incised with a pair of scis- sors and the opening dilated by stretching, until it is free enough to allow the escape of pent-up secretion. I have never seen any hemorrhage greater than a mild oozing, and the open- ing of the bronchus interferes only slightly with the expansion of the lung itself. The oozing is soon controlled by washing with hot saline, and then, if a piece of gauze is held firmly over the opening in the bronchus, the lung can be made to expand to its full extent. The success of this operation depends first, upon the evacua- tion of all the pus; second, upon the removal of all the lymph coagula, even curetting these away if necessary, so that the pleural surfaces may fall in contact when the full expansion is obtained; third, breaking down all limiting adhesions; fourth, irritation of the pleura to induce coughing; fifth, washing out of the cavity to get rid of all blood clots and debris. The washing-out of the pleural cavity is, of course, open to criticism. The bad results that formerly followed irrigations of the pleura after operation for empyema have created an almost insuperable prejudice against this procedure. I can readily see that filling the chest cavity with fluid while the lung is still bound down, pouring it in through a small opening, and not allowing for sufficient egress, will increase the pressure to such an extent that serious consequences result; but I never allow ordinary irrigation of the pulmonary cavity. The wound must be held well open and the fluid poured in from a pitcher; only so much fluid then enters the chest as can fill the spaces about the expanding lung, and the active motions of the lung during respiration swash this fluid around and force it out again through the opening. There is, therefore, never any increased hydro-