22 NEURITIS. ment he recovered. He has had one or two mild relapses since, but in each case the same treatment has afforded him relief. Case IV.—A man 44 years of age, three months ago began to experience numbness in the fingers of the right hand. Shortly after pain developed in both the radial and ulnar distributions. The pain was continuous, and gradually extended so as to involve the entire arm, the shoulder and the pectoral region. He had always been a strong, healthy man, had neither taken alcohol nor tobacco in excess; in fact had been very moderate in the use of both of these toxic agents. He had never suffered from rheumatism, nor did he in any way show any evidence of rheumatic disease. He had apparently no loss of muscular power. In his occupation he was obliged to lift heavy weights, and except for the pain occasioned by the use of the arm was as fully able to lift the weights as ever. An examination of the urine showed the presence of putrefactive toxins continuously. He has been under treatment only two weeks, and though slightly better has not by any means recovered. Case V.—A man, aged 51, consulted me about a month ago for pain in his right leg, which he had had for six weeks. It began in the ankle and extended rapidly so that in a week's time the entire leg was affected. He also complained of some pain in the back in the lumbar region. He used tobacco freely, but was very moderate in the use of alcohol. He has never had rheumatism, has led an active life, and been free from any severe disease for a great many years. He had the general symptoms which distinguished neuritis. He had a great excess of putrefactive toxins, seen at every examination, and exam- inations were made frequently. Under treatment he rapidly recovered, and was entirely free from pain at the expiration of the fourth week. Case VI.—A man, 52 years of age, a painter by occupation, who did not use either alcohol or tobacco, who said that he had never had lead colic or lead paralysis, and exhibited no signs of lead toxemia. He had never had rheumatism. Pain began in his left hip and gradually extended down the leg to the foot. All the symptoms of a very intense neuritis were present. The urine, examined frequently, showed a great quantity of putrefactive products. Under treatment he re- covered in about eight weeks.