270 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. sanguinolent fluid mixed with remains of old blood clot and a gelatinous exudate were noted. Both tubes and the left ovary were normal and free from adhesions. The fimbriated extremity of the right tube was free and beautifully preserved, situated about 3 cm. from the growth and not connected with it. The growth was attached to the ovarian ligament. No perforation or rupture of the tumor wall could be seen. The growth and adnexa were removed. The patient recovered. From the voluminous pathological report the following is abstracted: The tumor contains an amniotic cavity, 32 mm. in diameter, and is lined by the amniotic sac. The walls are from 1.2 cm. to 1.5 cm. thick, but at the site of the placental insertion the thickness is 2 cm. Within the cavity a fetus is visible, attached to the wall by a slightly twisted cord 11 mm. long. The embryo is of a dirty grey color, and its measurements are: length of body from neck to breech, 13 mm.; length of head, 10.5 mm.; thickness of head, 7 mm. Distinct and recognizable ovarian tissue was seen in the wall of the sac, but in no part were chorionic villi seen within the ovarian stroma. At a considerable distance from the placental in- sertion, almost invisible, striated, tubular formation can be made out. These do not take the stains well and may be interpreted as blighted chorionic villi. It is a cause of genuine regret that the fetus was not sectioned to prove that it was, in reality, an embryo. It has been suggested that unless such proof were brought in these cases, some doubt may arise on that point. Leaving this question out of the dis- cussion, one very important proof of the ovarian origin may be said to have been omitted, namely, the organic connection be- tween embryo and ovary. This histological proof must be insisted on in all cases claiming the title of ovarian pregnancy. It is, furthermore, insufficient in this connection to mention the occurrence of some ill-defined, unrecognizable tubular formations, at a considerable distance from the placental site, and to suggest that these may be blighted villi. At the age of this embryo the development of the villi has so far advanced that they con- tain bloodvessels of their own. It is, therefore, reasonable to expect some explanation from the authors as to this sudden blighting of growing villi and their conversion into almost in- visible, structureless masses. It is a recognized principle in the rules governing evidence, that the burden of proof rests on the claimant. Therefore, unless these points are cleared up, it is difficult to see how this case could be accepted as one of proved ovarian pregnancy. Hewetson and Lloyd (1906).—A woman, aged 35, was admitted to the hospital as a case of subacute appendicitis. She had borne two