vii opinions, and his course of conduct.. For he was tenax propositi. Yet, knowing him for a quarter of a century, I always found that whenever a wisely thought out scheme or view was pre- sented, it got his sympathetic attention, and candid judgment. There were not many men of the breadth, and force, and train- ing, or of the social and scientific attainments of Dr. Roosa. Therefore, he had nearly all the prizes that come in a medical career; and they came to him because they were due him. Dr. Roosa was a pioneer amongst the otologists, as he was also among the ophthalmologists. The measure of his skill and scientific attainments I shall not attempt to estimate now. By associating with them larger activities than are called for by special clinical work, he set a fine and inspiring example to all. As a practitioner and a consultant, he was wise, sensible, and straightforward in his opinions. He had his views, yet few prejudices. His attitude and treatment of his patients were those of a kindly and courtly gentleman. He was no warrior to those who were ill. In medical statecraft he brought about, as has been shown above, much legislation of permanent value to the profession and the public. It is as a teacher and a promoter of a distinct advance in medical education that he will best be known, and as such he has achieved a permanent place in the history of medicine here; and of those endeavors to lift medicine to a higher plane of usefulness and esteem. Dr. Roosa believed in doctors; he believed in the capacity of his own profession to do things, and to manage affairs. This was a part of his gospel; he preached it often; he told the doctor to believe in himself. Because of his insistance upon this gospel he became a personal uplifting force in the profession of this city and state, and, I may add, in the country at large. I salute the memory of Dr. Roosa. We shall remember him for his militant spirit; his robust ambitions', his practical ideals. We shall remember him for his wit and humor; and his ready eloquence in debate; and his love of letters. Most of all, for the honesty of his work; his faith in God; in his fellow physicians; and in the institution for which he worked so bravely and successfully. The sadness comes in knowing that we have lost the com-