36 SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. conscious of the nature of his acts or incapable of resisting the influence of others, it avoids the will (3 D. R. Pa., 534). In Torts, drunkenness is no defence in mitigation of damages (68 Ga. 612). Courts of Equity decline to interfere in favor of parties plead- ing intoxication in performance of some civil act, but have not gone to the length of enforcing agreements against such parties (57 N. W. Rep., 478). Insurance policies are special forms of contracts, and in life insurance policies, if inebriety is proved as a fact, and the party at the time of filling in the application states he is temperate, such established fact will usually avoid the policy; although a jury has even gone to the extreme of holding that a person may have an attack of delirium tremens and yet be of temperate habits (15 Otto, 350). Suicide, in most life and accident policies, is considered a valid defense against the payment of the claim (190 U. S., 121). In the case of dipsomania, the party applying for a policy may not know that this is a form of insanity, and if he states merely as his opinion that he is temperate, such will not avoid the policy; but if he states it as a fact, it will avoid the policy (9 App. Cas. 686). In any case of doubt, however, the question of habits must go to the jury (120 N. Y., 237). as inebriety is regarded as a habit and not a disease in the law on insurance. It will thus be seen that where the condition of inebriety exists to the extent that the patient may commit offenses against the law, become a victim of designing individuals, un- able to conserve his estate, or may become an economic burden upon the State or his family, he should be placed in either a private or public institution for the care and proper treatment of in- ebriety, voluntarily if possible, but if necessary under legal commitment. New York State recognizes no legal commit- ment of an inebriate, excepting on the basis of actual insanity, and then only for the period covering the active manifestations of such insanity, so that the few who are actually legally com- mitted as insane persons, are too soon released in a condition in which they almost invariably relapse into their former state. Fortunately for many of these cases, the adjoining state of Connecticut has wisely enacted laws admitting of either the voluntary commitment of the case by the patient himself or a