MENTAL DEFICIENCIES IN EARLY CHILDHOOD. 215- and quite frequently clefted. Internal inspection of the nose usually reveals numerous deviations from the normal con- struction. The ears often project or are asymmetrical. Aside from the prominence of the eyeballs spoken of, idiots often present diverse anomalies varying from simple errors of refrac- tion to total absence of the eyes. Except the presence of pseudolipomatous masses in the myxodematous, there are no pathognomonic physical peculiar- ities of the trunk which may be helpful in the differential diag- nosis between the numerous forms of mental backwardness. Most idiots are undersized, present more or less marked deformi- ties of the thorax and spine, large abdomen, hernias and narrow pelves. The genitalia are often undeveloped and malformed. The condition of the extremities varies in the different types, of idiocy. The hydrocephile often suffers from paraplegia with spastic rigidity of the muscles, and is thus unable either to- walk or stand. The upper extremities are usually normal, and only occasionally affected by contractures and athetotic move- ments. The microcephalic idiot is an extremely restless creature- and rarely sits or stands still even if supported. Some few of them are completely rigid, and others, when they grow older, manage to walk about. The syphilitic, as a rule, is helpless,, principally as a result of deformities of the extremities and rarefying and softening inflammatory processes at the articula- tions. The child walks as if paralyzed, if it can walk at all.. The Mongolian idiot begins to walk at a much later age than the normal baby. His joints are weak, and his hands and feet plump. Amaurotic idiocy is characterized by muscular atony which gradually terminates in general paralysis. The cretin has a peculiar dragging and awkward gait, and often presents: deformities of the extremities and thickening of the joints. Unilateral or bilateral hemiplegia with contracture and athe- tosis is pathognomonic of the paralytic idiot. Where one hemi- sphere is involved he has a tottering gait. In infantilism the extremities are apparently normal in shape, but their muscula- ture is weak and flabby. A radiogram (see Figs. 9 and 10) of the hand usually reveals backward development of the centers^ of ossification of the carpal bones and of the epiphyses of the- metacarpals and phalanges. In addition to the aforementioned stigmata of degeneration!