310 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. of the genital tract had become infected. The results might have been entirely different, and three recoveries instead of three deaths might have been recorded. In other words, it is hardly fair to attribute these deaths to an operation which might have been done deliberately and in " clean " surroundings with everything to favor a successful outcome. Laparotomy as a " dernier ressort " is an entirely different operation from laparotomy done with deliberation and before infection has had a chance to appear. The case of Webster similarly accentuates the fact that it is not always safe to rely on Nature for the absorp- tion of the blood of a hematometra or hematocolpos, and that a hysterectomy under similar circumstances—possibly with drain- age at the lower portion of the abdominal wound—might have given this girl a better chance than she had. Of course, it is easier for an outsider to offer suggestions and weigh proba- bilities after an operation has been done; but as this paper is written in a purely scientific spirit, no offense is intended in criticizing the results of men whose reputations for thorough, clean and able work have long since been established and sustained. In secondary atresia of the single genital canal without hemato- salpinx, blood collections have, according to my studies in the period of time which my paper covers, been successfully attacked from below 10 times: [146, 148, 150, 151, 155, 157, 159, 162, 163, 164]. There were no deaths. Even a case of Hirst [152], in which a blood collection was unsuccessfully punctured per rectum, recovered after a subsequent hysterectomy. In this secondary group of cases (the really acquired type) I note five cases with hematosalpinx [149, 152, 156, 158, 161] which re- covered after laparotomy. No cases of hysterectomy for blood retention in the single genital canal are mentioned by Fuld. Landau and Pick, only six or seven years ago, wrote: " The abdominal radical operation in gynatresia with single canal has hardly ever been done. Even in the double genital canal with gynatresia and hemato- metra, we find up to 1889 no abdominal radical operation and only six cases in which supra-vaginal amputation (removing the double uterus and adnexa) had been done for hematometra and hematosalpinx, the result of genital closure." The credit for the first successful hysterectomy in the blood-retentions