PYURIA IN WOMEN. 472 BY HENRY DAWSON FURNISS, M.D. Instructor in Diseases of Women, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. Pyuria in women and men has many points in common, but the anatomy of the two genito-urinary systems is sufficiently different to furnish some etiologic factors that are present in only one of the sexes. Urologists devoting their studies mostly to diseases of the genito-urinary organs in men, claim that in- flammatory troubles of the urinary tract, especially cystitis, is more common in women, while gynecologists are of the con- trary opinion. It is claimed that the short urethra of the woman and the close relation of the bladder to the uterus, tubes and ovaries render it more liable to inflammation than the bladder of the male. On the other hand, the very shortness of the female urethra, so seldom the seat of obstruction, gives better drainage than the male urethra, whose lumen is so fre- quently narrowed by an enlarged prostate or stricture. In speaking of pyuria, not all cases of purulent urine should be included; for vulvo-vaginitis, vulvo-vaginal abscesses, endo- cervicitis, endometritis, and abscesses discharging into the vagina may all furnish pus to the urine. Only those cases in which the pus is from the urinary tract are considered. This would include those in which the pus was from the urethra, with its Skene's ducts, Littre's follicle, and crypts; the bladder, the ureters, the pelves of the kidneys and the kidneys; abscesses discharging through any of these are properly included. Until the introduction of the endoscope and cystoscope, diagnosis of the seat of the various lesions of the urinary organs depended upon the clinical history, the physical examination of the patient and a careful study of the urine. Then, and now, these often furnished a comprehensive and accurate means of diagnosis. In tubercular cases instrumentation is usually con- tra-indicated and not to be employed unless the knowledge to be derived is essential and not to be gained by other methods. In young women suffering from frequent and painful micturition with or without pyuria, the idea of tuberculosis immediately comes to our mind, especially when we can eliminate gonorrhea