TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 280 In conclusion I wish to thank Professor H. T. Brooks, for valuable aid in the preparation of this paper and Dr. Douglas W. Cairns for cutting the embryo so beautifully. Appendix. It may, perhaps, not be amiss to touch lightly upon one of the most important and interesting phases of embryology, namely, fecundation. As this study is in line with the subject- matter of this paper, and in view of the fact that the writer is firmly of the opinion that, normally, impregnation of the human being always takes place in the ovary, a short digression into the field of speculation may perhaps be considered pardonable. On the other hand, the limits set to this paper having been reached, brevity has become imperative; therefore, no attempt at a scien- tific discussion will be made, nor authorities cited, but this more complete treatment of the subject deferred for a paper which it is hoped will be published shortly. The reasons which may be given for believing that impregnation takes place in the ovary are briefly as follows: 1. Comparative Biology.—In the lower and higher order of vertebrates, fertilization takes place by the male depositing its seminal fluid upon the ova immediately after their being laid by the female. For instance, in the case of some fishes, the female lays the ova (roe) in a protected, shallow pool; the male, swim- ming leisurely over this mass, drops its seminal fluid upon it. Thus, without contact of the male and female genitals, fecunda- tion is established. The valuable lesson taught by this study is, that the essential act consists in a union of male and female elements and not, necessarily, contact of male and female genitalia. a. The brilliant and successful experiments in artificial fecundation carried out by Spallanzani, Prevost and Dumas, and Rusconi. b. Contrary wise, this is proved also by animal experiments— the socalled negative method. By preventing the union of spermatozoa and ova, impregnation was prevented. Eminent in this field were Haighton, Nack, Grossmeyer, Cruikshank and Blundell. 2. Observations made on the human being.— a. Lecluyse reported a case of abdominal pregnancy which is