3 COMPLICATED MASTOIDITIS. as the dura over a portion of the cerebellum was exposed, and here it was free of congestion as compared to the dura covering the exposed area of the middle fossa above. After completing the operation, the exposed dura of the middle fossa correspond- ing to the roof of the mastoid antrum was incised horizontally over the bulging area, with the result that several drachms of turbid fluid were evacuated. The dura flaps were retracted and the brain tissue beneath inspected, with negative result. The opening in the dura was not closed; the entire cavity was packed with iodoform gauze, and the patient returned to bed in good condition. The duration of the operation was less than an hour. The pus taken from the mastoid, as well as the fluid evacuated through the opening made in the dura, was examined and found to contain quantities of the same characteristic infection shown from the smear examination, namely, diplococcus intracellular is meningitidis. As the temperature, respiration and pulse is here appended, I will not specify in detail as to their variations, as a study of the chart will show them. For several days following the operation the patient was never conscious, except once for a few minutes. This was on the fourth day early in the morning, and lasted only about five minutes, during all of which time he exhibited many, if not all the symptoms of a typical meningitis. The external dressing on the mastoid had to be changed twice a day, owing to their saturation, which undoubtedly came from the opening made in the dura. The wound itself was dressed on the third day, showing but little if any repair. Ice caps were kept on almost continuously up to this time. Several lumbar punctures were made, the amount withdrawn showing on the chart. All of the fluid obtained by lumbar puncture was turbid and showed quantities of the same infection as that before examined. The pupils were unequal throughout the entire seven days. The eye-grounds were ex- amined three times during this period with negative results. On the eighth day following the operation, the patient regained consciousness; the ice caps were removed and kept off two days, to be reapplied upon his complaining of severe headache in the region of the wound and vertex. The wound was dressed every other day, and both the external dressing and packing were found saturated with fluid, but less in quantity at each subsequent dressing.