n-t RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. Case II, reported by Woyer.9 Caesarean section had been perfonned by Chrobak in 1893, the anterior incision being made and silk used for suturing. Rupture occurred at the beginning of labor. The abdomen was opened at once and twins were extracted from the abdominal cavity. The patient died the same day. 'At the time of operation it was found that the wound of the Cesarean section had failed to unite through the entire thickness of the wall. Parts of the muscular wall had never united. Case III, reported by Guillaume.10 This case is of unusual interest because of the fact that rupture occurred in the eighth month of preg- nancy. Caesarean section had been performed three years before, the ante- rior incision had been made and the wound had been sutured in layers. When the patient became pregnant again, she was advised to have labor induced in the eighth month and the date decided upon was May 25th. On May 20th, at 9 a.m. the patient was seized with severe abdominal pain, especially on the right side. At 3 P.m. the pain was most severe. At 5.30 p.m. the pulse was small and thready and there were vomiting and chills. The abdominal pain was at this time not so intense, and the fetal parts could be distinctly felt, as the child had escaped into the abdomen. Laparotomy was performed a few hours later, and the ovum found intact in the peritoneal cavity. The rupture was found to have taken place in the old scar. The uterus was removed and the patient recovered. Guillaume states that similar cases have been seen by Saint Moulin and Kufferath. Case IV, reported by Targett.11 In the Caesarean operation performed two and a half years before, the anterior incision had been made. Com- plete rupture occurred and hysterectomy was performed. It is not stated whether the patient recovered or not. Case V, reported by Everke.12 In this patient the anterior uterine incision had been made and the uterus sutured with silk. At the end of the succeeding pregnancy there was severe abdominal pain, and the pa- tient was brought to the hospital in collapse. A diagnosis of appendi- citis was made, and the abdomen when opened was found to be full of fresh blood. Rupture had taken place in the Caesarean scar; the uterus was re- moved and the patient recovered. Case VI, reported by Galabin.13 In the Caesarean operation the an- terior incision had been made, and attempt had been made, to sterilize the patient by ligating the tubes. In spite of this the patient became pregnant again, and the uterus ruptured at about full term along the line of the Caesarean cicatrix. The child and part of the placenta had es- caped into the abdominal cavity. Hysterectomy was performed and the patient recovered. Case VII, reported by L. Meyer.14 Two and a half years after Caesarean section for contracted pelvic, rupture of the uterus occurred at term. Laparotomy was performed and there was found a rupture of the former scar, from which the placenta projected, and there had been considerable » bleeding. The uterine tissue was very friable. Apparently, rupture had not been diagnosticated, laparotomy having been intended for sim- ple Caesarean section. The operator was certain that the rupture had