THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. 208 eyes, may be of vast importance in the successful treatment of certain of his cases. Perhaps this statement might raise the question in our minds, should all physicians be oculists? By no means. If civilization has advanced in the past two or three decades, so has opthalmology; so much so, that the subject has become too extensive for a physician to master all its details, even those of eye-strain, and yet be a good general practitioner. But while the physician in our larger cities may refer his cases, the urban physician cannot readily do so, and he should be able to understand the subject of the refraction and the motility of the eyes. Let him know at least what may be considered as the standard of vision and motility of the eyes, as well as the normal sounds of the heart and the percussion note of normal lung tissue, and then, having recognized an abnormal condition of the eyes, he may or may not decide to correct it. Is there a normal condition of the eyes? That question is too broad and scientific to answer in a paper of this scope, but we may make some suggestions in relation to it. To do so, I will not consider all the intricate methods of diagnosis used at the pres- ent day—we must leave these cases to the ophthalmologist, who is more or less proficient in the use of certain scientific instruments—but every physician can have a test card dis- played in his office for the purpose of testing the visual acuity. Furthermore, he may have a candle placed at twenty feet in front of his patient, and with a small set of prisms or even the Rod of Maddox, he can test the motility of the eyes. Now, with this simple outfit, and bearing in mind that we do have a standard of vision and of motility, he can readily decide the pres- ence of an abnormal condition that may be the cause of an eye- strain and of its functional symptoms. Let me give that stand- ard in a few words. Our standard vision is usually designated as 20/20., which implies that the eyes are adjusted for rays of light coming from infinity or twenty feet, and that the dioptric apparatus will focus these rays perfectly on the retina,with the eye at rest. But our people are so familiar with the size and shape of the letters that I find we must raise this standard some- what, and I think that 20/15. would be nearer the normal stand- ard; that is to say, we should see letters at twenty feet whose secondary axial rays form a smaller angle than one of five minutes or to make this subject more simple, we can see letters at twenty