MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 365 tion) be given to them. The various types of progressive dystrophies were thus first grouped together by Erb. He also assigned to them heredity as a cause. In 1902, Gowers recorded a case of "distal myopathy," i.e., atrophy of the mus- cles at the distal ends of the body. Spiller has reported another. Etiology.—Muscular dystrophies are an expression of pre- natal inadequate endowment. The inadequacy may hark back many generations, so many that we cannot trace it, or if we can, it is so unlike the deviation before us that we do not recognize it. Jendrassik thinks that heredity does not play any specific cause, for any part of the muscular apparatus, nervous system, skeletal or connective-tissues may suffer from mal-development, all forms of aplasia atrophies may develop. So far as progressive muscular dystrophy is concerned, a num- ber of observers (Barsikow, Sveaze, Friedreich, Marie and Guion, Bielschowsky, Landouzy-Dejerine, etc.), have reported cases in which direct heredity through the mother was ob- served. It is obvious that paternal heredity would be lack- ing, because the male is prevented from procreating by the impotency that comes with the disease contemporaneously with puberty. The most striking feature of the disease from the point of view of its causation, is its occurrence in more than one member of the same family. Of our fifty cases, twenty showed distinct hereditary taints ;in nine instances, two sisters and two brothers were affected; in one instance, three brothers suffered from the disease. In the latter case the father was asthmatic, alcoholic, and had had several attacks of insanity, and a paternal aunt was insane. In another family in which a brother and sister were affected, the parents were first cousins. In ten cases, aunts, uncles or first cousins suffered from dystrophy. In three cases (including the above mentioned case) the father or mother was insane. There were three of our cases whose parents died of tubercu- losis, but this disease as well as syphilis does not seem to play an important role in the causation. So great a role does heredity play in this disease that, in 1884, Friedreich propag- ated his theory of " Disponierende Diathese," according to which the muscle-tissue during its development acquires a diminished power of resistance and impaired nutritional state, and a gradual disposition to all forms of degenerative diseases.