TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 256 The very complete report of the autopsy shows that the Fallopian tube on the left side became lost in the sac wall. The ovarian ligament was not found, therefore, could not be said to connect the sac to the uterus. Furthermore, the left ovary was distinctly seen within the gestation sac. It is, therefore, difficult to understand how, in the face of such a report, the author and others following him, could interpret this as a case of ovarian pregnancy. Puech (1879).—A woman, who had been murdered, came to autopsy. In her left ovary a body of round shape and 2 cm. in length was noticed. With aid of a magnifying glass, an embryonal deposit about 1 mm. in size could be made out. The description of this case leaves the reader unconvinced, because the necessary microscopical proof was not furnished. Collet y Gurgui (1880).—This is the report of a case of ovarian preg- nancy. The author did not see the patient, but received the specimen from another physician who had performed the autopsy. The specimen consisted of a ruptured gestation sac which contained a fetus, the left ovary, epoophoron, Fallopian tube with its fimbriae, and the remains of the broad ligament. This specimen was removed from a woman 33 years old, the mother of two children. She had died suddenly of an internal hemorrhage. At autopsy a large quantity of fluid blood was found in the abdominal cavity, and what was taken to be a left-sided tubal preg- nancy removed. The uterus and adnexa were not removed because the husband objected. If there were any desire to be hypercritical, astonishment might be expressed that a husband, who evidently had con- sented to an autopsy on his wife, and permitted the removal of her left ovary and tube, together with its fimbriae, the epo- ophoron, and also what remained of the broad ligament, should positively refuse to have her uterus and right adnexa removed. Accepting this as a fact, we find, on reading the somewhat volu- minous report, that there was no connection of the sac to the uterus by the ovarian ligament, the tube was intimately adher- ent to the sac, and that no ovarian tissue was demonstrated in the sac Avail. The case can, therefore, not be accepted as one of ovarian pregnancy. Finally, the author himself admits that this case can just as well be interpreted as one of abdominal preg- nancy. This finishes the study of all cases of alleged ovarian preg- nancy in the medical literature up to year 1880, as far as they have been accessible.