398 GAS SEPSIS, EMPHYSEMA, OR PHLEGMONE. and Nuttall, in 1892. The two former are less prolific in the production of gas bubbles than is the latter. While the Bacillus edematis maligni is known to be capable of producing more gas than the Bacillus coli communis, there were no macroscopic changes found in either case that would warrant the diagnosis of a malignant form of edema. In fact, both cases were free from edema. Further than this, the Bacillus coli communis never produces such large quantities of free gas all through the body in so short a period of time; therefore, it can be excluded as an etiological factor in these cases. By this process of exclusion it seems reasonable to regard the extensive em- physema found in both instances, and the gangrene in the first, case as due to inoculation just before death, with the Bacillus aerogenes capsulatus. In the first case observed, the diagnosis could not be deter- mined by a bacteriological standard, because it was not until 1892, when Welch recorded his discovery and gave us a full de- scription of the bacillus, that the pathology of this particular class of cases began to be correctly understood. Unfortunately, no bacteriologic examination was made in the case of carcinoma of the bladder with general emphysema. Nevertheless, it is highly probable that both these cases were due to a gas-producing bacillus, probably the Bacillus aerogenes capsulatus; for this microorganism is known to be widely dis- tributed in nature and can easily gain access to the system. It is also known to be a very prolific producer of large quan- tities of gas in a very short space of time after death, and in the absence of all other conditions, that might be made to ex- plain the diffuse emphysema. Prior to the discovery of this particular bacillus of Welch, cases of this nature, and especially those occurring in the ab- sense of any ante- or post-mortem decomposition, were at- tributed to the entrance of air into the circulation, even though no well-defined cause or portal of entry could be discovered. In neither of these cases was there any ante- or post-mortem condition discoverable that could logically be made to account for this large accumulation of gas throughout all the tissues and organs of the body. Even in the first case, as already stated, it is highly probable that the gangrene of the kidneys was caused by the action of the bacilli, and that it did not act as the cause of the emphysema.