122 TREATMENT OF BASEDOW'S DISEASE. the pulse became stronger and slower (140) and the general im- pression received seemed to indicate a favorable outcome. After twenty-four hours symptoms of toxic myocarditis became marked, respiration frequent and shallow, the pulse disappeared and the patient succumbed under cyanotic symptoms. There was no secondary hemorrhage. The extirpated lobes (Fig. 2) showed irregularly dilated follicles filled with colloid material and were lined with cubical epithelium. The fact that even under the most unfavorable circumstances the operation could be carried out rapidly and with comparative ease, as well as the post-operative course, point to the liberation of a toxic imponderabilium by manipulations during operation, and possibly elimination of too large an amount of thyroid tissue. Therefore, it seemed to me to be important in the first place that all manipulation should be as delicate as possible, force espec- ially to be avoided. Besides, it was evident to me that the gravity of the interference would be lessened by removing only the largest lobe, which would prevent the other extreme: under- thyroidosis. The observation that the Roentgen method has a specific influence of a shrinking nature on the walls of the blood vessels, which can be utilized in succulent tumors, induced me to try the rays in mild cases of Basedow's disease with the most gratifying results. Encouraged by these, I began to apply the Roentgen method as a secondary means of therapy for the remaining lobe. I carried this theoretical deliberation out in practice four years ago in a very severe case of Basedow's disease (Fig. 3), the history of which is published in my report: " Ueber die Combination von Excisions- und Roentgen-Therapie bei Morbus Basedowi."1 Fig. 4 shows the patient thre'e years afterwards in perfect health, a slight trace of exophthalmos still being present, which has since disappeared entirely. It was remark- able how quickly the remaining lobe disappeared under the post-operative Roentgen treatment. One of the most useful features of the Roentgen treatment in this instance is that the gland can be reduced gradually, so that the reduction is yirtually regulated by the operator, whose instinct will lead him to avoid overthyroidosis as well as under- thyroidosis. These results were corroborated by the observa- 1. Berliner klinische Wochenschrift, 1905, No. 20.