263 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. picture which shows perfectly the edge of a corpus luteum. One can recognize in it the peculiarly convoluted wall of lutein cells, and outside of this the theca externa with its vascular wreath. From the theca externa loops of vessels crowd forward between the folds of lutein tissue. Upon examination of other parts of the gestation-sac, remains of the lutein wall are plainly seen everywhere. These remains are positively recognizable as such, close up the site of rupture; in places where the gestation-sac was thinned to a mere membrane, they were crushed and distorted. This proves that the ovulum lay in a Graafian follicle which, after bursting, became converted into a corpus luteum. As Kouwer's report describes the same case, it will perhaps be best, in order that time and space be conserved, to consider them here together. Both authors are to be congratulated—Pro- fessor Kouwer for correct diagnosis and successful operation, and Dr. Catharine Van Tussenbroek upon her exceedingly able and •elegantly written article. The case in question was received by a great many of the best authorities on the subject as one of proved ovarian pregnancy and to this day is cited as such by writers of text books. Unfortunately, it oftimes happens that in so doing the opinions of previous authors are merely copied into the new book, thus perpetuating even errors in references to the literature. It is needless to state that such practices, while they are doubtless timesaving, are not exactly conducive to real advance in the science. If, therefore, one questions the conclusions arrived at by a previous investigator and does a little thinking of his own, in an humble spirit and merely as a student seeking after truth, it is hoped that this course will not be criticized as presumption. In the first place, Professor Kouwer states: "At the place where the gestation-sac borders upon the ovary, a loosely-woven tissue is seen which impresses one as placenta." It is superfluous to say that a gynecologist of world-wide reputation knows placental tissue when he sees it. Therefore, we need not hesitate to accept his assertion that the tissue situated on the outside of the mass where the tumor adjoined the ovary was, as it appeared to him to be, placenta. This is a vital point in determining the implantation of the ovum, and unless explained away would tend to prove that the case was one of secondary implantation on top _of the ovary, after having been imbedded primarily somewhere else. The patho- logist who made the microscopical examination of the specimen does not enlighten us on that point and does not even mention