262 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. the reader of that report for two reasons: Firstly, no microscopi- cal investigation of the tube on that side was made; therefore, the possibility of the case having originated as a tubal abortion and becoming secondarily an abdominal pregnancy cannot be excluded. Secondly, the histological picture of the ovary was that seen in the unimpregnated condition. It looked like, and probably was, normal ovarian tissue. It did not show the histological changes met with in a pregnant ovary, namely, heaping up of cells, hemorrhages, chorionic villi. This case can not, therefore, be cited as having been proved ovarian preg- nancy. Toth (1896).—This case, described as one of ovarian pregnancy, oc- curred in a woman 32 years of age, who had borne one child at term previously. She carried the fetus to term. As this report, otherwise very full and complete, fails to show that the gestation-sac was attached to the uterus by the ovarian ligament, one of the most important proofs of ovarian preg- nancy is missing. For that reason, this case cannot be classed as one of ovarian pregnancy. Tussenbroek (1899).—At a meeting of the Gynecological Society of the Netherlands, in April, 1893, Kouwer, of Haarlem, reported a case of ovarian pregnancy which he had operated on after rupture. For several years I was compelled by the necessities of my daily practice to neglect the examination of this extraordinary specimen. This article to-day is an effort to acquit myself of the old debt and as an appreciation of the honor done me by entrusting me with this investigation. This is not, therefore, a premature publication. The tissue was cut with a rocking microtome, and that may account for the difficulties in the technique. With this instrument it is almost impossible to cut sections in a fiat plane. After a lot of trouble three small series of sections were obtained. . . . The specimen was hardened in Mueller's fluid and later in alcohol. It consists of the right tube and ovary. The tube is perfectly normal. The fimbria? are somewhat glued together, but the lumen is open. No pathological adhesions between the tube and ovary. Upon the ovary a small, round prominence is noticeable. Near the upper pole of this a perforation is seen, from which reddish fimbria? protrude. A cut was made through the ovary and tumor in such a way that it went through the site of perforation. The section disclosed the fact that the tumor was entirely composed of a cavity which was attached by a broad base to the ovary. This cavity contained an embryo, about 12 mm. long, which was attached to the gestation-sac by a short, thick cord. The microscopical examination shows that the product of gesta- tion is situated within a Graafian follicle. At the junction of the gesta- tion-sac and the ovary, a formation of tissue is seen in the microscopical