3S0 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. thickness of abdominal walls. Skin dark, shows no abnor- malities. No enlarged glands. Heart and lungs normal. Muscles.—The muscles of both shoulders are totally atro- phied, and patient is unable to lift shoulders. Where the supra- and infraspinati are normally situated, two distinct, hard movable patches can be felt, which feel like lumps of adipose tissue. Both shoulder joints are loose and there is a subluxa- tion. Patient can move elbows. On deep palpation of the lower part of both arms the tendinous cords can be felt, but these, instead of merging into the various muscles, are con- tinued with paths of adipose tissue. When the arm or forearm is raised, patient cannot alter position, and limbs are entirely under the influence of gravity. The flexors and extensors of the wrists and digits are apparently intact, for the patient can extend wrists and fingers. Cannot raise herself from bed. The mus- cles of the back are almost all wasted. The wasting of these muscles produces a well-pronounced deformity of spine so that when the patient is in sitting position her trunk telescopes into the pelvis. See Fig. 4. The muscles of the neck are intact. Is able to move head in all directions. The glutei are apparently de- generated. All of the various movements of the lower extremity, flexion and extension of the toes, etc., remain intact, all others are abolished. Both lower extremities are entirely under the influence of gravity. The abdominal muscles are only partly involved. Breathing mainly costal. On deep palpation of abdomen, however, contraction can distinctly be felt. Facio-scapulo-humeral type.—S. J., brother of the above pat- ient, 13 years old. P. H. Eighth pregnancy. Began to walk at 15 months. Was never sick when a child. P. I. Onset dates back six years, i.e., when 7 years old. Teacher noticed that he had difficulty in mounting stairs, running, etc. A few weeks after onset, walking upstairs be- came more difficult and finally he had to be carried. He be- came more uncertain in walking and would fall easily. Finally he was unable to walk on a level. Some difficulty in void- ing urine. No pain or paresthesia?. No facial involvement. Upper extremities not affected until 10£ years of age. Unable to turn in bed. Status.—Patient large for his age. Nutrition fair. Muscles