SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. 30 sima ebriorum) with manifold frightful hallucinations, often leading to violent assaults or destruction of anything within reach of the maniac; (c) twilight states or alcoholic trance in which the inebriate appears calm, answers questions of an ordi- nary character without delay and correctly and to the un- skilled observer appears normal. These cases are of especial medico-legal interest as they may, while in this state, do peculiar things, utter indecent expressions, commit indecent exposures, various crimes, and attempt suicide. On the other hand, they may remain in a state of stupor and become the victims of crime. Such an acute state of alcoholic psychosis may last but for a few minutes or continue for a day and usually passes off in a deep sleep. (2) Of the subacute alcoholic psychosis, (a) delirium tremens, (b) alcoholic melancholia, and (c) alcoholic paranoia are the most important varieties. Delirium tremens may run the ordinary course with gastric disturbances, anxiety, trembling, insomnia, delusions with sense deceptions, frightful hallucinations, at times leading up to the highest degree of frenzy, epileptic spasms, mussitating deliria, and finally recovery in the course of a few days or weeks, or a chronic alcoholic state develops lasting for weeks with repeated relapses, or death may terminate the case. As variations we may have an abortive form of delirium tremens with hallucinations, but the patient may seem very intelligent and perform his accustomed labor, although it may be interrupted. Furthermore, we may have a chronic form in which the delirium drags along for many weeks with repeated relapses; also a febrile form with temperature as high as 103° F.; or an epileptic form in which epileptic seizures may occur frequently during the course of the disease. This latter form is not to be confused, however, with epileptics who contract the alcoholic habit and develop delirium tremens from the latter cause. The amnesia will determine this point. Finally, we may have the polyneuritic type or Korsakoff's disease of alcoholic origin, in which the symptom-complex of multiple neuritis, gastric disturbances, disorientation as to time and place, striking disturbances of memory, hallucinations, delusions, and illusions are the prominent symptoms. Sometimes a stuporous state supervenes instead of the delirium. In this type, the disease is usually protracted, often a year or longer, with final