84 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF BUBOES. sacro-sciatic foramen and into the pelvic cavity, and were there, maintained. By this operation it is seen that the pelvic space was drained in four independent directions. 1st, through the opening in the abdominal fascia; 2nd, through the opening in the loin; 3rd, through the opening in the ischiorectal region, and 4th, through the gluteal opening by way of the sacrosciatic foramen. This represents the most perfect and complete drainage possible of the deep pelvic space. I have not been able to find in medical literature, the records of a case similar to this one. I have no doubt, however, that many such instances of suppura- tive burro wings have occurred and have gone by default, as it were, no such radical surgery having been attempted. The patient recovered from the operation, gradually throw- ing off his septic condition. The existence of the necrosis in cormection with the pelvic bone made it very evident that, at best, his recovery would be most tedious. Now, at the end of two years since the preceding operation, the patient is still at the City Hospital going about aided by a crutch, due to stiffness and pain about the left hip. A discharge, owing to the bone necrosis, still persists from a sinus marking the site of the gluteal incision, and also from the original one through the abdominal fascia. After the preceding recital, no one can fail to see the impor- tance of the following rules in connection with bubo surgery. In making a primary incision be careful not to enter the knife- point deeply. Make the external opening so free that there can be no premature closure of the external wound. In order to assure this, a cruciform external incision is often wise or neces- sary. In the case of a virulent bubo, never curette or disturb the necrotic contents, but allow a natural demarcation to take place between the healthy peripheral tissue and that sloughing as the result of the bubonic infection. In the case of suppurative tubercular buboes, after exposing them by free incision, enu- cleate the tumefied glands by means of some blunt instrument, the back action of the operator's thumb often being the most serviceable agent. After so removing the glands, do not cut away with curved scissors or with a curette the sloughing, shreddy tissues left at the base, but leave them for a natural detachment. The cavities of these last buboes can be loosely packed with iodoform gauze.