THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. 205 est form of evolution; but the advance of civilization demands such use of the visual apparatus that the cases of abnormal de- velopment must seek some artificial aid if they will, or must, con- tinue to have the same strain placed upon them. The vast ma- jority of our people do not wear glasses until they become presby- opic, and yet they can use the eyes without regard to time or place without any asthenopic symptoms, because they have a practically normal refractive condition and a normal muscular balance. I do not believe that phylogeny can prove that a re- fractive error or a muscular imbalance is due to environment or to civilization, but contend that astigmatism, refractive myopia, hyperopia and heterophoria are always anatomical rather than evolutional, while axial myopia, I consider as practically to be a pathological condition of the eyes. To apply the theory of muscular imbalance to the evolution of the species seems to me a " far cry," as the divergence of the axes of the orbits bears, in my opinion, no relation to the axes of the eye itself; and Hansen Grut's theory of the position of rest has no foundation of fact, according to my own investiga- tions.3 We may make the same statement as above in reference to the refractive condition of the eyes, as I do not think that the presence of an astigmatism of any kind can be due to the "pres- ent civilized state," nor can I agree with the proposition, " the more perfect our eyes are, the less are they adapted to the pres- ent conditions." The emmetrope with normal muscular bal- ance does not suffer from eye-strain, a fact well proved from an examination of the records of our opthalmological offices. We may well ask the question, then, why is eye-strain so pre- valent at the present time ? Now, we may say that our pres- ent civilization has been the cause of so much eye-strain, if by civilization we mean the constant use of the eyes for near work. The demand for reading matter has increased a thousand fold during the past two decades. Our country is dotted all over with the circulating libraries lending out books to "old men and maidens, young men and children," whereby they spend their time reading, instead of indulging in that healthy relaxation and exercise that the system needs. If we glance at the matter in this way, the etiology of eye- strain becomes very apparent, as, it goes without argument, 3. Valk on Strabismus, p. 51.