482 CONGENITAL STENOSIS OF PULMONARY ARTERY. Personal History.—The patient was born in a natural way, and nothing unusual was noticed about him until after circum- cision—on the eighth day. The same day bluish discoloration of his skin and mucous membranes became apparent. He safely passed through measles, scarlet fever, diphtheria " and a few colds." When he appeared for treatment, he was found to be well nourished, able-bodied and engaged in daily labor-—that of umbrella-making. The whole cutaneous surface was dis- tinctly livid; all the visible mucous membranes and conjunc- tivae were of a deep purplish blue; the eye-balls bulged; the superficial veins of the chest were preternaturally blue and dilated; the fingers and toes were blue and club-shaped; marked dyspnea. Examination of the organs of the chest disclosed normal lungs. Considerable enlargement of the right auricle and ventricle. Very little displacement of the apex. The apex beat was strong, aortic second accentuated, pulmonic sound much modified by a murmur. The murmur was loud, blowing and systolic in time; its point of maximum intensity directly over the pulmonic area, with diminishing intensity towards the left clavicle and precor- dial area. A well-defined systolic thrill was appreciable. The kidneys, liver and spleen were normal. Examination of the blood disclosed 8.930.000 red cells, hemoglobin 160%. This young man was under observation for three years. At the age of twenty-five he contracted a cold which developed into acute bronchitis; on the third day he died during a fit of con- vulsions. No autopsy. Considering the intensity of the lesion with the resulting pronounced symptoms, the patient's lease on life was unusually long. Case 2.—B. F., male, 20 years old. His family history nega- tive to communicable diseases. There were "two blue babies in the family among near relatives." Personal History.—He was born naturally. One month after his birth, a bluish tint of his whole body was noticed. As time went on, the skin became more livid, permanent and pronounced. From his birth to the present day, his health is poor; he is tall and muscular but easily fatigued. He was always subject to cold and coughing and dyspnea. On examination the skin