PRIMARY EPITHELIOMA OF THE VAGINA. 160 hymen, and which extended half way up each lateral vaginal wall. The area of ulceration was rectangular with sharply defined straight borders, as though a knife had been used to outline them. The edges were hard and infiltrated, and the rectal wall was completely exposed, and covered with a gray- ish slough with a necrotic odor. The inguinal glands were not involved, and on deep palpation the pelvic glands could not be made out. Rectal examination showed that there was as yet no perforation, but the outer coat of the bowel was becoming infiltrated. The uterus was of normal size and in position; the broad ligaments' were apparently not involved in any way, and the appendages were normal to touch. The cervix presented a normal appearance with no evidences of laceration. There was a slight reddening at the external os. The examination was conducted under anesthesia and was made with care, but no evidence of disease could be found other than on the posterior and lateral .vaginal walls. The cervix was dilated and curetting obtained from the uterus for microscopical examination. Sections of the in- filtrated margins and of the base of the ulceration were re- moved and sent to Professor Brooks for a report. A tentative diagnosis of primary cancer of the vagina was made, and the disease was considered as having advanced too far to allow of an operation being done with any advantage. The surface and margin of the growth were cauterized with the actual cautery to clean up the slough, and the vagina was packed with iodoform gauze. While waiting for the patholo- gist's report, and in view of the husband's physical condition, the tuberculin eye test was applied through the kindness of Dr. Dunham, but it was negative. The following report on the specimens was received from Professor Brooks: "Microscopic examination of the tissue removed from the margin of the ulcer situated in the posterior wall of the vagina of Edith P.,- age 20 years, received February, 13th 1908, showed narrow bands of loosely reticulated fibrous connective tissue containing' a moderate number of spindle-shaped nuclei. This tissue was arranged in the form of elongated, ovoid alveoli of quite uniform size, which were more or less densely filled with