484 CONGENITAL STENOSIS OF PULMONARY ARTERY. rigth border of the sternum. A systolic thrill was felt over the pulmonic area, but not to the extent as in the two previous in- stances. This boy was under observation for quite awhile. His palpitation improved a great deal, but the evidence of pulmonic stenosis remained. Case 4.—A boy of eleven years. Both of his parents were rheumatic; aside from this the family history is of no im- portance. The little lad was never in the best of health; his main trouble was shortness of breath. His birth was natural. In his early infancy, a physician told his mother "that he has heart disease. " No cyanosis of body or mucous membranes was ever noticed even during exertion. When he came under observation he was found to be of good normal size, but of very delicate health. No bluish tint to be seen anywhere; on the contrary, the color was pale and waxy. The veins of the front of the chest were prominent. The eyes were projecting as in a mild Basedow's. The lungs and other in- ternal organs were normal. The heart showed considerable hypertrophy to the right of the sternum. The precordia was very prominent. The apex beat and the aortic second were accentuated. The pulmonic sound was heard indistinctly. Over the pulmonic area, a violently loud systolic murmur was heard. The murmur could be heard over the whole cardiac .area, but the point of greatest and loudest intensity was over the pul- monary space. The systolic thrill was palpably evident. The toes and fingers were club-shaped. Case 5.—A girl baby about two years old. The family history is negative. The mother is rheumatic. The child's personal history is briefly as follows: birth natural; it has not been sick since its birth. It showed slight cyanosis of the body and mucous membranes since its birth. The tint is most marked when the baby cries. The eyes bulge somewhat, and the fingers and toes are club-shaped. The precordia is. promi- nent and the border of the right heart extends beyond the right sternum. Auscultation reveals a loud systolic murmur over the pulmonary artery; the murmer is heard with dimini- shed intensity over the cardiac region and upward to the left clavicle. There is a systolic thrill over the pulmonic area. The •sounds of the heart, with the exception of the pulmonary, which is muffled, are clear and distinct.