467 SUBINVOLUTION. mentary canal. Gastro-intestinal disturbances of whatever nature, seriously compromise the integrity of the nervous system, either by inducing neurasthenia or aggravating it if it exists." Splanchnic Neurasthenia.—The entire question of splanchnic neurasthenia is one of abdominal plethora dependent on a variety of causes, notable diminished intra-abdominal tension, insufficient lung development, a defective vascular apparatus. Splanchnic neurasthenia is one of the few forms of neurasthenia amenable to permanent cure, by measures having for their object relief of abdominal venous congestion. In any splanchnic neurasthe- nia existing as an independent affection, the relief of symptoms almost positively follows relief of the venous abdominal congestion. • There is certainly a predisposition to the occurrence of ab- dominal or constitutional subinvolution. It is noted in women in whom there is a general inelasticity, an almost complete absence of fat and a tendency to neurasthenia. Such women frequently have little tone. Even the greatest subsequent care in the post partum stage fails to restore the various organs of the body to a normal state. This general state often occurs with- out the presence of an enlarged uterus. In fact, prolonged nurs- ing is a frequent cause. Lactation Atrophy.—The changes occuring in lactation-atrophy are an eccentric atrophy of the uterus with a cavity of normal size, but with a deficiency of muscular elements. These latter cases are frequently associated with small adnexa. The majority of nursing women who have a uterus under the normal size, show all the evidences of poor nutrition, and especially laxity and flabbiness of the general body structures. In " prematurely aged women," lactation is poorly borne. It is in these cases that Fromell finds the greatest amount of uterine atrophy, and he supposes it to be an evidence that nursing deprives the body of a large amount of nutrition. Thorne considers lactation-atrophy to be a reflex trophone- urosis, and believes that every nursing amenorrhoic woman has a hyperinvoluted uterus, without, however, an involvement of the ovaries. He acknowledges the frequency of anemic con- ditions associated therewith, but observes that those cases menstruating during nursing show no atrophy of the uterus. This associated menstruation is an evidence of sufficient ovarian stimulation.