TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 254 Schroeder stoutly maintains that this is a true ovarian preg- nane)-. In the light of our present knowledge, however, es- pecially as details of this case are wofully lacking, particularly as regards the tube on the corresponding side, we cannot accept this as a case of true ovarian pregnancy. Wright (1S69).—Woman of 36, mother of two children, died in the fourth month of gestation. The author does not claim this as a case of ovarian pregnancy, being content to name it extrauterine. Schroeder, in this case also, insists that it is ovarian; hence, it has been mentioned here. It may be said that the author, who saw the case, ought to know, and, probably, is right. Hess (1869).—Woman, aged 37, 2-para, died in the eighth month of her third pregnancy. At autopsy a tumor the size of a man's head was found. Also signs of general purulent peritonitis. The left ovary was absent and the outer third of the left tube was lost in the gestation sac. This is, therefore, a case of tubo-ovarian, not ovarian, preg- nancy. Orth (1874).—At a meeting of the Gesellschaft f. Geburtsh. und Gynec. in Berlin, held in May, 1874, the author presented two specimens ob- tained at autopsy. Both were cases of extra-uterine pregnancy—one of three months' and the other of four months' gestation. Case 1. The left ovary, about twice the size of a man's fist, contains an embryo 16 cm. long and a cord 32 cm. in length. Death of the patient was caused by rupture and internal hemorrhage. Case 2. Condition of chronic adhesive peritonitis which was so intense that it caused a conglomeration of all the pelvic organs into an inextricable mass. It was quite impossible to get the ovaries and tubes free. The gestation-sac was situated in the right iliac fossa. These cases, often quoted as ovarian pregnancy, have in reality very little claim to that appellation. Under the circumstances a critical review is superfluous. Schweninger (1875).—Patient aged 35 or 38 years. After 12 years of married life she became pregnant. The pregnancy lasted three and a half years and ended fatally. At autopsy signs of general purulent peritonitis were found, also universal adhesions between the abdominal organs. In the right lower quadrant of the abdomen was a large ad- herent sac, which was torn in three places and contained a quantity of foul-smelling pus and the small bones of a full-term macerated fetus. The right ovary could not be found. The right tube runs along the