56 BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. or absence of that part of the bladder which is covered with peritoneum. A. Extra-peritoneal: protrusion through one of the hernial openings of that part of the bladder wall covered only with areolar tissue. B. Intra-peritoneal: peritoneal covered bladder wall is dragged down into the sac by the preceding abdominal viscera. C. Extra and intra-peritoneal: in which both types occur. Two-thirds of all cases are of Class A; the extra-peritoneal type. Preoperative Diagnosis.—Rarely has the diagnosis of the bladder complication in hernia been made positively before operation. Certain symptoms associated with the voiding of urine, or the position and character of a tumor above the pubic bone in the direct type of hernia, may suggest such a compli- cation to the operator and put him on his guard. In the 171 cases collected by Brunner (quoted by Moynihan4), in only 19 of them (or 11%) was the bladder complication diagnosed before operation. Karewski19 reports five cases of bladder hernia, in two of which he was able to make a positive diag- nosis with the aid of the cystoscope. There are certain symptoms, as suggested, that point towards a diagnosis. A patient may complain of a desire to urinate when pressure is made upon the tumor, and in one of my own cases, an enormous scrotal hernia, the patient declared that he was obliged to compress the hernia to completely void his urine. Another, a physician, suffered great irritability of the bladder during the day (though not at night), which soon dis- appeared when the hernia was supported by a truss. Some characteristics of the tumor also help in diagnosis. For example: bladder hernias, even of large size, show little tendency to drop down into the scrotum. They reduce slowly and incompletely, and are quite liable to become painful under truss wearing. However, it must not be lost sight of that, even in extreme cases of bladder involvement, no symptoms pointing towards that organ may occur. Diagnosis at Operation.—Having these suggestive symptoms in mind no surgeon should be wholly unprepared. Further data at the operation should assist him in recognizing the bladder, if he interpret them intelligently. A hernial sac that