236 THE POST-GRADUATE STUDENT. ground. All the subsequent experience of both must be in the nature of an experimental life, if progress is to be made. One sees careers checked by dry rot; spoiled by inability to pxpand; ruined entirely by a disinclination to attempt the untried way, or wasted from lack of independence. This fur- nishes a reason for the common belief that the best men in actual life are not those who were the best students in the Universities. The men who shone brilliantly during their college career are frequently so dependent upon others that they cannot develop independently and self-reliantly. After a brilliant and rapid rise and explosion, like a rocket, they drop suddenly and darkly to earth. The goal of success may be reached under various standards. Opinions vary as to what constitutes success. I think it may be taken for granted that success in life means progress,, development, consecration to work, concentration of purpose, the pursuit of ideals, and the accumulation of a competency sufficient to enable one to furnish himself with the proper en- vironment and afford the means of providing for himself and family. The pursuit of these aims in proper proportion constitutes a well-balanced life. Each individual, however, emphasizes for himself one or more of them which absorbs his main energies and determines the bent of his career. After pursuing for a while one of these ideals, it frequently happens that the individual changes his purpose, accepts another, pursues this also for a while, then changes for another. Thus his interests are dissipated, his life appears frivolous and purposeless, and his accomplishments, mediocre. He who selects one or possibly two of these purposes, and pursues them with tenacity, determination and result, may justly be accused of being narrow-minded and re- stricted in his outlook. In middle age he also finds his life a failure; for, while it meets the approval of the public and is. stamped with apparent success, he feels the need of a wider out- look and realizes that he has lost much of the beauty and pleasure of life. The post-graduate student, as we see him in our college, mani- fests many admirable traits and some of these faults. He comes because he is dissatisfied with his progress; feels the need of growth and development; desires association and contact of