SUBINVOLUTION. 462 BY SAMUEL WYLLIS BANDLER, M.D. Adjunct Professor of Diseases of Women, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. In pregnancy the uterus undergoes great hypertrophy, hyperplasia and dilatation, associated with which is a stretching, a growth and hyperemia of the broad and other ligaments, and of the various pelvic structures. In addition, there is hyperemia and congestion of the intra-abdominal organs. The intra-abdominal organs and the abdominal wall are subjected to pressure and stretching by the enlarged uterus. The vascular system is put to greater strain and a gen- eral strain of hyperemia and altered metabolism results. During pregnancy we have an increased amount of watery elements of the blood, an increased proportion of fibrin, a diminished amount of albumin, an increase in the white blood cells, a relative diminu- tion in the number of red blood cells and in the amount of hemoglobin. Before labor the temperature is higher in the last three months of pregnancy, and there is an increase in the ele- ments of the body, equal to one-thirteenth of the body weight. This increase is due to serous infiltration, and to the increased ability of the body to form organized tissue. Post partum, after a temporarily short rise, the temperature is lower, the blood pressure sinks and becomes normal on the sixth day. After labor there is a diminution of tissue-change and a diminu- tion in the amount of urine. The return to normal size, position and condition (1) of the pelvic structures, (2) of the abdominal organs and of the ab- dominal wall, (3) of the general circulatory apparatus and of the nervous system, constitutes involution. This is a process which, for its completion, involves from three to six months and which often never occurs. The failure of involution (sub- involution) may be due to frequent successive pregnancies. It may result after one labor. Uterine Subinvolution.—During uterine involution, fatty 1 degeneration and atrophy of the muscle-fibres occur so that the muscle-fibre may regain its normal dimensions. Failure of uterine involution is often due to congestion in the uterus or