168 TWENTY-FIVE YEARS IN MEDICINE. and the foundations relaid. Here, also, Freidreich, building well with his colleagues' basis, inspired real enthusiasm, in diagnosis which was often exhausted before treatment was reached. In Paris, however, a different picture presented itself; treatment began to receive attention. The teaching of See, Dujardin-Beaumetz, Charcot and Hayem; the abundant oppor- tunity for laboratory and clinical studies, having for their end the treatment of patient and disease and, so far as drug thera- peutics was advisable, the aid of elegant pharmacy, resulted in relegating to the background pathology and diagnosis, not because they were unimportant but because they were essential only as a foundation for improving the condition of the patient and combating disease. The despair of the dead-house which had resulted in German therapeutic nihilism, here was supplanted by a French optimism which was for the good of the patient. In Edinburgh, it was expected that treat- ment would occupy the centre of the stage, as, indeed, it did; but the work of Stewart, Wyllie, and Fraser did not reach the ideal of modernity after the experience of the preceding two years. It was by no means time misspent, for much was learned of bedside management of disease. In the year 1884, the pupil became the teacher; facts which he had laboriously acquired in the dead-house, the laboratory, the dispensary, and the hospital, were now to be utilized for the benefit of mankind. Those who had trodden similar paths were to be aided in practical work, to the end that they might practice their profession in a way more acceptable to their patients and in harmony with a peaceful conscience. For nearly three years the Post-Graduate Medical School had been gath- ering under one roof successful teachers of medical graduates who had been teaching in clinics and hospitals in which they held appointments. The medical schools viewed the growing number of matriculates with dismay. That the physician could need more than they could impart, was incredible. That their teaching was not fully abreast with medical knowledge, was impossible; it was an experiment destined to fail, because its success was predicated upon their failure to fully equip their students for professional lifework. The faculty, many of whom knew from personal experience the shortcomings of medical instruction, with foresight remarkably clear as it was accurate