230 ]\i ASTOIDEOTYMPANOTOMY. brane. The incision is carried outward and downward completely through the soft tissue till it reaches the concha. At this point the knife is swung backward and then upward far enough to make a meatus sufficiently large to admit the index finger. The free angle of this plastic flap is sutured upward and backward to the posterior edge of the periosteum above and behind the bone excavation, and the cat gut is drawn tight enough to widely distend the meatal orifice. The mastoid wound is closed by three or four deep periosteal sutures and a continuous subcutaneous suture. Pack the meatus lightly with iodoform gauze, taking care that a little of it shall penetrate to the bottom of the antral or post-tympanic bone excavation. A wet dressing should be applied. After twenty-four or forty-eight hours the packing is removed from the meatus and not replaced. When the tym- panic membrane has closed, the tympanum is inflated through the Eustachian tube in order to aid the normal readjustment of the sound conducting mechanism. The following instruments are used by the author in the opera- tion: the rongeurs, curettes, front-bent gouge, scalpel, artery clamps, bistoury, forceps, scissors, retractors, needle-holder and needles. The following cases are reported to show the fact that even when the convalescence is comparatively prolonged the results are far superior to those obtained by other methods. Case I.—A woman 50 fifty years old. Operation performed at the New York Post-Graduate Hospital. Previous history: Purulent discharge from both ears for many years. When I first saw the patient she had had for five weeks, symptoms of mastoiditis on the right side, edema, tenderness and temperature ranging up to 101° F. She had not slept for many nights on account of pain in the head. On examination, I found she had tenderness of the tip of the left mastoid. The right mastoid was tender low down and behind; no tenderness of the neck in front. Temperature, 101°+ F. The mastoiditis had been the cause of her developing septic depressent insanity, and she looked forward to a speedy death. The patient was prepared for immediate mastoid operation on the right side. I made a T-shaped cut and found the dura deciduous on the face of the mastoid. The bone bled freely; the bleeding was annoying throughout the operation. I en-