28 SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. that 9% of all cases thus admitted were directly due to alco- holism. In France, owing to the very general use of absinthe in addition to other alcoholic liquors, 13.6% of all admissions to public insane asylums are due more or less exclusively to alcohol- ism and have thus become economic burdens upon the State. Nearly one half of this total number or 6.8% were absinthe drinkers. In the French Official Journal, for 1907, Mr. Mirman, director of the Department of Public Assistance and Hygiene, de- termined from statistics collected for the ten years, 1897 to 1907, that there was an increase of 57% in the number of insane in 36 departments of France during the past decade, thus showing a proportionate increase in inebriety. Again, in the dread disease epilepsy occurring in one of every three hundred persons, it is estimated that 14% of the cases are directly due to alcoholism, and we find it the direct or contributing cause in many other diseases, notably of the nervous system, the heart, kidneys, and liver. Furthermore, Sachs (1900) estimates that fully 50% of all crimes committed in Germany are due to alcoholic excesses, and, no doubt, the percentage is as high or higher in England and America, according to Hammond (1904). It is notorious that most prostitutes are alcoholic, which makes them still greater factors in the spread of disease and the perpetration of crime. Many crimes which become of medico-legal importance are committed when the degree of intoxication is such that the inebriate is incapable of appreciating the nature and quality of his act, his reason being defective to that extent. Finally, in the causation of suicide, alcoholism plays an important role. During the year 1906, the total number of suicides in Prussia was 7298, of which 12.9% were directly due to alcoholism, and of these 11.6% were men and 1.3% women. Inebriety, according to Crothers (1888), has been recognized as a disease ever since the second century of the Christian Era, when Vulpian, a Roman jurist, urged the necessity of treating inebriates as sick and diseased and with special surroundings and by special means. In 1747, Cadillac, of France, urged that the State provide special hospitals for dipsomaniacs. Since then Dr. Rush, of Philadelphia, in 1790; Dr. Cabanis, of Paris, in 1802; Professor Plateur, of Leipzig, in 1809; Salvator, of Moscow, in 1817; Esquirol, of France, in 1818; Crammer, of Berlin, in 1822, all in their time were active advocates of the treatment