PYURIA IN WOMEN. 474 of heat and fullness, and tenderness over the bladder; while in kidney cases there is pain in the region of the kidneys, possibly tumor and at times more or less temperature. In cystitis, painful and frequent urination is more marked than when the pus is from other sources; the bladder can be the reservoir for pus from other regions without itself becoming infected. In tuberculosis of the kidneys, the urine is particularly irritating, and gives rise to bladder disturbance without the actual production of cystitis. The history of instrumentation or of operation in the immediate neighborhood of the bladder shortly preceding any urinary disturbance, would point to the bladder as the organ giving rise to the symptoms. If there is pus in the bladder urine; if the bladder is cath- eterized and thoroughly irrigated, and a second specimen ob- tained by means of a catheter an hour later contains the same amount of pus as the first, the inference is clear that the pus is derived from a source outside the bladder. In the examination of the urine it will generally be found that, after standing, the deposit of pus in cystitis cases is not so compact as when the pus is from the kidney, and that the de- posit is covered by a more or less flocculent mass of mucus. In inflammatory diseases of the kidney, the urine is of lighter color, with a larger albumin-ratio in proportion to the amount of pus than in cystitis, and the pus is deposited in a solid mass, like sand, with the supernatant urine cloudy. With the aid of the cystoscope, the nature, the extent, and often the causative 'factor of the lesion to be dealt with can be determined. As before mentioned, instrumental examination is not to be used in tubercular cases except to determine the necessity or advisability of operation; it is justi- fiable when nephrectomy is contemplated and it is desirable to determine if one or both kidneys are involved, and if only one, the functional capacity of the other. In cystitis it is often observed that the inflamatory process is not general, but localized, and when stones have to be dealt with, there is no better method of examination than cystoscopy when applicable. In very large stones and small bladder capacity, the sound is the better instrument. In the contracted bladders met with after long standing cystitis, or vesical fistulas of long duration, the use of