114 BIOLOGY IN INFANT FEEDING. adapt itself to its environment and food asserts itself. Here, also, it is seen that the great nutritional differences between young animals are not chemical but biological. The same laws hold for adult and young. With the fact in mind that all animals, adult and young, are built of the same materials and require the same general food elements to maintain their existence, although in different proportions, how meaningless it is to state that one of the first essentials in selecting a food for infants is to see that it contains the same ingredients as human milk, viz., proteids, salts, fats, carbohydrates and water, as if these ingredients were peculiar to human milk, and were not found in the food of all animals. The emphasis that has been laid on the " same ingredients as mother's milk", meaning the generic divisions of all foods, has given an erroneous opinion to students who have not studied the general science of nutrition and has con- fused them. It is not uncommon to find young men, fresh from the medical schools, who believe that salts of food mean ordinary table salt, and a study of many of the text-books on children will show that some of the writers themselves have not a clear idea of the science of nutrition. A large number of authors have treated proteids, salts, fats and carbohydrates . as if they were specific, well-defined entities, instead of large genera. After laying down a theory, they sometimes abandon it in practice, and no amount of fitting can make their practice conform to their theory. The one thing that distinguishes suckling animals from adults,, is the form in which their food is supplied. It contains the same elements as the food of the adults contains, classing them as proteids, salts, fats and carbohydrates. Generically, they are alike; specifically, they differ. The fat* of milk is a mixture of several fats; the salts do not exist separately or as a single one, but in combination with the proteids; the proteids assume two forms, principally calcium casein and albumin. It is claimed there are at least two forms of milk-sugar. When it comes to dealing with caseins, it is found that a whole group of casein compounds exists, having differing properties, and many of these forms are used in infant feeding. How can there be any scientific comparison of results in feeding infants unless these differences are recognized and the specific