64 BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. of incarcerated omentum and patient sent to hospital for op- eration. Operation was performed at the Post-Graduate Hospital, Dr. Loughran and staff assisting. On opening the canal a bulging of tissue into its upper part was found, and this merged into a de- cided tumor protruding inside of the cord close to the pubic bone. Constriction of this tumor had been at the external ring. The amount of fat and the unusual vascularity of the mass caused me to be suspicious at once that it was the bladder. This was verified by opening into perineum high up in the canal. It was easily ascertained from within the abdomen that the larger mass was the bladder protruding extra-peritoneally. It was freed from adhesions, inverted and buried under the muscular wall by the Bassini method. Recovery by primary union without incident. Case VII.—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 1138a), May 30, 1904. Physician, medium height and rather stout, about 60 years of age. First seen May 19, 1902. Diagnosis, left complete in- guinal hernia, of two months' duration, size of two fingers through the canal; believed to be omentum or fat; supposed cause, cough; truss applied, which controlled fairly well, but irksome and operation desired. Operation was performed at Dr. Bull's private sanitarium. Dr. George E. Doty assisting. On opening the aponeurosis what ap- peared to be a fatty sac was found well up in the canal. It came out inside of the cord and connected with the abdomen by a rather broad base, but entered the canal higher up than any bladder protrusions seen previously or since, and presented every ap- pearance of a hernial sac well covered by fat. On opening this, it was found to be a diverticulum from the bladder. Its walls were fatty, not thick, and presented none of the muscular covering supposed to be found in the bladder wall. The incision made in the bladder was about § of an inch long. The mucous coat was brought together by small catgut, infolded, and a layer of small intestinal silk used to bring together the outer sur- faces. Special care was used not to lacerate the mucous lining of the bladder. Still another row of silk sutures was placed outside of this. The bladder was then pushed back and the muscles closed over as in the Bassini operation. There was no true hernial sac in the canal. Some loose fat was tied off and removed. t