260 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. tremity it contracted in size to normal. The fimbriated extremity is lost in a cystic ovarian tumor the size of a hen's egg. The latter burst during removal. The ovarian tumor can be well isolated from the tube and in its lower portion, which contains ovarian tissue, a bean-sized corpus luteum is visible. Time and space forbid a full discussion of this most interesting case. Attention will be directed to only one of the cardinal points which must necessarily be established before a case may be characterized as one of ovarian pregnancy, namely, the tube on the corresponding side must be free from the sac and normal in every way. This was not the case here. This case cannot be designated as one of true ovarian pregnancy. Kouwer (1893).—Woman, 31 years of age, V-para, missed her period six weeks and gave signs of internal hemorrhage. Diagnosis ectopic pregnancy. Laparotomy was done forthwith. The right adnexa were removed, and appeared as follows: The tube was perfectly normal and free and isolated from the ovary by a long mesovarium. The lumen of the tube was open and showed no pathological adhesions. The ovary was considerably enlarged. Broadly connected with the ovary was a walnut-sized, brownish red tumor, the outer covering of which was con- tinuous with the covering of the ovary. On the pole of the tumor was seen a rough surface, as if adhesions had been broken here. In a little excrescence adjoining the pole of the tumor was a small opening which, during the operation, was found filled by a blood coagulum, and from which, after the specimen had been preserved in strong alcohol, reddish fringes protruded. A median section through the tumor and which passes through this opening bisects the gestation-sac lying within the tumor and also divides the partly macerated, brownish discolored fetus, which is about 12 mm. long, upon which the cephalic and caudal ends as well as the rudimentary extremities are visible. At the place where the gestation-sac borders upon the ovary, a loosely-woven tissue is seen which impresses one as being placenta. Microscopically chorionic villi are seen developed in the whole periphery of the gestation-sac, and the intervillous spaces contain blood coagula. The perforation did not lead into the gestation-sac, but into the blood sinuses. The fringes which protruded were villi. The opening was surrounded by a thick layer of connective tissue. The covering of the sac towards the ovary consists of a layer of connective tissue cells which, in spite of their greater or lesser change into necrotic decidual cells, showed the arrangement typical for the Theca Folliculi. The ovary itself shows Graafian follicles in various stages of development, the only abnormality being advanced hyalin degeneration of the vessel walls and a few small cysts. For discussion of this report see Van Tussenbroek. (See p. 202). Martin (1893).—At the fifth Congress of the German Gynecological Society, held in Breslau, in 1893, the author demonstrated a specimen of ovarian pregnancy. Twenty years before operation, the diagnosis of