THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. 204 existing error of refraction, yet certain cases also point to the fact that the symptoms may be due to a want of balance in the external ocular muscles without any objective or subjective evidence of a refractive error. The following cases will illus- trate this condition: Case 3953.—Mrs. A. L. B., age 25. Eye-strain, V. = 20/15. each. Rejects all glasses. Refraction almost emmetropic: Latent convergent squint, 10°. All asthenopic symptoms relieved by prisms. Case 4190.—Mr. D., age 25. Eye-strain, V. = 20/15. Re- fraction emmetropic, no astigmatism. Rejects all glasses. Latent convergent squint, esophoria. Prisms of no service;, all asthenopic symptoms relieved by shortening of the externus. This presents two very similar cases, in one of which we have perfect relief with the use of prisms worn constantly, and in the other we could not get relief until the muscular balance was restored by an operation. Case 4744.—Mrs. M. W. N., age 25. Worn glasses without, relief; eye-strain and asthenopia. V. = 20/15, w -t- 1. D. cyl. ax. 90°, each eye. Latent convergent squint or esophoria with dextrophoria. Complete correction of the astigmatism with glasses gives complete relief. Here we present the relief of eye-strain by correction of the- refraction alone. These three cases illustrate very clearly the usual means or method of treatment of eye-strain, in which the final result can- not be predicted until these means are tried; as correction of the refraction may fail, prisms may be tried without benefit and finally a suitable operation may be performed. Under this, method, of procedure, success will come in many cases, and our failures to relieve eye-strain will be very few. But to proceed in the further consideration of the etiology of eye-strain, I cannot agree with Pohlman " that the human eye is subject to abnormality because of the domestication of man " and " unnatural environment," but rather would say that the supposed advance of civilization, which, in the present argument consists of an unnatural use of the eyes, is not the cause of the abnormality of vision, but that the abnormality is shown by the constant use. In other words, the eyes and the entire visual apparatus are the same today as in the aboriginal form, the high--