FRESH AIR WORK FOR SURGICAL TUBERCULOSIS. 351 Case IV.—Our patient, a little girl of three with a tuberculous ankle, as well as her elder sister of fourteen, had undoubtedly been infected by the mother who had recently died of consumption after a long illness. The sister, whose lungs were affected, took entire charge of the father and five children, including cooking, washing and cleaning; she also went to evening school, and brought her little sister to the dispensary. In spite of damp and dirty rooms and insufficient food, our patient made a good recovery from an operation for the removal of diseased bone, at the Post- Graduate Hospital, and is now practically well. We have re- cently moved this family into better rooms and have hired a woman to come in once a week to do the washing and cleaning. Case V.—A boy of sixteen, on the upper east side, was in a desperate condition with a tuberculous knee with sinuses. The entire work of the family was done by an invalid sister nineteen years old, whose sight and hearing were seriously im- paired. This boy, after an operation at the Post-Graduate Hos- pital, and fresh air treatment in his home, made a perfect re- covery. Case VI (Fig. 3).—A boy of six with tuberculosis of the spine had been infected by a consumptive father. One of the sisters had had tuberculous glands of the neck, another had had tubercu- losis of the hip. The mother was an excellent woman and a neat housekeeper. The boy has done well under the open window treatment with summer outings at Southampton. The two sisters have recovered, and the father's trouble is quiescent. Case VII.—In the Brooklyn Ghetto,, a girl of fourteen with left hip tuberculosis with abscesses, was found with five younger brothers and sisters in three comfortable rooms. The father was a laborer at $2.00 a day; both parents were intelligent, re- spectable and industrious, and anxious to cooperate. The case is a severe one, but is making good progress after operative treat- ment, under excellent home care, the open-window and sum- mers at Southampton. Case VIII (Fig. 4), was a girl of seventeen, who was treated at the Hospital for the Ruptured and Crippled for tuberculosis of the tarsus with multiple sinuses. It was thought that ampu- tation was inevitable, but it was finally decided to try to save the foot. After leaving the hospital, the open window treat- ment was carried out in the home and the summers were passed in the country; she now has an excellent foot and is the picture