ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 307 flex intestinal occlusion " brought on by torsion of the tube. In both this case and the earlier one [38] Chaput thinks the torsion of the tubes was consequent to emptying of the blood-tumor and fixation of the distal end of the tube; the tor- sion occurring by a revolving motion, such as is produced in a handkerchief when turned in the same direction between the hands. It is clear, by this time, that the great danger of the blood- retentions lies in the regions beyond the uterine interior, in the single uterus, and in a shut-off cavity in the double uterus. To Schroeder, (1881), belongs the glory of having been the first deliberately to perform a laparotomy in such a case. The patient was a girl, aged 17, who had been menstruating for three years. Since 18 months she had suffered abdominal pain. The following diagnosis was made: Hematometra of the left horn of the uterus, left heamatoslpinx, and uterus bicornis partum septis. At the time of the operation Schroeder in- tended to remove the left half of the uterus but, as there seemed to be a rupture of the hematometric blood into the connective tissue, he contented himself with removing only the blood- filled tube. Later, there was a spontaneous discharge of choco- late-colored blood through the vagina. This opening closed prematurely and required subsequent incision and drainage. The three cases of successful laparotomy reported by Fuld, in 1889, for hematosalpinx in the single genital canal are criti- cized by Pozzi as being inconsistent, because in two of them (cases of Terillon) the atresia was not congenital but acquired. In the double genital canal with hematosalpinx, Fuld was able to report two successful laparotomies in addition to the third one done by Kehrer (which gave the stimulus to write his paper). Leopold adds two previously unpublished cases in which laparotomy was done respectively once and twice in two patients, one patient having hematosalpinx and the second patient having an occluded right horn filled with blood. In the second case the blood-filled horn was left to its fate, both adnexa only being removed. The two patients recovered. The moderate hematometra in the first case and the pent-up blood in the uterine horn in the second case underwent spontaneous absorption. In Wagner's 43 cases, previously alluded to, of hematometra unilateralis, celiotomy was done in 11—all of the