ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 303 which I have never thought worth the trouble to publish. So, I imagine that most gynecologists see quite a number of these cases, and I know that they are often enough handled success- fully by the family doctor. So that while a certain number of them will be considered, it must be understood that they repre- sent, in all probability, only a very small proportion of the cases which are actually met with. In this paper, in fact, I am mostly interested in blood-retention when due to atresia of the vagina and cervix. In the year 1888, Stephen Fuld wrote a classical paper en- titled " Salpingotomie wegen Hematosalpinx bei Gynatraesie " {Arch. f. Gyndck., 1889, XXXIV, p. 19). After going thor- oughly over the literature of the subject, he proved that the management of the blood retention tumors of the gynatresiae associated with hematosalpinx, up to that time, was entirely wrong. He pointed out the fact that the fearful mortality-rate in these cases—with or without operation—was due to the rupture of an hematosalpinx. He, therefore, advised the de- liberate performance of laparotomy and salpingotomy in order permanently to exclude the immediate and remote dangers arising from the presence of an hematosalpinx. Briefly stated, he collected 65 cases of gynatresia with hematosalpinx—some acquired but most of them congenital—and found the frightful mortality of 74 per cent. Of the 48 fatal cases, nine died without operation. In 27 of the fatal operations the hematosalpinx occurred in a single genital canal. In the remaining 12 cases the utero-vaginal canal was double. Although not strictly correct and open to criticism—particularly in regard to the single- horned uterus—Fuld divided his cases into two classes: those with a single and those with a double genital canal. The classification is practical, and, in conjunction with most writers on the subject, I shall adopt it. Since this paper by Fuld was written—about 20 years ago— the literature on the subject of blood-retention due to the gynatresias has piled up enormously. The writer has attempted to go over this material and bring the subject up to date. As this work had to be accomplished within a fixed time-limit, and as some of the monographs and papers were inaccessible or published in languages beyond the writer's comprehension, he begs to apologize for the shortcomings of the present essay.