MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 361 Fibrillary twitching (spinal form), disturbance of sensation (neural form), qualitative electrical change (all forms), and of involvement of the vegetative functions, swallowing, breath- ing, evacuating, etc. 5. The brevity of its duration compared with other forms (average duration from 10 to 15 years) and its uninterrupted progress. The literature of the subject has become enormous. CLASSIFICATION The history of the recognition of the dystrophies is an in- teresting chapter in medicine, and we shall refer to it in some detail later. Unfortunately, there has resulted from the many descriptions of dystrophy, its clinical variation and the attempt to separate several types of the disease, a great confusion of the whole subject. In medical societies there is often to be heard earnest debate and discussion whether a given case be- longs to this type or that type of the dystrophics—quite as if it made any difference to which clinical type it conformed, so long as the diagnosis of primary myopathy could be made. Although there is ample justification, from a clinical standpoint, for the division of myopathies into types, first, in reference to the age of the individual when it develops (such as (a) in infancy, (b) in youth), i.e. the infantile type and the juvenile type (Erb); second, into the part of the body that is first and predominantly affected, such as, (a) the face, shoulder and upper arm—facio- scapulohumeral type, Landouzy-Dejerine—(b) the distal type, i.e., the type in which the atrophy begins in the distal parts of the body and remains confined to them for a long time, indeed, for many years before any of the proximal parts of the body are affected); third, according to the most permanent objective feature, such as enlargement or apparent hypertrophy of parts of the body, i.e. the socalled pseudohypertrophic type (Du- chenne's "Pseudohypertrophic muscular paralysis "). No ob- jection can be put forward to such attempt at classification of the dystrophies, providing it be granted that it is done merely to facilitate recognition of the disease clinically, and that such classification is in no way an attempt to separate one form of the disease from another; but it is because of such attempt that confusion has arisen concerning the dystrophies. There have been so many socalled atypical cases published, i.e.,