169 TWENTY-FIVE YEARS IN MEDICINE. provided the means for remedying the defects. The increasing number of matriculates demonstrated the accuracy of the con- victions of the faculty and efficiency of their plan to meet the demand for better medical practice. One direct result has been that medical schools are now teaching diagnosis in satis- factory manner, although their efforts in the line of treatment leave much room for improvement. The past twenty-five years have been of remarkable fruitful- ness in medicine and especially in therapeutics. The old humoral pathology had declined and the cellular was accepted only to yield to and be modified by that of the infectious. The path- ogenic bacteria were being recognized and their importance in diagnosis appreciated. Later came studies of their toxins which, in logical sequence, the antitoxin followed, their action modified by the alexins and the phagocytic theories made more tenable by work upon the opsonins. The great impetus to direct medication and its possibilities to be reached in the near future, are even yet hardly realized. The old doc- trines of elimination were supplemented by inhibitory action, even when brought about by chemical means. The further advance in this direction was the demonstration of the inter- mediate host and the prevention of many infectious diseases. Opotherapy, resulting from the solution of the mystery of the ductless glands, has borne fruitful results and diminished the number of hitherto supposed to be incurable diseases. Even now much remains to be learned. The studies of the chemistry of digestion, begun in France, elaborated in Ger- many and carried to ultimate analysis in this country, have given an impetus to investigation of the broader problems of metabolism which has already yielded practical results. The diathetic diseases are now approached with considerable math- ematical precision. The blood, in diagnosis especially, yields much information from which pertinent conclusions may be drawn. The excretions, indicating quite accurately end-results, have furnished much confirmatory evidence of previously ac- cepted theories. During this period medicine has been re- classified and a new nomenclature has arisen. In pure therapeutics, the development of the science of phy- sical chemistry and, in particular, the ionic theory has reduced medication to more nearly an exact science. The resources