216 MENTAL DEFICIENCIES IN EARLY CHILDHOOD. idiots often present asymmetry, malformation, superabundance or deficiency of fingers and toes (see Fig. 8), club-foot, anky- loses, dislocations of the extremities, diastases (see diastasis recti abdominis, Fig. 5), and as a result of lesions in the brain and spinal cord, divers forms of paralyses and contractures, and local and general atrophies, etc. As infants at best are not endowed with extraordinary mental powers it is in them quite difficult to distinguish normal from abnormal mentality. Still, with experience one learns to depict the mental signs of degeneracy, especially by bearing in mind the progressive character of the normal infantile mind. The mental faculties of an infant become appreciative with the evolution of the senses of hearing and sight. A perfectly normal baby almost fully controls these senses by the end of the third month. As it grows a few months older it begins to show signs of power of attention, perception and memory—it is delighted by bright objects, recognizes familiar faces, more or less appre- ciates pain or pleasure, etc. When nine months old it is usually capable of understanding certain words spoken to, and mani- fests the tendency to imitate sounds and syllables. At about one year of age, if properly trained, most infants are in full control of the voluntary musculature—creeping, standing, and sometimes walking—and partially so of some of the body functions, such as defecation and urination. Premature in- fants and those of feeble vitality from other causes may acquire some of these faculties at a much later period of time, and yet grow up to be normal intellectually. However, while no standard time limit can be set down for the establishment of one or the other mental function, failure of their manifestation at an age considerably beyond the supposed normal period, e.g., failure of a child nine months old to indicate a fair possession of the power of attention, or to recognize persons who are in its constant attendance, ought to always arouse suspicion as to the normal mentality of the child in question. In idiots or mentally backward children the power of atten- tion is either very poorly developed, or entirely absent. They fail to take notice of their surroundings, stare vaguely into empty space, or move the eyes irregularly in all directions, apparently seeing nothing. This want of attention may be due to partial or total blindness, as is frequently the case in amaurotic familv