241 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY; OPERATION; RECOVERY.* Report of a Case with Microscopical Fixdixgs. by sidney d. jacobson, m.d., m.r.c.s. (eng.), l.r.c.p. (i.o.n'd.). That " Nature hides her secrets well " is an old but true say- ing. It ought, therefore, not be wondered at that the Ancients, lacking proper training and without the more modern instru- ments of precision, knew very little of the finer (histological) pro- cesses involved in the advent and progress of pregnancy. It was at one time believed that, before impregnation could follow coitus, the male " Liquor proliferus " or " prolificus," must unite with a similar fluid of the female within the uterus. Obviously, such a view excluded the possibility of the occurrence of extra- uterine pregnancy. Nevertheless, it sometimes happened that such a condition was found at autopsy. It would have been un-orthodox and altogether reprehensible to admit that the teaching was faulty; so, in order that the fact might be made to fit the theory, the most absurd and fanciful superstition was in- voked to furnish an explanation. Accordingly, it was declared that a miracle had occurred; others stated that this was a freak of nature; still others blamed the evil influence of witchcraft; while some, more radical in their views, dared to assert'that it was surely a case of ruptured uterus. In due course of time, reports of cases of extrauterine preg- nancy accumulated to such an extent that it no longer sufficed to explain them away on such flimsy grounds—some more plausible theory had to' be invented. It, therefore, happened that the medical teachers of that time originated the brilliant idea that impregnation took place if the male semen was, after coitus, absorbed into the circulation of the female, and after- wards distributed to the proper place. One of the beneficent results of this absurd teaching was, that a distinct step forward was attained, because at last it was admitted that physiology must be studied, to solve the problems involved; and henceforth * From the Pathological Laboratory of the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital.