GAS SEPSIS, EMPHYSEMA, OR PHLEGMONE; TWO RARE 392 CASES. BY WILLIAM HENRY PORTER, M.D. Professor of Medicine, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. These two cases of general gaseous or phlegmonous emphy- sema are reported on account of their rare occurrence. The first case came under my observation at the necropsy table in the year of 18S0. The history was that of a woman about 35 years of age, a chronic alcoholic subject, who suffered also from a diffuse form of nephritis. The patient died rather suddenly and without apparent cause. At the necropsy, which I performed a few hours after death, the following most unusual conditions were noted. The body as it lay on the necropsy table was bloated to the utmost capacity of the skin. The distention, however, was not edematous in character, but crackled under pressure as if there was a large accumulation of gas bubbles in the sub- cutaneous tissue. The skin covering the head, neck and face was so much distended that the head appeared like a great round ball, attached by a very short thick stem to the very much distended trunk. The anterior surface or facial side of this ball-like extremity was marked by a decided opening, as it were, in the skin, which represented what had been during life the oral orifice; all the other facial markings were obliterated- When the integument was divided, bubbles of gas escaped from the cut surface. All the internal organs and the areolar planes were filled with gas bubbles, giving every structure examined a distended and emphysematous appearance. All the organs of the body crepitated when pressed upon and gave off gas bubbles from their cut surfaces. All the fluids of the body were frothy. There was no surgical or marked antemortem condition noticed by the physician in attendance that could have accounted for this extensive formation of gas. A slightly emphysematous condition was observed by the attending physician in the region of the neck just before death. This condition progressed, however, with great rapidity during the few hours that elapsed between death and the necropsy. Aside