461 HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. The boy, four years of age, set his clothes afire on July 7, and burned his face, neck, chest and both hands, the stratum papillare being entirely destroyed. The face, chin and both cheeks were burned up to the temples, except the median parts; the borders of the ears were gone and so was the region behind the ears, and the upper parts of the front of the neck down to the bending fold. Xo epithelium was left, so that epider- mization had to proceed entirely from the border. The same condition existed with the chest wound. When the case came under my treatment on August 6, the wounds were covered with granulations 0.3 to 0.5 cm. high and profusely oozing. The chest wound was closed in six weeks and the face wounds in ten weeks, without skin-grafting, which had been regarded as absolutely necessary by my prede- cessor. The treatment was done at home without a trained nurse. Foote writes in his textbook on Minor Surgery: " An epithelial edge will grow about an eighth of an inch a week. A granulating area, therefore, which is an inch in its smallest diameter, will require a month for its complete repair. Areas larger than this should be skin-grafted." The illustrated case shows that we may cover even larger areas of wounds more quickly by this method, without skin- grafting, which we will seldom have to resort to. It must also be mentioned that the scars are softer than in other methods, as the granulations are decidedly less, in fact, so slight, that we seldom need resort to caustics. To conclude: The hydriatric management of burns is partly an alteration of the long-known wet-bandage method, according to hydrotherapeutic principles. It is superior to all other methods in stilling pain, saving lives and securing good results; it is easily performed, cheap and can be underta- ken everywhere. I heartily join in the hope of Dzondi and AVinternitz, that hydriatric management of burns will be the treatment of the future for the sake of suffering humanity.