454 HYDRIATRIC MANAGEMENT OF BURNS. unanimity regarding the question as to what may cause the severe general condition following such burns and the cause of death. Ponfick and Lesser point to the oligocythemia caused by the destruction of red corpuscles; Tappeiner, to the loss of blood plasma; Silberman taught that the thrombotic processes in the internal organs caused the fatal symptoms. The best ex- planation, however, seems to be that of Sonnenburg. He found, by experiment, that death occurs through over-excita- tion of the nervous system and by reflex relaxation of the tone of the vessel walls, and, besides, the overheated blood may cause cardiac paralysis. However this may be, there is hardly any doubt that from what we know to-day of the physiological effect of the continuous bath, it can act only favorably. Hebra, senior, was long thought to have been the first to apply the continuous bath in burns, until A. Rose dug out of the older literature that Passavant, surgeon of the hospital in Frankfurt a/M., Germany, had used it before, and had written an able essay on it in 1858. Hebra explained the brilliant results in 1861, by the permanent maceration of the skin and sloughs, by the prevention of formation and absorption of pus, by the relief of pain and by the prevention of loss of heat caused by the destruction of the epidermis. Hebra's son, in 1877, denied an effect of toxemia upon the symptoms, but Passavant had already expressed his views thus: " The continuous bath presents conditions the effects of which have not yet been made out, but which, however, favor the process of healing. The uniform warmth and pressure of the water are of value. Undoubtedly, metabolism also is increased when compared with that of the healthy skin, as endosmosis is augmented;" and we now know that Passavant was right. Referring for further details to an essay on " The Continuous Bath, in the Medical Brief, August, 1905, the cooler temperature of the bath in the very beginning will not only relieve pain, but, as already stated, also powerfully stimulate the system when succumbing to shock. The bath, as con- tinuously used, i. e., somewhat around 90° to 95°, F. is an invaluable regulator of the circulation and, therefore, greatly helps to correct defects in circulation, stagnation and prevent thrombi, and restores the normal tone of the vessel walls. It increases metabolism and must aid in excreting the pro-