1-' HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. that in such cases the sudden unloading of the poison from the liver and its reabsorption from the intestinal tract into the circulation, increase, for the time being, the toxemia, and so. affect the neuromuscular system that any increased demand in the way of effort or exertion disturbs the respiratory and circulatory equilibrium. Such attacks are more apt to occur in neurasthenic patients, but of their toxic character, in the mind of the writer, there exists no doubt. In the near future we hope to say something further as regards the toxins occurring in such patients. Nervous Symptoms.—These are varied, and mild or severe- according to the degree of toxemia and the susceptibility of the nervous organism of the patient. Headache of the mi- grainous type occurs, yet it is by no means a common symptom. The feelings of congestion: fullness and lightness in the head,, especially a dull, heavy ache in the occipital region, are common symptoms, not only before and during the attack, but, in the remittent type, a rather constant symptom. Aside from the temporary hypereuphoria mentioned as a prodroma, for the most part, the toxic conditions render these patients despondent and depressed. Indeed, when such a chronic toxemia is imposed upon an already neurasthenic or nervously-exhausted system, there is great difficulty at times to induce such patients or their friends to take a cheerful or hopeful view of the case; the marked depression and despondency causing them to believe that there is something ailing with their mind, or that they have an incurable malady. At times, one of the most alarming symptoms, at least, so far as the patients are concerned, is thickness of speech and difficulty in the enunciation of words. This is especially apt to be the case when the patient speaks rapidly, and it may be that one especial letter or an especial word is more difficult for the patient to pronounce than another; as for instance, he may say " shlutter " for shutter, or " glass " for grass, and mistakes of a like nature; this occurring at the same time that the toxemia causes dulness and confusion of thought, which makes the con- dition seem one of very serious import. Such difficulty with speech, and confusion of thought, however, last only while there is an exacerbation in the toxic condition, and no ill-effects are manifest or left after this has been relieved.