131 PERITONITIS. Non-infectious forms of peritonitis are caused by foreign bodies, under which heading we may consider intra-abdominal tumors with a twisted pedicle, such as ovarian tumors; tumors of the uterus; blood, as from tubal abortion or from a tubal rupture, etc. Of all forms of peritonitis the puerperal streptococcic variety is the most dangerous to life. In this we should always look for an external cause. It is usually carried from the endometrium by the way of the lymphatics into the circulation. The course of bacteremia is frequently so rapid that the patients are dead before the pathological changes of peritonitis are completely established. No lymph exudate is found in these rapidly fatal cases, except occasionally in the pelvis. The intestines are not matted together; they are simply enormously distended and have lost their glistening appearance, which has given place to a dull red or reddish gray. Only a very small quantity of serous exudate is found in the peritoneal cavity, sometimes so little that *t is not noticed at all. The patients who die of peri- tonitis and in whom much serous or seropurulent exudate and matting together of the intestines by adhesions are found on post- mortem examination, have had the disease more than two or three days, and they do not clinically belong to the class of acute diffuse puerperal septic peritonitis. When I make the state- ment that they do not clinically belong to the class of foudroy- ant septic peritonitis patients, it is because not a single case of that class can be saved by any known method of treatment. The streptococci are so virulent and the invasion of the system is so rapid, that the patients invariably succumb in from two to four days from the first manifestations of bacteremia; whereas in other cases a patient may occasionally be saved by timely surgical intervention. Symptoms.—In instances of puerperal peritonitis, the disease is almost always ushered in by a more or less protracted and more or less violent chill, the character of which depends upon the vir- ulence and the quantity of the poisonous microorganisms that have found access to the system. With this there is an increase in the pulse rate and an elevation of the temperature. The pulse-beats vary from 120 to 140 per minute and are fre- quently dicrotic. The temperature varies from 103° to 106° F. The temperature, however, should not be relied upon for a prog-