BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. 61 catgut, than to leave the unabsorbable silk to protrude finally into the bladder. So it seems most rational to me to stitch up the rent or in- cision in the bladder by continuous catgut sutures for the apposition of the mucosa, followed by one or two layers of sutures through the muscular and fibrous coats, of silk or linen Lembert sutures, interrupted or continuous. When the bladder wall is very thin, one must infold one layer and close the other over it. The bladder can best be kept empty by frequent catheterization rather than leave the catheter continu- ously in the urethra; and it is by all means best to close the abdominal wound to ensure the cure of the hernia by primary healing of the tissue, and resort to packing with gauze only as a last resort in extreme cases. HISTORIES OF PERSONAL CASES. Case I.—Intra-peritoneal (Card No. 121), December 4, 1895. T. S., age 50 years. Right scrotal hernia of gradual growth and 20 years' duration; no previous treatment; tumor two feet in circumference, extending 14 inches below the external ring; no symptoms of strangulation; incontinence of urine at times. When urinating the patient is frequently obliged to compress the tumor quite violently with both hands in order to complete the act. Previous venereal infection or genito-urinary trouble was denied. Operation was performed at the Post-Graduate Hospital, Dr. Ogden and staff assisting. The sac was found to contain large and small intestine, omentum, and a mass protruding with peri- toneal covering, believed to be the bladder, all freely reducible. The entire sac was stripped out, tied at its neck with kangaroo tendon, and cut away. The canal was closed by the Bassini method, kangaroo tendon being used as suture material. On the following day the house surgeon reported complete retention of urine and inability to pass the catheter. The writer being out of town, the case was seen by Dr. George E. Doty, who found the bladder enormously distended, almost to the umbilical line, and tapped it supra-pubically with an ordinary trocar. On the second day, Professor Eugene Fuller opened the bladder by perineal section, leaving liberal drainage. The case made an uneventful recovery, the temperature at