279 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 1. This patient, a woman of the childbearing age, " skips " a menstrual period. A few days later she suffers from abdominal cramps and has a bloody discharge from the vagina. She later passes a piece of " skin." The bleeding and cramps continue. On bimanual examination the place of the left ovary is occupied by a smooth, rounded, noninflammatory mass. The uterus is slightly enlarged and softened. Clinical diagnosis of ectopic pregnancy was irresistible. 2. At the operation the uterus was found to be but slightly enlarged, in good position, and freely moveable. The right ovary and tube were normal. The left tube was normal and nonadherent. No signs of any kind of inflammatory trouble were visible in the pelvis. The left ovary was enlarged but showed no pathological adhesions. The left ovary was attached to the uterus by the ovarian ligament. 3. After hardening, the ovary was bisected and showed almost in the centre a small cavity which did not communicate with the surface of the ovary. This little cavity contained a few drops of clear fluid. Within the cavity and suspended in the fluid, by means of a short, somewhat twisted cord, was a tiny human embryo. The cord was attached, on the one hand, to the lower portion of the ventral surface of the embryo and, on the other, it was attached to the lining of the cavity in which it was situ- ated. 4. The embryo was examined microscopically by Dr. D. W. Cairns and was not only shown to be a very young fetus, but in addition a section through the fetus and its cord show how the latter is organically attached to the ovary. This proves that the fetus actually grew there. 5. Microscopical sections of the ovary show not only all the- histological elements of ovarian tissue, thus proving that it is- positively ovarian structure, but, furthermore, they show the. fetal villi eating their way into the ovarian substance, which proves that this fetus received its sustenance and support from the ovary itself. 6. Sections of the left tube show it to be absolutely normal in every way. All these proofs of ovarian pregnancy having been demonstrated, and the claim to the title of true primary ovarian pregnancy having been established beyond a doubt, further in- vestigation was abandoned.