PERITONITIS. 142 an ovarian cyst which has become adherent to the floor of the pelvis, in Douglas's cul-de-sac. In the latter instance we can, as a rule, map out the boundaries of the tumor; whereas in the case of an exudate these boundaries consist of the intestines, uterus, and pelvic wall, and cannot be so clearly defined as in an ovarian cyst. To differentiate a serous exudate from a fresh retro-uterine hematocele, from the objective symptoms, without taking into consideration the history, is, in my opinion, impossible. But this is not difficult, when the blood has begun to coagulate, so that in some parts fluid is felt, and in other parts harder masses, especially if we can elicit the history of a probable tubal abortion. There is a difference of opinion as to the treatment of retro- uterine exudates, so long as they have not undergone purulent changes. Some surgeons treat them on the expectant plan, with an idea that they will spontaneously become absorbed. While I have treated some cases by this method, and in a few in- stances with success, I do not believe it to be a correct procedure. My practice is always to make a vaginal section, if permission is given me to operate. This course is quicker and more in the in- terest of the patient. For that reason I do not sanction the use of an exploratory puncture with a needle, unless I purpose to follow it immediately with a vaginal section, and then to pack the cavity loosely with gauze. The section should always be made extensive, large enough to permit the operator to put his hand into the pelvis and palpate its boundaries, so as to see if there are any unopened pockets. This is best accomplished with the pelvic abscess instruments devised by me for such pur- pose. No matter what the character of the retro-uterine exu- date is, my treatment is always of that kind, except in some instances of hematocele. Other cases of acute pelveo-peritonitis should be treated by the expectant plan, absolute rest in bed, the application of ice-bags to the lower abdomen, and light diet. If the acute stage has passed off, circumstances must guide us in the further treatment. In vesical tenemus, so commonly present in acute pelveo-peri- conitis, relief may sometimes be obtained from the administration of the homeopathic mother tincture of bryonia in six to ten drop doses, given at intervals of six or eight hours.