TREATMENT OF CHRONIC CONSTIPATION. 425 assists in toning-up and improving the condition of the body, especially the gastrointestinal tract; so that the stools become normal as regard quantity and frequency. The above beneficial results following judicious drinking of cold water are due principally to the effect of the low tempera- ture of the water upon the mucuos membrane, which induces a powerful energizing reaction. Cold drinks produce contraction of the intestinal musculature and not infrequently colic; because of this tendency, drinking of cold water should be prohibited in persons suffering from enterospasm and intestinal obstruction. In spastic constipation, the fecal current is partially or com- pletely blocked, because of an occlusion due to simultaneous contraction of both the longitudinal and circular muscular fibres. Such enterospasms may occur at short or long in- tervals and last for several minutes, hours, or days. Hot water (110° to 120°) drinking has almost a specific action in relieving and preventing constipation of this type, for the reason that the high temperature of the water has a decidedly soothing effect upon the bowel; in consequence of which ir- ritability is diminished and the contractions become less severe and frequent, or entirely disappear. In many instances this condition can be relieved more quickly when the water-drinking is reenforced by hot abdominal fomentations, which act in a similar manner. In addition to its sedative action, hot water taken internally is serviceable also in the treatment of spastic and mechanical constipation, for the reason that the additional water ingested liquefies the feces and softens any scybala which may be present, and helps to carry away mucoid collections. Several cases have been recorded in which mechanical ob- struction has been relieved by copious drinking of hot water. The good results obtained in this class of sufferers have been attributed to both the soothing effect of the water in reducing intestinal' irritability and muscular spasms, and its mechanical action in dislodging the cause of the obstruction.