MANAGEMENT OF ULCERATED CONDITIONS. 157 with which I am conversant. While I would not try to limit the list of possible nutriments, and while I have personally tried a number of things, the combination of water and alcohol, fat (ether extract), gelatine and albumen, peptone, creatine and meat extractives, salt, non-nitrogenous extractives and other mineral matters—commercially known as "Bovinine"—has been most satisfactory under such circumstances. In skin lesions I rarely use anything else. The glycerinized bone marrow, to which I have already referred, is still sub judice in the treatment of bone lesions. The technique is very simple. A piece of sterile gauze saturated with the nutrient solution is laid over the cleansed ulcer; over this a piece of rubber tissue or oil-silk, extending be- yond the edges of the gauze, is used to retain the moisture and keep out contamination; over this a piece of dry gauze and a good bandage (to support the vessels and retain the dressing in the case of the leg, always begin at the foot) complete the dressing. This dressing should be changed daily or cer- tainly at no longer interval than forty-eight hours. At this time the wound surface and its surroundings are washed clean with alcohol and the dressing repeated as before. The improve- ment is almost immediate. The gauze becomes white where it comes in contact with the ulcer, and is very little changed where it has come in contact with the skin. In an unusually short time —a few days—the progress is so definite that the patient will note the improvement. I would like to give in detail a case"of gangrene of the outer side of the right foot, extending to the arch and almost to the median line. The phalanges of the little toe were destroyed and a necrotic process involving a third of the metatarsal bone was present. Several excellent surgeons said that failure to amputate the leg promptly would result in the loss of the man's life. Two wanted to amptitate above the knee and two below, the diagnosis having been made of gangrene due to endarteritis with thrombosis. The removal of necrotic bone, followed by a nutritive dressing over the area, in which the tendons were ex- posed, resulted in a cure, which, for fifteen months at least, has given no concern. In X-ray burns I have used local nutrition from the first flush, a short time after exposure, and in the most intractable ulcerations, which had resisted treatment for a long time, and