UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. 188 from this article, because it is such a remarkable coincidence that we should have expressed ourselves in almost the same words. As I said, in my article in the Annals of Surgery, my first explanation of the actual mechanical reason for the ex- pansion of the lung was cleared up for me by a conversation with Dr. A. H. Smith, on the evening of November 11, 1891, and since that time I have always explained the matter as I did in the article referred to. Mr. Pollard says: " Every one must have noticed in making a digital examination of the pleural cavity after opening an empyema that at first the lung is collapsed and possibly only just within reach of the finger. Perhaps, after making this observation, the patient happens to come out of the anesthesia sufficiently to cough. Now, what happens? If the finger is in the pleural cavity at the time, it will feel the lung expand, and in many cases come into contact with the chest wall. The explanation of this is obvious. The ribs fall together and the arch of the diaphragm rises during the violent expiratory effort. By this means the size of the pleural cavity is diminished, but that is not all. The collapsed lung is itself inflated. During the cough the glottis is closed and is not at once forced to open by the air which the expiratory effort drives from the healthy lung, for there is a free vent for it from the opposite bronchus into the collapsed lung. The glottis being opened, air is drawn in from outside, and subsequent coughs drive more and more of it into the col- lapsed lung and expand it. Supposing now that the anesthesia is deep- ened. The lung shrinks somewhat but does not collapse to anything like its previous state. It is, of course, well known that it is well-nigh impossible to squeeze the air out of a lung post mortem, and in the condition of things we are contemplating the only force which can act upon the lung is its own elasticity. But there is, I think, during life, another condition which assists to maintain the expansion of the lung. I refer to the blood pressure. Surely this, acting on the innumerable capillaries of the air cells, would produce a condition which I would liken to a number of springs which would together exert a considerable force on the side of expansion. But even if my argument be freely admitted so far, there still remains something to be explained. After the cessa- tion of coughing, although the lung does remain fully expanded, it never- theless shrinks sufficiently to leave an interval between it and the pari- etal pleura, and rapid healing by adhesion between the two parietal surfaces must require actual contact. A simple experiment which I have often made will lead us a step further. After an empyema has been freely opened, air passes in and out of the cavity readily during inspiration and expiration. If whilst the opening is uncovered the chest be auscultated, little or nothing can be heard of the breath sounds, but if a dressing be applied and the chest be again auscultated, after a few minutes' intervals the breath sounds will be more audible and if the patient coughs a few times they may often be heard quite distinctly.