ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 301 (b) infections (scarlatina, small-pox, diphtheria, gonorrhea, etc.); (c) natural (old age, atrophy, chronic catarrhal inflamma- tions) ; (d) mechanical (ball-valve tumors in the uterus, pressure of tumors at uterine cornua on tubes, uterine flexions, carci- nomata, etc.); B. Puerperal. inflammations with ulceration or gangrenous destruction of cervical or vaginal mucosa. The question has been often discussed as to the source of the blood in the Fallopian tube in those cases complicated with hematosalpinx. That there should be an accumulation of blood in the uterus (hematometra), in the cervix (hemato- trachelos), and in the portion of vagina still patent (hemato- colpos), is quite clear when it is borne in mind that the menstrual blood has no means of escape. But the blood accumulation in the tubes has not found a ready explanation. ' There can be no doubt that the reflux of blood from the uterine interior into the tubes is the underlying cause in probably all of the cases at the outset. Autopsies and examinations of specimens have shown, however, that after a while not only is the fimbri- ated end of the Fallopian tube shut off and occluded (as hap- pens in hydrosalpinx or pyosalpinx, and by the same mechanism of an irritative peritonitis), but that all communication with the uterine cavity is similarly to a greater or lesser degree blocked. Hence, the " reflux " explanation does not elucidate all the cases or even the same case at different stages. It has been shown that, under certain conditions, blood may exude from the tubal mucosa itself. The theory of vicarious menstruation is very inviting, and is the one on which I explained the presence of two large ovarian blood tumors which I removed eight or ten years ago from a woman who had suddenly ceased to men- struate during four or six months, and who suffered the most intense cramps at each menstrual epoch.* This theory of vica- rious menstruation is accepted by most authorities (Pozzi, Fritsch, Mann, Martin, Keating and Coe, Bandl, Rose, Ashton, and others). On the other hand, simple circulatory disturb- ances in the mucous membrane of the tube and resulting, perhaps, from pressure of the accumulated blood in the uterine interior *Med. Record, Aug. 19th, 1899.