165 PRIMARY EPITHELIOMA OF THE VAGINA. terior vaginal wall, while the nodular or infiltrating form is more frequently observed on the anterior wall, in the neigh- borhood of the urethra. It sometimes occurs as a general annular infiltration of the whole tube of the vagina. The first manifestation of a primary vaginal carcinoma is usually a single nodular or papillary mass. Cases have been reported, however, of primary multiplicity. Olshausen has seen a case of probable " contact infection," the disease being propagated from the posterior to the anterior wall. Ulceration rapidly follows the appearance of the growth, with a tend- ency to spread towards the vulva rather than the uterus. The pelvic and inguinal glands are usually soon involved. Metas- tases are not common. Symptoms.—The symptomatology is the same as for carcinoma elsewhere, viz.: bloody discharge, foul necrotic odor, pain, and cachexia. The average duration of life in Williams' cases was 16.5 months; the longest was 26.25 months and the shortest eight months. Prognosis.—The prognosis is very grave and recurrence is the rule after operation; exceptions are noted, however, as in- stanced by the case recently reported by Legueu, where he operated for a papillary epithelioma involving the posterior vaginal wall ten years ago, and his examination at the present time shows no evidence of a return ofThe disease. All observers are in accord that pregnancy greatly hastens the disease. Conclusions.—Primary epithelioma of the vagina has been subjected to careful study by a number of observers, notably Bernard, Bonnefons, Polosson and Violet, Peyrache, Trapenard in France; Kiistner, Bruckner, Hirsch, Olshausen and Zizold in Germany, and Roger Williams in England, besides many others who have contributed to the subject. There are probably many cases which are not reported. The case I report is of unusual interest, first on account of the extreme youth of the patient, she being but 19 years and 8 months of age when the disease was first noticed, and second on account of the type of the epithelioma, it being of the in- filtrating type, on the posterior wall, which is not so common as on the anterior; and third, on account of its being treated by radium.