RUPTURE THROUGH CESAREAN CICATRIX. 95 preceded the operation, the accident having occurred probably during severe pains while the patient was in the bath-tub. The fetus was ex- tracted through the rupture wound and the latter was sutured. Re- covery was uneventful. In the opinion of the operator, the original Caesarean wound had not healed thoroughly. Case VIII, reported by Ekstein.15 Age 33; IV-para first seen June 8, 1904. First two labors ended in perforation, the third in Caesarean sec- tion. The patient was warned against future pregnancies (rachitic flat pelvis), but the advice was unheeded. At term pains set in and were extremely violent. After a time fetal movements ceased and the patient was removed to a hospital. There were present meteorism, vomiting, hiccough, small pulse, etc., and the fetal heart sounds were inaudible. Sensitiveness to palpation seems to have interfered with diagnosis, as laparotomy was not performed for two days. Incision was made along the old scar, exposing fetus, membranes and placenta. The uterus was found contracted and ruptured exactly in the scar of the old fundal inci- sion. The dead fetus, placenta and blood were removed and a Porro opera- tion performed. Death occurred one and a half hours after operation. Case IX, reported by Schutte.16 Upon this patient Caesarean section had been performed sixteen months before the accident, leaving a fistu- lous tract from the uterus to the abdominal wall. At the eighth month of the pregnancy which followed the section, the patient fell out of bed, and three days later pain, vomiting, etc. set in, but subsided shortly to reappear in two weeks with evidences of uterine rupture. Laparotomy revealed a macerated fetus among intestinal loops. The uterus was contracted to the size of a fist. The laceration at the fundus was only 3 to 4 cm. long (several intestinal fistulae formed afterward and were eventually healed by operation.) The laparotomy wound was not closed outright, but with drainage. The uterus was strongly adherent to the intestines. No mention of closure of the small laceration in the uterus is made. Case X, reported by Kerr.17 The patient, a IV-para, had undergone Caesarean section two years before for flat pelvis. Labor had been allowed to proceed until the cervix was fully dilated; then the fundal incision of Fritsch was made, and an 8 lb. living child extracted. Recovery was per- fect. On admission to the hospital for a second Caesarean operation, in the thirty-seventh week of pregnancy, the patient stated that she had felt no discomfort since the beginning of pregnancy. She was well nourished and in good condition. After an enema, there was abdominal discomfort, slight pain in the epigastrium, extending upward to the right. The patient fell asleep and slept four and a half hours. Then a bioody vaginal discharge appeared, and the patient complained of slightpain in the right iliac region. Nine hours later the temperature was 97.6° F. the pulse 80, and there was pain all over the abdomen, but it was not very severe; there was no nausea or vomiting. Nine hours later there was considerable abdominal tenderness, but the pusle was good. One hour later the tem- perature was subnormal, respiration more rapid and tenderness more marked The patient lay with legs drawn up, and there was exquisite