73 THE USE OF UTERINE DILATATION. purposes of curetting. Now, it is true that no text-book has failed incidentally to recommend dilatation for the purpose of digital examination, but I hold that the precept has not been emphasized nor sufficiently dwelt upon to induce every practi- tioner to value it as a ready and safe means of acquiring full information of conditions on the inside of the uterus. Of course, I have no idea of making of this measure a trifling proceedure which should be undertaken lightly or without due regard to its importance, involving, necessarily, every antiseptic precaution as regards patient, instruments and self. Profound anesthesia is a necessity, as well as a skilled assistant. In fact, we may, from the first, assume that extreme dilatation and exploration by the finger is but the beginning of, possibly, a larger operation which we mean to carry out at the same sitting, and we prepare the patient and ourselves accordingly; whether it be for a mere curetting or securing of a specimen for the microscope, or removal of growth of whatever character, from a polypus to a fibrous tumor, or the uterus itself. I shall mention, in passing, some points in this connection which are not generally alluded to, but which may well be in- corporated here. They are, first: The operator should recog- nize when he is dilating a cervix that the character of the tissue varies much; dependent upon the age of a patient, whether or not she has borne a child, whether there have been injuries of parturition or long continued disease of the cervix. He should proceed slowly, giving abundance of time for very firm tissue to yield gradually, without tearing, and having a care lest tissue which yields very readily, tear also. Extensive injuries reaching beyond the uterus itself have occurred, so that the operation of exploration has had to be abandoned for one of emergency, for repairs. Secondly, the operator, when about to use the curette, should recognize that the uterus relaxes markedly when a patient is deeply anesthetized. I believe that obstetricians are thoroughly cognizant of this point, and the careful one attending a confine- ment will not push his chloroform to the point of arresting uterine contractions. Furthermore, one should appreciate that a uterus which is being curetted relaxes still more, as if para- lyzed. I have always attributed this further loss of tone of the muscle to the traumatism produced by the curette and, probably, the two causes have a share in producing it.