306 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. be present. Of course, these statistics are to a great extent repetitions of the same cases quoted by other writers and hence apt to be misleading. The most recent collection of cases of retention of menstrual blood in the double genital canal is that of Gross and consists of 90 cases, which are tabulated as follows: 57 cases of lateral hematometra; 5 " " " " with partial superior hemato- colpos; 24 " " " hematometra with total hematocolpos. 4 " " " hematocolpos without hematometra; The cases successfully operated on from below, between 1889 and 1908, according to my own researches, are as follows: Double uterus with atresia vaginae, six cases [93, 97, 111, 117, 140, 145]; Double uterus with atresia cervicis, three cases [83, 89, 101]. In three of these cases an exploratory laparotomy was -first done before the diagnosis was absolutely established [83, 97, 145]. In the same space of time I find reports of two fatal interv- tions, the histories of which I abstract in as short a space as pos- sible. Drake Brockman [S2] describes a case of retention of the menses, during a period of seven years, in a girl with imperforate hymen and septate uterus. An incision in the obstructing membrane was followed by oozing of blood during a half hour. The patient died 26 days later. No autopsy. Dalmon and Monnet [130] describe a case occurring in the service of Chaput. A girl with hematocolpos, imperforate hy- men and atresia of the lower vaginal segment, was operated in the usual manner by a vaginal dissection which had to be made to a depth of five or six cm. before the blood-collection could be reached. After evacuation, the upper vagina was sutured to the labia below. On the third day fever with thready pulse. A mass felt in the rectum was now punctured. Death a few hours later. The autopsy showed that a right-sided hematosalpinx had been opened by the previous operation. There were no signs of peritonitis and the pedicle of the tube was twisted. Chaput attributes death in this case (as well as to another similar experience six years previously) to " re-