/ CONGENITAL STENOSIS OF PULMONARY ARTERY. 483 of the whole body, particularly of the face and hands, had a livid tint. The mucous membranes and conjunctivas were purplish and the eyes bulging. The fingers and toes blue and club-shaped. The lungs showed signs of a mild bronchitis. On percussion, the right heart was found hypertrophied. Auscultation disclosed good apex beat, accentuated aortic sound. The pulmonic sound was muffled by a loud, soft blowing murmur; the point of maximum intensity directly over pulmonic area. The murmur was carried above and below that area, but with diminished force. After severe exertion, the murmur increased in intensity, and then it could be heard between the scapulae. There was a perceptible thrill, systolic in time, over the pul- monic area. Liver, spleen and kidneys normal. Examination of the blood showed 8,930,000 red cells and 160 per cent, hemoglobin. This young man is still among the living, feels better»in the summer than in the winter, and "expects to live to a good old age." Case 3.—R. B., male, 19 years old, weight 130, height 5 ft. 7 in. Family history, negative. One aunt had a "blue" baby which died immediately after birth. Personal History.—His birth was instrumental. Nothing abnormal was noticed about him except that, during fits of cry- ing, his face and body got blue. He has gone through the diseases of childhood safely and was considered a strong and healthy boy. Lately he began to suffer frequent attacks of palpitation of the heart and slight dyspnea on exertion. On account of these two symptoms he came for advice. He was found of fair size and development. His skin was faintly blue; to see it, inspection had to be made in Clear daylight. The mucous membranes and conjunctivas were visibly livid. .There was slight bulging of the eyes. The superficial veins of the chest were clearly defined and imparted a moderate blueness to the surrounding skin. The precordia was prominent—a condition which I observed in all the cases. Fingers and toes club-shaped. The lungs and viscera were normal. The first and second sounds of the heart were distinct. The pulmonic sound was almost hidden by a very loud systolic murmur heard best at the second left intercostal space. The right heart extended beyond the