199 CARCINOMA OF THE HEART. tubes, uterus and pericardium. In the wall of the right ventricle, at the right border, just beneath the pericardium and projecting into the wall of the auricle, was a mass measuring 4x3x2 cm. It was firm, grayish white and infiltrating, and surrounded by blood vessels. The endocardium was not changed. Manifestly, the metastasis occurred through the coronary arteries. Rolles- ton,34 in 1891, reported a case of epithelioma of the penis in which there was a metastasis in the apex of the heart. Pelrourand and Molliere,35 in 1894, described a secondary carcinoma of the heart. Loisney,36 in 1895, described a carcinoma of the heart secondary to cancer of the liver. The patient was a man, age 67. There were no symptoms in the heart. At autopsy most of the liver was involved in the growth, and the central part degenerated and cystic. There were metas- tases in the right kidney and mesenetry. The heart was large, and the coronary arteries were partly calcified. On opening the left ventricle it was found to be much dilated. On the endocardium, extending into the auricle, was a moderately firm, pale yellow nodule, the size of a hazel nut. It was situated on the wall of the auricle, 1 cm. above the tricuspid valve. On microscopic examination the tumor in the heart was found to be adenocarcinoma. The muscle fibres of the heart were disas- sociated and destroyed by the growth of the epithelial cells. Bureau,37 in 1897, reported a case of carcinoma of the esophagus, in which the growth had involved the pericardium and was adherent to the left auricle. The growth was the size of a pea and situated just beneath the endocardium. There was a stenosing growth of the esophagus, with ulceration and per- foration into the middle lobe of the right lung. The sputum was fetid. There was a pteural effusion of 500 cc. The muscle cells of the heart were atrophied and infiltrated with cancer cells. Geipel,38 in 1904, described a hypernephroma with a secondary tumor mass in the right auricle. In the right heart was a tumor, measuring 5.5 cc. long 32 mm. broad and 17 mm. wide, one-third lying in the auricle, two-thirds in the atrio- ventriculi ostium, resting on the tricuspid valve and between the chordae. In the anterior wall of the left ventricle was a tumor nodule as large as a cherry. The hypernephroma was as large as two fists, growing into the renal vein. In the pulmonary artery was a tumor mass, measuring 20 x 7 mm., extending from