TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 259 That this is not the fact requires only a glance at page 419 where, in summarizing*, the author says: " In this case ovarian pregnancy is excluded from the beginning, because of the impli- cation of the distal end of the tube on that side in the formation of the gestation sac." Saenger (1890) reported a case of " ovarico-abdominal pregnancy." The woman was 39 years of age, and the author operated on her for a suspected abdominal pregnancy. Microscopical examination failed to reveal ovarian tissue in any part of the sac. Without further description, it is plain that this was not an ovarian pregnancy. It is included here principally because it has been so frequently cited as an authentic case. Wyder (1891).—Woman, 28 years of age, died from septic peritonitis following laparotomy for extrauterine pregnancy. Upon microscopical investigation neither chorionic villi nor ovarian stroma could be found in the wall of the sac. In this case, as in the one preceding it, ovarian pregnancy obviously does not exist; it is inserted here for a similar reason. Herzfeld (1891).—A 33-year-old peasant woman had borne two children and experienced one miscarriage. This time she was delivered at term, and the author, having recognized an abdominal pregnancy, performed laparotomy. Immediately upon opening the abdomen a tumor which resembled an ovarian cyst presented. This turned out to be the right ovary. It contained a quantity of meconium, a little liquor amnii, and a male fetus which had died at an early period. As no ovarian tissue was found in the gestation sac, this case cannot be accepted as one of ovarian pregnancy. Mackenrodt (1891).—At a meeting of the Berlin Obstetrical and Gynecological Society, held in November, 1891, the author reported a case of ovarian pregnancy as follows: Woman, 32 years old, was always regular. Since a seven-weeks' amenorrhea she has been bleeding ir- regularly. A soft tumor, the size of a goose egg, was made out under anesthesia. Curettage produced masses of soft endometrium which did not show the characteristics of decidua. The diagnosis made was extra- uterine pregnancy. Ten days later the tumor increased rapidly in size, gave pain, and caused some rise in temperature. At laparotomy the tumor was found to be very adherent, but had a small pedicle. It burst during removal and discharged a considerable amount of fluid blood, also old coagula. The fetus could not be found. The tube appeared fairly normal in size for about 2.5 cm., then it rapidly grew larger until it was the size of two thumbs. Just before reaching its fimbriated ex- * See appended Literatuie. I