FRESH AIR WORK FOR SURGICAL TUBERCULOSIS. 346 BY HENRY LING TAYLOR, M.D. Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. The crowning achievement of the anti-tuberculosis crusade is to have brought medical art into touch with the life of the common people. This paper is intended to illustrate this point of view. Modern therapy has emphasized the malign influence of con- tagion, debility and evil surroundings, but it has also shown that even a depraved constitution will readily respond to a favorable environment. It has therefore scotched once for all the ancient bugaboo of inheritance. The battle between depressing and uplifting forces is being waged all along the line, and gradually fresh air is being brought into the hospital, home and daily life, and the patient is being brought out into the air. Surgical tuberculosis is the same disease as medical tubercu- losis, and the general indication for invigoration is the same. Our patient, no matter where the disease is located, must be fortified in his battle with invading microbes, by fresh, cool air, sunlight, a nourishing diet, rest, and a cheerful and tran- quil mind. In addition, the joint case will need local rest and pro- tection enforced by fixation and traction splints, and sometimes surgical interference. We thus come back by another route very close to the idea of ambulatory treatment of the American orthopedic pioneers, who devised apparatus to enforce local rest without confinement of the whole body expressly for the purpose of giving their patients the benefit of fresh air. While under mechanical and suigical care in the hospital, the patients should be provided with hoods, wrappers, comfort- ers and screens, and the windows should be kept continuously open. The nurses should wear sweaters, and the ward tempera- ture in the cool months should not rise above 60° in the day time, and 50° at night; they should preferably be much colder. Cots should be placed on the roof in cold weather as well as in mild. None of these ideals has as yet been realized in our own ortho- pedic ward. The Southampton Summer Home, generously supported by