41G CALMETTE OPHTHALMO-TUBERCULIX REACTIOX. tar. Solutions of the powder are made in sterile normal salt solution of 1% by weight, boiled in a water-bath, filtered, and diluted as required." The solution is then put up in the quan- tities I desired, these receptacles being sealed and boiled ten minutes. The reliability of the test depends largely upon the prepara- tion used, and the technic employed. Technic.—The importance of proper technic has not been sufficiently emphasized. The patient should lie down and the conjunctivae of both eyes be carefully examined and any differ- ences noted. The measured drop of tuberculin should then be instilled into one eye, with a finely-drawn pipette held parallel to the eye. The lower lid is drawn well outward and downward away from the eyeball, when the tuberculin is dropped into the bottom of the conjunctival sac. Special care should be taken that no part of the drop is retained on the edge of the eyelid or upon the eyelash; as may result from a sudden move- ment of the eyelid or head of the patient. Should the patient cry, the test is of little value. The subject may not actually shed tears, but there may be sufficient lachrymation to half fill the conjunctival cul-de-sac; if the drop is then instilled it may float upon the surface of the secretion and, when the traction on the lid is released, be expelled to the eyelash, whence it is wiped off a few minutes later by the patient. It is, therefore, essential to have as little lachrymation as possible. The reaction has been fully described by several writers. A brief description here of the changes taking place will, there- fore, suffice. As a rule, between the third and eighth hour after instillation, a slight swelling appears and a diffuse redness is noticed spreading over the inferior tarsal conjunctiva. These changes are accompanied by slightly increased lachrymation and s metimes by a sense of irritation and burning. The congestion increases, extending upwards over the ocular con- junctiva. The redness deepens in color, and fine whitish, fibrinous filaments are seen on the eyeball and palpebral con- junctiva. Lachrymation is now much increased. In the more severe form of reaction these symptoms are exaggerated. There is slight photophobia, abundant mucopurulent secretion, and ten- derness on pressure, marked swelling of the lids and a more generally diffuse conjunctival involvement. The most intense