CONSTANT PATENCY OF THE PYLORUS. 128 In the pylorus was found a thickening extending into the duod- enum. The stomach was somewhat dilated with walls con- siderably hypertrophied. The gall bladder was normal. The liver looked blueish grey and had a somewhat uneven surface. A posterior gastroenterostomy was made. On the 14th and 15th the patient had gastric hemorrhages, which ceased. Later, pneu- monia developed with very high temperatures and the patient finally succumbed on Jan. 19, 1908. Epicrisis. Regarding the diagnosis of the above case it had»r to be made " stenosis and patency of the pylorus." The stenosis was certain, owing to the constant presence of ischo- chymia and occasional peristaltic restlessness. The rice test as well as the methylene-blue tallow bead also pointed to it. The proof of the inability of the pylorus to close was not so easy and rested more on probability than absolute positive evidence. The constant presence of dark green bile in the stomach, whether food was taken or not, spoke for a continuous regurgitation of duodenal contents (bile) into the stomach. This may be caused by two conditions: by a stenosis of the duodenum below the papilla Vateri, or through patency or in- ability to close on the part of the pylorus. In this case we had to deal with the latter condition. In the cases of stenosis below the papilla Vateri—which - were first described by Riegel and two cases of which «I have myself observed—bile is found in large quantities. The chyme is yellow, due to the presence of bile and contains a very small quantity of gastric juice; usually pronounced subacidity with absence of free HC1 exists. In our case, however, the amount of bile was small, dark green in color, and the gastric juice was abundant with a high acidity. The assumption of a continuous partial regurgitation of small quantities of bile through the open pylorus appears therefore more plausible. The operation showed that this was correct; there was no stenosis below the papilla Vateri, nothing abnormal was dis- covered in the gall bladder, and no dilatation of the duodenum existed which would have occurred if a stenosis of the duodenum at the papilla Vateri had been present. The stenosis as well as the rigidity of the pylorus were determined during the op- eration by means of palpation. Some time ago I called attention to the occurrence of patency