239 THE POST-GRADUATE STUDENT. presents fresh knowledge, but also furnishes moral support and inspiration for better work in the future. Therefore, the post-graduate teacher should be a priest in medicine; he should be progressive and still maintain a high degree of practical conservatism; energetic, but never a faddist; critical, with the power of balancing methods and differentiating their value. Without being didactic, he should be able to present his subject in a practical and interesting manner and, by his personality and skill, to quicken the interest and ambition of the student. Post-graduate instructors in this country have almost in- variably studied in the clinics of Europe. Even to-day this field is very attractive to the post-graduate student. On this side of the water we have a language which is understood by all the students. Even the finer distinctions of words and em- phasis carry weight and meaning; the clinical material is abun- dant and interesting, and the equipment of the graduate in- stitutions is first class. It is only fair to acknowledge, however, that real post-graduate opportunities have developed in the United States only within the last quarter of a century. Before then Europe was the only place to obtain proper instruction. Then, as now, men received a healthy stimulus to future work from the association of well- known men. There is a certain glamor connected with the name of a famous man, and an enthusiasm absorbed from him which makes the work all the more interesting. It is also fascinating to wander through the various countries; to observe their institutions, manners, and men; and to feel the influence of centuries of history, architecture, and art. Without doubt, the pathological and laboratory work on the other side is superior to ours. We must never forget, however, that a serious difficulty exists in one's lack of familiarity with the languages. One is impressed every day with the importance of understanding the fine distinctions which can be conveyed only by emphasis and inflection. With an incomplete knowledge of a language, it is often difficult for the student to make progress. Often when he believes that he has completely grasped the meaning of the instructor, he finds that an imperfect understanding of the language has led him into error, and an entire revision of thought is necessary. Thus he is in constant mental turmoil and con- fusion.