PYURIA IN WOMEN. 473 ' and instrumentation as etiological factors. In these cases a most careful examination should be made for the tubercle bacillus, and this failing, innoculation of the guinea-pig should be tried. Some authors do not include in the consideration of pyuria the condition known as bacteriuria, but as a greater or less amount of pus is generally present, and as the condition is due in the majority of the cases to a mild pyelitis, it seems best that it should be considered in the subject of pyuria. While the colon bacillus is the microorganism usually present, the typhoid bacillus and the staphylococcus have been observed. Whenever pus is found in the urine,'] our first effort should be to locate its origin and determine the etiological factor; the majority of the inflammatory disorders of the genito-urinary system recover spontaneously after removal of the cause. When the pus is from the urethra it can usually be seen escaping from the ex'ternal meatus, or by pressure can be ex- pressed from the canal. The most frequent cause of purulent urethritis is gonorrhea; this can be readily determined by a microscopic examination of the pus. After the acute attack has subsided, pus is at times discharged from Skene's glands, Littre's follicles and the crypts of the canal. There is a condi- tion known as sub-urethral abscess, or abscess of the urethro- vaginal septum, which produces an enlargement beneath the urethra and which intermittently discharges pus into the urethra through a narrow opening on its floor. Howard Kelly studied one of these microscopically and came to the conclusion that it was a dilated follicle. The bladder is the common reservoir for the urine from both kidneys, and in cases of pyuria it is our endeavor to determine if the pus is produced in the bladder, or is deposited here from other sources. To this end we are aided by the history, past and present; the examination of the patient; the study of the urine ; bladder-washing; cystoscopic examination and ureteral catheterization. In the acute cases, as a rule, there is not much difficulty in locating the source of the pus, for then local symptoms are sufficiently intense to point to the origin of the trouble. In urethritis there is the discharge and the very painful urination; in cystitis the painful and frequent urination, with a sense