SURGERY OF ACUTE PANCREATITIS. 221 a little higher than normal. Abdomen distended, tender all over, es- pecially in the hypogastrium, more on the left side, than on the right. Flatness in the flanks. Tremor of the hands; occasional motions like those in tetany. Pulse about 100, regular and full. Temperature be- tween 100 and 101째 F. Blood examination: White blood corpuscles, 22,000; polynuclear cells, 91%. The patient was taken to'the operating room within two hours after his admission. The symptoms pointing to diffuse peritonitis, a long median incision was made. Free turbid fluid escaped, which was sero- purulent toward the pelvis. The appendix was found normal. Small spots of whitish material were seen here and there on the peritoneum and the intestines. These could not be rubbed off; they were areas of fat necrosis. These were distributed throughout the peritoneum, very sparsely on the small intestines; a little more on the descending colon; still more, but still in discreet spots, on the mesentery of the small in- testine; considerably more and confluent areas on the mesentery of the ascending and descending colon; very thickly on the mesentery of the transverse colon and in its neighborhood, particularly at the pancreas, which was enlarged and firmly united with the stomach, duodenum, omentum, and liver; the whole conglomerate of organs being covered by this necrotic tissue. Lavage with saline solution; closure of wound without drainage. After the operation the patient was quite restless; he slept at short intervals, talked aloud while apparently sleeping, and picked at the bedclothes. Saline enemata, one quart, containing an ounce of whiskey were given on the first and second days by the slow drop method accord- ing to Murphy. On the second day delirium set in, gradually getting worse. Patient got out of bed. On the third day the delirium became more and more violent; it was viewed as delirium tremens and the pa- tient was isolated. The temperature, which hitherto had gone no higher than 101째 F., rose in the night of the third day to 102.8째 F., and on the fourth day, just before death, to 103.4째 F. The autopsy, performed by Dr. F. C. Wood, revealed the presence of red hepatization in the greater part of the right lung and deep congestion of the posterior part of the left lung. In the abdomen no fluid was found, nor other sign of peritonitis. The findings in respect to fat necrosis were the same as those at the operation, except that in the au- topsy report no mention is made of small, discreet spots on the intes- tines, such as were found at the operation. It seems, therefore, that these were absorbed in the interval between the operation and the au- topsy. The pancreas was found to be about two and one-half times the normal size and of firm consistency. No hemorrhage; no pus. On section, white granular areas of irregular form and varying size were seen. The duct of Wirsung was patent and contained no bile; its opening into the duodenum was separate from that of the common bile duct; No stones in the pancreatic or biliary ducts. Liver normal; biliary system normal; ducts patent. Stomach normal; intestine normal, ex- cept for follicular enteritis in the lower part of the ileum. Anatomical diagnosis: Acute pancreatitis; lobar pneumonia.