ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 311 belongs to an American—John Homans—who (in the Boston Med. and Surgical Journal, Sept. 8, 1883) reported a supra- vaginal amputation of a uterus bicornis in a girl 18 years old. In 1901, L. Landau did the first total abdominal hysterectomy for blood-retention in the single canal. Since 1889 I find the following: For the blood-retention in the single genital canal due to primary atresia, abdominal hysterectomy has been done 10 times. The fol- lowing recovered: Supravaginal hysterectomy [25, 34, 65, 70] 4 cases Total hysterectomy [54, 57, 77] 3 cases Total 7 cases To this should be added my case (total hysterectomy) 1 case Total 8 cases With fatal result 3 abdominal hysterectomies were done: Supra-vaginal hysterectomy [14, 17, 66] 3 cases. In reviewing the fatal cases we find that the autopsy in Rossa's case [14] showed a right sided congenital hydronephrosis with valvular endocarditis, in addition to the pelvic conditions. In Murphy's case, after preliminary, vaginal puncture, hysterec- tomy was done. The " broad ligament was sutured to the abdominal wound " and hemorrhage was controlled by gauze packing. Four months later the abdomen reopened was found to contain nearly four pints (60 ounces) of blood. Abdomen was closed without doing anything. Five weeks later the wound burst open again with the discharge of much serous brown fluid. The patient refused (!) further intervention and died shortly after- wards. In Moullin's case [66], the blood-retention cyst, after vaginal dissection, was punctured. The opening had closed three months later. Laparotomy and hysterectomy now done. Foul- smelling pus gushed from the cervical canal. Vaginal drainage. Death three weeks later. We agree with Moullin when he says: " There is no reason why, had hysterectomy been done in the first instance, the patient should not have made a good recovery." For the blood-retentions in the single genital canal due to sec- ondary atresia, hysterectomy has been done successfully five times:.