137 PERITONITIS. prognosis is by no means so unfavorable as that of a puerperal septic peritonitis. The majority of cases recover. The posi- tive diagnosis depends upon the finding of gonococci in the geni- tal tract. While diffuse peritonitis of gonorrheal origin during the puerperium is not nearly so dangerous as streptococcic peri- tonitis, or peritonitis caused by a mixed infection, it is not of such absolutely good prognosis as some authors would have us believe. While perhaps the greater number of patients will recover without surgical intervention, there are doubtless some cases that would be fatal if not operated upon. Leopold has published (Centrctlblatt fur Gynakologie, 1907) a very interesting instance of exceedingly virulent diffuse gonococcic peritonitis, from which, according to the description, the patient would undoubtedly have died, had he not made the abdominal incisions and instituted drainage. In such instances an extensive vaginal section, with the placing of a drain in the cul-de-sac, should be added. If a patient's condition is not improved after two days' treatment, it is better to resort to operation. I have but very limited experience with diffuse puerperal peritonitis of gonorrheal origin, but it seems to me that an extensive vaginal section with drainage, the semi-sitting position, the application of an ice-coil, and the internal administration of opium to the" extent advised by the late Dr. Alonzo Clark, suffice to bring about a favorable result. While opium as a rule should be deprecated in peritonitis, I am confident there are exceptions. It is likely that it was in just such cases of puerperal peritonitis that Clark had such good results, even without surgical inter- vention. Tubercular peritonitis is usually insidious in its onset. In most instances it starts from the pelvic organs, though the starting point may sometimes be from another part within the abdomen, as the intestines. In such cases the interior of the tubes is rarely infected with tuberculous products and the tuber- cles are then usually limited to the serous covering of the tubes. Clinically, it may be divided into the dry and the exudative varieties. In the exudative variety more or less fluid is always found in the peritoneal cavity. The fluid may be diffuse or it may be encapsulated, forming sacculated tumors in various parts of the