MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 376 sometimes the muscles of the face and shoulders are affected, in others the calves and back muscles are first affected. Con- genital spastic paraplegia is characterized by spasticity and its accompanying syndrome. In syringomyelia, which may occasionally resemble this disease, there is usually dissociation of sensibility, and the small muscles of the hands are, as a rule, first attacked, giving the hand a claw-shaped appearance, the main en griffe, and usually show reaction of degeneration. Progressive muscular atrophy begins late in life; it is preceded and accompanied by fibillary twitchings; there is no pseudo- hypertrophy, and the disease usually begins in the small muscles of the hands and travels upward. TREATMENT. Nothing can be done to arrest the progress of this disease. The cause for this deficiency in therapy lies evidently in the fact that it is a disease of evolution. As a propyhlactic measure little can be done beyond advising individuals suffering from this dis- ease, having neuropathic tendencies, not to overtax the neuro- muscular system. At the same time, however, systematized ex- ercise of the muscles should be practiced. The general care of such individuals, with especial attention to the nutrition, is very important. After the dystrophies have appeared, a great deal can be done in delaying the progress of the disease by proper gymnastics, massage, electricity, diet, and cooperation of the orthopedic surgeon. The type of gymnastics best adapted for this disease is the resistant form. Great care, however, is to be taken that too much strain is not placed upon the atrophied muscles. Gymnastics have benefited especially a few cases of the scapulo-humeral type, and when properly applied they may improve even the pseudo-hypertrophic type. We consider that electricity, when properly handled, may be of some service. It can prevent, at least, atrophy due to inactivity. When applying electricity to this form of disease, we usually choose the faradic and to a lesser extent the gal- vanic currents. The former is used for a small number of short contractions of the atrophied muscles without producing any fatigue; while the galvanic, when used moderately, im- proves the circulation. Massage, especially the kneading form, tending to increase