TWENTY-FIVE YEARS IN MEDICINE. 167 BY REYNOLD WEBB WILCOX, M.D., LL.D. Professor of Medicine in the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. As one reviews a quarter of a century and its work in the practice of a special branch of the art of healing, only land- marks along the road traveled recall themselves. These may not be the really important ones, unless one takes himself from his daily routine of important matters and petty details and adjusts his perspective. In all recollections the personal ele- ment must obtrude itself. The most lasting impressions are, doubtless, those made by our early teachers, for through them we lay the foundations for future careers. These facts, doubt- less, represented the best in medical knowledge of that period. Fitz, in pathology; Shattuck, since a professor, in diagnosis, then mostly physical and practically limited to auscultation and percussion, Minot, in theory and practice, with Ellis teaching the clinical aspects of medicine, and Edes in therapeutics, es- sentially pharmacal, were all men of broad culture, substantial information and scientific enthusiasm. Nothing was presented but in accord with the highest professional ideals, and repre- sented the best of American teaching. Looking back upon it from the standpoint of present century ideals, one may say that the foundation was substantial in pathology, in diagnosis and in theory; but the guiding hand of the master in application of these principles leading to a therapeutic conclusion, which should be of the greatest value to the patient, was not to be found. The training was the best of its time, but to-day more is demanded. In Vienna, the work of Bamberger and Duchek, and to a less extent that of Mynert, was followed and considerable personal experience was acquired and practical information obtained; but treatment was either routine or skeptical, and the result to the patient came chiefly in verifying pathological diagnoses and adding to the collection of morbid statistics. Pathology seemed to occupy so much of medical thought and diagnosis less, with treatment almost a negligible quantity, that this branch was again seriously taken up with Arnold, at Heidelberg,