CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. 149- necessary in a case operated on by him in 1888. He reports anchylosis with a useful limb. Complete excision is a last resort for very extreme cases, usually of long standing, where nothing short of it will overcome the conditions found. In most cases of extreme deformity following Pott's fracture, if the deflection of the foot cannot be overcome because of short- ened tissue or changed articular surfaces, resection of the bone making up one side of the articulation, preferably the tibia, will in most instances make the foot movable enough to bring it in line with the axis of the leg. If the resection is confined to one side of the joint, without disturbing the cartilage on the other, a movable joint, as a rule, results. Again, suit the pro- cedure to the requirements of conditions found. As in the case of the deformity shown in radiograph No. 3, where the astragalus is displaced backward, carrying with it the lower fragment of the fibula, which has united in that position. The foot is extended.. Dr. Phelps, who was the operator, reported that after dividing the fibula, he was unable to flex the foot or bring the astragalus into a correct position beneath the tibia. Entering the joint from the inner side, he resected enough, from the upper surface of the astragalus to allow the foot to come forward. The result was a movable ankle and useful foot. April 1, 1893, Dr. Shrady published in the Medical Record, a report of an operation devised and performed by him, to over- come extreme outward and backward dislocation of the foot, following Pott's fracture of two year's standing, with ununited fragments of fibula. As far as I know, this may be called Shrady's operation, and is especially adapted to such extreme cases as he mentions. This, too, like the other operations for the recent conditions, must be modified to suit the case. In describing it, I quote from his article. He says: " The amount of surrounding consolidation was so great, the axis of deflection so extreme, that I concluded to devise a method that would apply to this particular case. I resected the lower portion of the tibia, and also the lower and ununited fragment of the fibula. The fragment of the internal malleolus was found dis- placed downward and forward. The bone was sawn through in situ, in the usual manner, with the least possible injury to the soft parts. This was in great part due to the use of the sub- cutaneous saw. The periosteum was preserved and its deeper