127 CONSTANT PATENCY OF THE PYLORUS. greenish contents in which much rice and other food remnants were found. Free HC1 was 60, total acidity SO; benzidin test revealed presence of occult blood. Urine is free from sugar and albumin. The blood showed 5,100,000 red, 8,600 white blood cells, hemoglobin 85%. The diagnosis of pyloric stenosis, probably of a benign nature, and beginning cirrhosis of the liver, was made. The patient was placed on a strictly liquid diet and the stomach t was washed daily in the fasting condition. Medicinally he re- ceived magnesia usta and bismuth subnitrate, and sajodin. The patient felt much better, the vomiting ceased and the pains disappeared; he slept well. Examination with the stomach tube, however, revealed every morning the presence of 200 to 600 cc. of greenish contents, containing plenty of food rem- nants. HC1 and bile were always present; the acidity was be- tween 60 to 80, occult blood was almost constantly found. Occasionally peristaltic restlessness of the stomach could be plainly seen in the upper left epigastric region. On Jan. 2, .1908, two beads, filled with methylene-blue and coated with mutton tallow, were left in the stomach for four and a half hours. The length of the thread of one of the beads was 50 cm., that of the other 75 cm. On withdrawing the beads it was observed that they both contained the methylene- blue and tallow; therefore it was concluded that the distant bead did not pass the pylorus (the bead was too thick to enter the narrow canal). The above treatment being carried out for two weeks without any improvement of the ischochymia, and the patient having lost two pounds in weight, surgical intervention was clearly indicated. On account of the constant presence of bile in the stomach, the diagnosis of a rigid pylorus, being stenosed and at the same time patent, was made. On Jan. 12, 1908, nine p.m., the stomach was washed and no more solids or liquids were given. The next day at 1 p.m. the stomach tube brought up about 300 cc. of dark green con- tents containing gastric juice and bile. Food was not present; the acidity was 60, free HC1 40, no occult blood. About 3 p.m. the patient was operated upon by Dr.Willy Meyer.