THE USE OF UTERINE DILATATION. 72 BY BACHE MC E. EMMET, M.D. Professor of Diseases of Women, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. For a long time past it has struck me that the method of examination of the interior of the uterus by the finger, preceded by full forcible dilatation of the cervix, is not sufficiently in- sisted upon in our teaching of gynecology; nor is it practiced as much as I believe it should be, to establish a diagnosis in all cases Of enlargement of the uterus or suspected internal disease, before resorting to operation; this latter often being ill-chosen because the diagnosis is not positive or is faulty. Further, I wish to make the point that this method may serve for several purposes of treatment, once the nature of the case is fully deter- mined by digital exploration as above indicated. In the earlier days of gynecology, such information as may be gained by the use of the finger within the body of the uterus was much more sought than seems to be the fashion of the present time; yet, such practice was attended by difficulties far greater than we now have to contend with, inasmuch as the means of dilatation were less perfect and more harmful. The strong dilators had not yet made their appearance, so that we were compelled to attain our end by the use of sponge tents, or tupelo; the one positively foul and dangerous, the second equally tedious and painful. Further, the use of either of these required at least twenty-four hours to open the canal suffi- ciently to admit the fore-finger. This entailed the danger of blood-poisoning, in spite of the use of antiseptics, and produced a softening of the tissues conducive to absorption and unfitting them to bear the strain of further dilatation which might be re- quired by a finger larger than the tents, or of instruments which might be used within the body of the uterus. The development of the steel dilators, or, possibly, should I say, their general use, made it evident that they possessed advantages over other means hitherto at hand, even of the gradual packing with sterile gauze; but these advantages seem to have been limited to time and cleanliness and not extended to that of space; its utility was, therefore, largely confined to