147 CORRECTION OF DEFORMITIES. alter the perpendicular line of the leg, so that it falls through the center of a series of deformities to the outer weight bearing part of the foot. An operative method of overcoming deformities following Pott's fracture, should have for its accomplishment a restora- tion of the foot to the perpendicular axis of the leg. The superior surface of the astragalus should rest squarely on the horizontal plane of the tibia. The mortise of the joint should be as perfectly restored as possible, although this cannot always be accomplished, especially in extreme cases; in these, resections are necessary. If we could reproduce the conditions existing directly after the injury and then treat it as a recent fracture, the problem would be solved. This plan, however, will do for recent cases, as there is usually little change in ligamentous and fibrous tissue. This same procedure of operation was set forth by Dr. Irving S. Haynes, of New York, in a paper read October 7, 1891, in which he says: "Restore the limb to the condition it was in at the time of the injury, and then treat it as a recent fracture." In this paper he reports a case of a man 38 years, upon whom he operated 3^- months after the injury, by osteotomy through the fibula and inner malleolus, at the site of fracture. He then was able to overcome the everted position of the foot and reduce the dislocation. The subsequent treatment was the same as after immediate injury, and the result a straight limb, movable joint, and strong ankle. Dr. Haynes reports the same operation on another patient, with deformity of a few weeks standing, with good result. He also suggests a plan to reduce the increased diameter of the ankle, (in certain cases where new tissue fills the gap or space between the bones of the leg); by going in between the tibia and fragment of fibula and re- moving any new tissue that may have formed. The bones then can be approximated in a way to restore a normal mortise. I had occasion to remove -jinch of new bone from between the fibula and tibia, while operating upon a deformity of this kind, which I will mention later. By way of further illustration of suiting the operation to the condition found, I refer to two cases of deformity following a recent Pott's fracture, one in a boy of sixteen years of age, and the other in a woman of middle life, which were operated upon by the late Dr. George F. Shrady. He reproduced the original