SOME MEDICO-LEGAL ASPECTS OF INEBRIETY. 31 recovery in most cases; in other cases a varying grade of alcoholic dementia develops, or a paranoid symptom-complex, and in some cases death terminates the case either from exhaustion or suicide (the latter in from 5 to 10% of the cases). Alcoholic melancholia may arise after acute excesses on the basis of chronic alcoholism, in which the symptoms are a melan- cholic depressed state with self accusations, depressive delusions and hallucinations and symptoms of stupor which usually pass away in a few weeks. Alcoholic hallucinatory paranoia (Wernicke's Acute Hallu- cinosis of the Drinker) is still another type of the subacute alcoholic psychosis, in which there may be ideas of detraction often combined with megalomania; vivid auditory hallucina- tions are especially prevalent, the contents of which may be severe injuries, words of abuse, and threats of severe punish- ment. These delusions develop especially in two directions: either in unwarranted jealousy (that wife is unfaithful, etc.) or religious delusions (called by God to do certain things). The course of this type is sometimes very stormy, with hallucinations of all the senses and violent emotions of apprehension, some- times terminating suddenly in from one to four weeks; or it may continue for from six weeks to several months, while a small pro- portion of the cases go on to incurable chronic paranoia. (3) Chronic alcoholic psychosis comprises those cases gathered from the first two groups that become chronic in character, and many others who, after years of constant drinking, develop mental weakness, lack of energy, limitation of judgment, weakened memory, disturbances of moral feelings and indifference to their own interests, calling, or friends. They become less scrupulous in their transactions and simply exist for the gratification of the passions, engage in immoral acts—begging, stealing, decep- tions, forging checks, etc. These chronic cases may develop either the acute or subacute psychosis, previously described, in the course of their disease, and the final result may be: (a) im- provement under suitable treatment and with proper environ- ment with tendencies to relapse; (b) incurable mental disease, * as alcoholic dementia or paranoia, and (c) death from organic changes which alcohol has provoked (heart, kidney, hepatic diseases, etc.), or by suicide. (4) Dipsomania or periodical maniacal outbreaks, ac-