141 PERITONITIS. character per anum. Such exudate always imparts to the ex- amining finger an elastic feeling, varying in degree with the tensity of its walls. Fluctuation, more or less marked, is in- variably present. ' In two cases I have seen the exudate anterior to the uterus. When the cul-de-sac is obliterated entirely, and the exudate is higher up in the pelvis, the diagnosis becomes very difficult. We can feel the exudate, but cannot always be sure of its nature, because of the uncertain feeling it imparts to the examining finger. The subjective symptoms do not help us to determine the character of the exudate. In the serous, the sero-purulent, and the purely purulent exudate, a slight eleva- tion of temperature may be present. A purulent exudate, as a rule, feels a little doughy and the vaginal mucous membrane imparts a more succulent feeling than in the case of a serous exudate. Only a few days ago I made a mistake in a case which was so instructive from another point of view, that I quote it. The wo- man had had an abdominal section done at other hands; I thought it to be a supravaginal hysterectomy for what I had reason to believe was a small myoma. Sometime after the operation she presented herself to me, complaining of pelvic pain, rectal tene- mus, and obstinate constipation. Examination revealed an exudate in the pelvis, directly behind the cervix. It was smooth at its base and globular in contour. I believed it to be a retro- uterine hematoma following from some oozing after the opera- tion. About two weeks later I again saw the patient, who then complained of an increase in intensity of the previous symptoms. Examination revealed that the exudate had increased very much in size and was distinctly fluctuating, and that its base came almost to the vulva. I diagnosticated that the hematoma had become changed into a pelvic abscess. On the next day I made a vaginal section. About 200 c.c. of serum escaped, and on examining the pelvis Ifound that above the exudate was a hard, indurated mass, which made the impression of a malignant neoplasm. Because of the universally fluctuating sensation on examination, I could make no exact diagnosis with- out knowing that malignant disease was present. While a leucocytosis of 20,000 speaks in favor of pus, this sometimes occurs in instances of serous exudate. A large retro- uterine serous exudate of pelveo-peritonitis may be mistaken for