MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 381 flabby and weak, all the muscles below neck being affected. There is profound lateral curvature and scoliosis; the convexity- being toward left causing marked deformity. Bulging of left chest internally. Joints all prominent. Talipes equino-varus. Cannot stand due to weakness of the trunk muscles. Body somewhat straightened out by support on shoulders. Upper extremities: Atrophy of infra- and supra-spinati mus- cles on right side. Both shoulder girdles enormously atrophied. Atrophy and great weakness of pectorals. Latissimus dorsi well preserved. Subluxation of shoulders. Joint of right hum- erus enlarged. Bones very thin, middle of humerus almost as thin as a pipe-stem. Bones of forearm and the femur are also atrophied. Ribs very large in contrast. Biceps atrophied. Finger joints normal. Thenar and hypothenar wasted. All tendon reflexes absent. Lower extremities: Wasting of gluteal muscles and some tendency to contraction. Hamstrings show partial atrophy and loss of power. Loss of power in the abductors of buttocks. Atrophy equal on both sides. Femora atrophied. Knee-jerks apparently normal. Tibiae normal. Feet: Talipes equino-varus. Tendon reflexes absent. Sensation normal. Face: Loss of expression. Naso-labial fold very indistinct Slight tremor of lids. Pupils react. Eye-lids can scarcely be closed and when closed the slightest pressure suffices to open them. Muscles of neck normal. A symmetrical bulging of left, sinking of right. Scapuli flaring and move on respiration. Heart normal. Lungs: Respiration 20, shallow. On per- cussion, hyperresonance over right anterior. Ptosis of all the vis- cera, mainly to left. Recti abdominis muscles weak. (Fig. 10.) Atrophic Type.—E. B., boy 9 years old, U. S. F. H. Father alcoholic, suffers from asthma, and has had attacks of insanity. Father's sister insane. Mother apparently well. First pregnancy resulted in miscarriage. One child died of unknown cause. Of the six children living three are af- fected with dystrophy, all boys. This patient is the third child. (Fig. 11.) P. H. Born easily. Was a healthy baby. Had measles and scarlet fever three years ago. Began school at age of 6 years. Was bright mentally and made fair advancement.