422 WATER DRINKING IN THE TREATMENT OF CHRONIC CONSTIPATION. BY SAMUEL G. GANT, M.D. LL.D. Professor of Diseases of the Rectum, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. Water consumed at appropriate times in reasonable amounts, and at a suitable temperature does a great deal in preventing and curing constipation. I would rather discontinue the use of drugs in the treatment of costiveness than prohibit water- drinking by this class of sufferers. Medicine will unquestion- ably secure an evacuation more promptly in many instances than will water, but, on the contrary, water will bring about a permanent cure more quickly and do less harm than drugs. Water, being a physiologic agent, facilitates metabolism and helps maintain the body equilibrium; while purgatives act as foreign substances and are not so well tolerated. Water increases the fluids of the body and is carried to remote sections to cleanse the cells and fibres; at the same time it aids in the elimination of waste material and noxious substances. The drinking of water serves to cleanse the interior structure of the body, while bathing does the same for the outer parts. Water is healthful, but persons often drink too much or at too high or too low a temperature. In the treatment of con- stipation, indiscriminate water-drinking should be discoun- tenanced. Consequently, when this therapeutic agent is em- ployed it should be with a definite object in view. Except in special instances, water should never be ingested at a temperature below 50° F.* or above 150° F., because, when frequently taken at these extreme temperatures, positive harm is done to the gastrointestinal mechanism. The copious in- gestion of water—the consumption of from twenty to fifty glasses of water daily by persons who believe the more they drink the better will be the result—must be condemned. It is rarely necessary to drink more than from ten to fifteen glasses of water during the day, and usually from five to six are ample. The effect upon the stomach and intestine is much better when it is taken in small quantity (half a glass) at frequent * Unless otherwise stated, all temperatures Fahienheit.