121 PARTIAL THYROIDECTOMY COMBINED WITH ROENT- GEN TREATMENT IN BASEDOW'S DISEASE. BY CARL BECK, M.D. Professor of Surgery, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, etc. The marvellous results of surgical treatment of tachycardia strumosa exophthalmica, called Basedow's disease, offer convinc- ing proof of the correctness of the theory that the etiologic factor in this mysterious affection is based upon chemical dis- turbance, in other cases upon a pathologic or excessive secretion of the thyroid gland, producing intoxication of the body, especially of the central nervous system. The statistics of Kocher, who performed excision of the thyroid gland in two hundred cases of Basedow's disease, speak more forcibly than any clinical or anatomical observation. There is only one drawback to the operative treatment, namely, the mortality-rate, which, even in the skillful hands of Kocher, yields 4£ per cent., while some of our best surgeons admit as high a rate as 30 per cent. Four years ago I performed thyroidectomy upon a married woman, 48 years of age, at the Post-Graduate Hospital. She complained of palpitation of a most distressing character, tem- porary dyspnea, diarrhea and general exhaustion. There was considerable enlargement of the thyroid gland, while exoph- thalmos on both sides was little marked (Fig. 1). Tachycardia was intense, the pulse varying between 120 and 160. A systolic murmur and tremor of both hands could also be observed. The alarming condition of the pulse forbade the administration of a general anesthetic from the beginning. Therefore, hypoder- matic injection of J gr. of morphine, followed by the infiltration method of Schleich, was employed. A bilateral incision was made around the lower configuration of the tumor, which could be removed with the loss of a moderate amount of blood. A small portion of the right lobe was left. The pulse was 162 pro minute from the outset, while at the end of the operation it had risen to 168, the volume being somewhat weaker. After an hour of continuous stimulation (subcutaneous saline in- fusions and injections of camphorated oil), the patient rallied,