74 THE USE OF UTERINE DILATATION. This point should be heeded, because the possibility of piercing the uterine wall is always present. This injury occurs suffi- ciently often to create alarm even when a curette is used for minor purposes. The organ is readily perforated even in expert hands, and, considering that a uterus becomes so relaxed that its- wall seems to give, before apparently reasonable pressure of the instrument, I always urge caution upon the beginner and instruct him either to follow the curette by carrying a finger up alongside of the uterus, per vaginam, in order to recognize its position, or to grasp the fundus from the outside and so estimate just where he is working, After making a thorough exploration of the interior of the uterus, one appreciates also outlying conditions which may call for present or subsequent attention. One is then prepared to determine upon a line of action. If the dilatation has been well done, it matters little that it proves sufficient to admit a large finger quite freely through the inner os, as no possible harm can follow; indeed, I think it better so than to bore a way through a tight place. Now one may do little, or much, dependent upon the case. I am so confident that, failing to utilize this method, major surgery has frequently been invoked by very competent men, when minor surgery would have sufficed, that I never fail to enjoin upon my students when uncertain of the character of the inside " carry the tip of your finger to the fundus of the uterine cavity." I have known of hysterectomy being performed in case of uncontrollable hemorrhage, when a post-operative inspection revealed a small mass at the fundus, no more than could have been very readily removed by a curette. . I have witnessed a moderate dilatation of the cervical canal, followed by a vigorous curetting which removed granulations of good size, and improved the local condition in so far that persistent bleeding and an abundant mucous discharge was abated (glandular endome- tritis), but, within three weeks a fibrous polypus, the size of a plum, presented at the external " os " demanding removal. It would have been more gratifying to all parties had the operator dilated fully to pass the finger and recognize the true state of things before undertaking to curette. Dilatation to an extreme degree offers us so great a facility