SUBINVOLUTION. 463 in the surrounding tissues. Displacement of the uterus is an important factor. Retained placental structures or retained decidua is another contributory element. An important ele- ment is a poor general circulation. Uterine subinvolution is most frequent in women who do not nurse. Within a few weeks after labor the uterus is large, soft and atonic. The patient has a sensation of weight in the pelvis; there may be profuse serous discharge, there may be irregular bleeding. There is backache and atony of all the pelvic structures. If such a condition is allowed to persist, permanent changes take place. Subinvolution Fibrosis.—Under the peritoneal covering of the uterus is a membrane of elastic fibres. In addition, between this layer and the mucosa there are three other layers of elastic fibres. The elastic and fibrous tissues situated between the muscle bundles send branches between and around every muscle cell at right angles to the long axis of the cell, furnishing a frame work or elastic support which protects the fibres from overstretch- ing, and which permits their return to normal position on con- traction. In pregnancy, the elastic fibres undergo hyperplasia. The same change takes place in the parauterine and peri- uterine elastic fibres. When involution fails to occur and subinvolution persists for a long time then, in addition to sub- involution of the muscle fibres, there occurs a marked increase in the elastic and fibrous connective tissue. There finally re- sults an end-stage, which furnishes an enlarged, hard, brittle uterus associated with which is an inelasticity of the blood vessels. In such a fibrosis there is hyperplasia of the con- nective tissue, the elastic elements are thickened, and there is an increased amount of fibrous connective tissue. In the con- nective tissue around the uterus, in the broad ligaments, in the connective tissue between the bladder and uterus, there are large dilated veins. In the broad ligaments there are plexuses of varicose veins. The tendency to the occurrence of fibrosis is increased by numerous labors occurring in rapid suc- cession; by retroflexion occurring after labor; by inability to nurse, and by the performance of physical labor. As a result of the subinvolution and of the frequent pregnancies, such uteri are hard, enlarged, firm. They grate on cutting. Such uteri have poorly conditioned muscle fibres and are composed of