105 PERNICIOUS ANEMIA. was negative. No leucin or tyrosin crystals were found. When the temperature was at its height there was a trace of albumin and a few hyalin and finely granular casts found. On leaving the hospital the patient's urine was normal. Repeated examina- tions of the sputum showed the absence of tubercle bacilli. Several examinations of the feces failed to discover any parasites. The ova of anchylostoma duodenale and the bothriocephalous latus were especially looked for. A week later the hemoglobin was 50% and the red cells had dropped to 788,000 and the white cells were 7,000. The plate on preceding page is a composite drawing from a preparation of the blood made at this time by Dr. B. F. Cline, of the laboratory. When this blood count was taken the patient was so com- pletely exhausted that death seemed imminent and his relatives were notified to come to the hospital. In addition to daily high enteroclyses of a liter of normal saline, he was given hypodermo- clyses of 300 c.c. of 0.9% saline solution in the pectoral region twice a day for three days. These seemed to cause the turning point in the disease and from this time on he continued to im- prove. The patient's daily diet consisted of three ounces of beef juice, scraped beef sandwiches, bread, cereals, custard, broths, egg-nogs, lemon, albumin-water and, after the first week, a few green vegetables. He was given Fowler's solution, five drops three times a day, the dose being increased one drop daily until the patient was receiving 16 drops three times a day. He was' given also one half an ounce of hemaboloids three times a day, and while he was running a temperature 10 grains of quinin muriate twice a day. He improved very rapidly and on November 28 his hemoglobin had reached 80% and his red cells had risen to one million and a quarter per cubic millimeter. A differential leucocyte count showed 40% of small lymphocytes which is rather characteristic of this disease. The poikilocytosis was just as marked as at the former count and there were a large number of megaloblasts and normoblasts present. He left the hospital on December 19 in fairly good condition although his blood count was practically the same as that of November 28. The treatment was continued after leaving the hospital and a blood examination taken April, 1905, showed marked poikilocytosis and a large number of megaloblasts and