TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 274 corpus luteum and the blood mole. Implantation did not by any means take place within a follicle. The last sentence may be .considered the verdict in this case, namely: ovarian pregnancy is positively excluded. Michaux (Bull, et Memoirs Soc. de Chir. de Par., 1907; n.s., XXXIII, p. 560).—A case of extra-uterine ovarian pregnancy. Michaux exhibited a specimen (removed by laparotomy on that day) to the Surgical Society. This he modestly named extra-uterine preg- nancy. It shows the thickened tube entirely closed at the orifice, and an enlarged ovary from which a mass of yellow fluid escaped at the time of removal. This semi-fluid, yellow mass was about the size of a large raisin and contained a small, pink body which he believed to be an embryo. He does not think he could be mistaken. However, the specimen will be examined microscopically. Without the microscopical report one cannot say whether this is a case of ovarian pregnancy or not. History. The patient, Lillie M., of Bath Beach, L. I., a well-nourished and healthy looking woman of medium size, presented herself at the office on November 21, 1906, and gave the following history: Age, 28 years; occupation, housewife; married eight years; family history unimportant; never had any serious illness or injury. About two years "-^tfef ore marriage she received a blow on the small of the back while in a garden swing, and since that time she has suffered some pain at each menstrual period. First menstruation at 14 years. Since then the periods have recurred every 30 days, except during pregnancy or lactation. When married seven months her uterus was divulsed and curetted for tight os. Two years and three months later she gave birth to a child at term, without artificial aid. The child is living and in good health. While nursing this child, which was then seven months old, she miscarried at three months. Was curetted. In November, 1905, she again miscarried and was once more curetted. This time she was pregnant four months. The last regular menstruation began September, 1906, and lasted the usual time. It was due on October, 12, but failed to appear. Four days later, viz., October 16, she found herself " spotting." This continued for four days, when she got cramps and passed a piece of " flesh " about the size of a hazel-nut. This was on the 2<~>th—eight days after the date on which she missed her