FAULTY METABOLISM AS A CAUSE OF CHRONIC INTER- STITIAL NEPHRITIS. BY FREDERIC E. SONDERN, M.D. Professor of Clinical Pathology, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. At the time when the etiology of chronic interstitial nephritis was quite obscure, the disease was seldom recognized until a well established pathological lesion of the kidney had resulted, and recovery was and is still considered quite impossible when the condition has advanced to this degree. The general belief now exists that the actual pathological lesion of the kidney is invariably preceded by a period of months or years during which clinical investigation will reveal increased arterial tension and abnormal heart action. The urine at this time shows the evidences of a functional albuminuria and not those of a contracting kidney. The etiological factors of these premonitory signs are now considered to be general arterio- sclerosis on the one hand, or some form of faulty metabolism on the other. The development of this usual type of nephritis as a part of a general arteriosclerosis in old persons lends the impression of general senile change. The other general causative element, namely, faulty meta- bolism, has been the subject of much investigation, as the result of which it is to be hoped that chronic interstitial nephritis may be prevented in many instances. In order that this may be brought about, it is necessary that greater attention be given to faults in body chemistry, and that existing ones be remedied not only during a short period of subjective ailment. The necessity for permanent change in habits and mode of life, in order to remedy these faults, is the reason why they are so seldom eliminated. Perusal of the causes of this type of nephritis, quoted by most authors, indi- cates that faulty body chemistry must be the common one, and it also seems reasonable to assume that general arteriosclerosis, at least that occurring prior to advanced age, may also rest on this basis. Diatetic influences, functional disorders of the liver, lithemia, gout, worry and strain of business, overeating and lack of exercise, are but other names for faulty metabolism. As the causative condition quoted would indicate, the fault is