BIOLOGY IN INFANT FEEDING. 112 The great nutritional difference between animals of various species is in the form of the food and manner in which they secure and digest it; not that they require different food ele- ments. Everyone is familiar with most of the gross differences in form of the commoner animals and thoroughly appreciates the reasons for the webbed feet of the water fowls, the hooked beaks of birds of prey and the large canine teeth of dogs and cats. Yet, comparatively few realize that there are as wide differences in the form of the digestive organs of different spe- cies of animals as in their external shapes or appreciate their significance. In selecting food for any animal, the first thing is to see that it is adapted to the animal's digestive apparatus, and then look into its nutritional value. It has also to be borne in mind that animals of the same great class have dif- ferent types of digestive organs which are not equally efficient in digesting the same kinds of food. For instance, it is well known that the horse can not digest ha}' or grass as thoroughly as the cow, because of its relatively small stomach which empties food into the intestines rapidly, while the cow's stomach is large and retains the food longer. Also, that individuals of the same species have wide differences in efficiency of digestion and assimilation. What has been stated thus far is so generally accepted by scientists as not to need further discussion and clearly shows that the great nutritional differences between animals are biological differences. In the earlier stages of development, the young of herbiv- orous, omniverous and carniverous mammals are nourished in the same manner through a chorion and placenta; but when birth takes place, the development and divergence of the diges- tive tracts commence. Then, a wide change in the physical properties of the food is found; in other words, while the mam- mar}'' glands of all species secrete milk that is composed of the five generic divisions of food, viz., proteids, salts, fats, carbo- hydrates and water, the physical properties of these elements are not the same in all milks. The differences in the digestion of food that characterize the herbivera, omnivera and carnivora in adult life have their beginning while the young are still nour- ished by the mother. The young of all of these classes of ani- mals have digestive secretions that produce, as far as is known,