vi day as a boy, and as an older man he always regretted that so many of the wishes therein contained were denied to him. May I quote to you, sir, with slight variations, the concluding lines? " With a courage undaunted may you face your last day, And when you are dead may the better sort say, In the morning when sober, in the evening when mellow, He's gone and hain't left behind him his fellow; For he governed his passions with an absolute sway, Grew wiser and better as his strength wore away, Without gout or the stone, by a gentle decay." The foregoing is a somewhat bare and inadequate account of the career and work of Dr. Roosa. It shows that his life was filled with many honorable achievements, but it does not tell us of that other silent part which a strong and inspiring per- sonality plays in the development and help of forces about him. This is often the best that a man leaves behind: that he has influenced others for good and given opportunities and incent- ive to play a greater and more effective role in life. I do not feel that I am able to present in full and fitting terms a record of this character and its influence. I shall only try to pay here a somewhat informal and personal tribute to his memory, for I knew Dr. Roosa as a friend and physician better, perhaps, than in his other phases. There were, perhaps, particularly warm and kindly feelings between Dr. Roosa and myself, because he was a man of war, and I a man of peace. I admired and also wondered at his broad ambitions, and indomitable confidence which produced results at so much cost to his own heart's blood and personal ease. I felt a keen and genuine joy, which I knew he appre- ciated, to see him succeed in his great cause; against the odds of inexperience, stringent finances, and even personal antagonism. Dr. Roosa was a most militant man, and a pioneer and idealist in his militancy. In earlier days he would have fought the savages and slain them; but he would have then established an institution and laws for them; and fought them again until they obeyed him for their own good. Resourceful, courageous, hopeful during the darker days, he both kept an even mind in adversity, and was wisely serene in success. To me Dr. Roosa always appeared a man of singularly open and re- ceptive mind, despite the tenacity with which he held to his