G2 BLADDER WOUNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. no time exceeding 99+ and the hernial wound healing by absolute primary union. There has been no recurrence of the hernia. Case II.—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 476), January 5, 1899. C. D., large fat man, 58 years of age. Left scrotal hernia larger than adult fist, of 30 years' duration, and not fully re- ducible ; trusses worn found painful and unsuccessful; condition gradually growing worse; repeated attacks of strangulation and inflammation. Operation was performed at the Post-Graduate Hospital, Dr. McAlpin and staff assisting. On opening the canal two distinct sacs were disclosed, one coming down the canal from the inter- nal ring and about three inches in length. When this was separated from the cord and raised up, another sac of direct hernia type was found protruding on the inside of the cord close to the pubic bone. This lower protrusion appeared like a thick mass of fat well supplied by vessels and connecting with the deeper parts by a broad base. Bladder tissue was suspected, and a sound introduced through the urethra passed readily into this diverticulum. After ligating and removing the upper sac, the lower mass was separated from its surrounding with con- siderable difficulty and the canal closed over it by the Bassini method. It was thought that considerable trouble would result from the necessary handling and tearing of tissue, but there was prompt recovery without anything more unfavorable than a slight superficial suppuration. No recurrence five years later. Case III.—Extra-peritoneal (Card No. 496), April 12, 1899. Rev. J. S., a thin man, age 71 years (referred by Dr. L. Bolton Bangs). Double inguinal hernia for many years; the size of a hen's egg on the right and as large as a fist on the left side; truss- wearing painful and hernias not retained; twice strangulated; complained of malignant growth. Operation was performed at the Murray Hill Sanitarium, Dr. George E. Doty assisting. On the left side a large sac, difficult to remove, was found, but without other complications. On opening the canal on the right side a tumor, the size of a small hen's egg, was also found protruding inside of the cord and immediately above the pubic bone. Its neck was rather broader than usual for a hernial sac, and its anterior surface could easily be followed down to the bladder wall. It was easily separated from its adhesions, inverted and buried under the muscular wall