296 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. Behind the large, right-sided, globular tumor a cord-like structure, as thick as the little finger, prevented its delivery from the wound. Otherwise the adhesions on this side were few and only in the lower field of operation. Dividing the large band alluded to—and which passed be- tween the posterior surface of the tumor and the posterior parietal peritoneum—it was possible partially to deliver the tumor. In separating adhesions low down and behind, a rupture of its wall took place at one point which, before it could be caught in a clamp, permitted the escape of possibly a half pint of chocolate-colored liquid without clots into the abdominal cavity. The tumor—still containing about the same quantity of liquid—was rapidly caught at its pedicle with clamps (which were later replaced by ligatures) and cut away. The abdomen was now carefully cleansed with gauze sponges and another inspection of the conditions present was made. The appearance of the left adnexa justified complete extirpation. To leave the uterus might have been feasible, but would have implied (1), either trusting to nature to absorb a rather large quantity of blood in its interior, which might at any time undergo suppura- tion; (2) or incising the uterus, wiping out its contents, and either sewing up the uterine wound or draining it through the abdominal incision; or (3) attempting to reach the cervix and uterine cavity by digging a passage-way, through the occluded vagina. Neither of these plans appealed to me in this individual case, and I reasoned, in addition, that, as the adnexa had under all circumstances to be sacrificed, there was no object in sub- jecting the patient to possible further dangers by the retention of an organ which was now of no use whatsoever. Hence, I proceeded to remove the uterus and opposite adnexa in one mass. Securing the vessels on each side in the customary manner, and dividing the peritoneum anterior and posterior to the uterus, the cervix was dislodged from its surroundings by means of the scissors and found to open into a small, upper rudimentary vagina. The cervix was found distended with blood and as large as the average uterus. The vaginal cul-de-sac, about £ inch in depth, was seen to contain a small quantity of tarry liquid. The same thick, stringy, tarry material oozed out of the cervical and uterine cavities. Cutting the cervix from its sur- roundings, the uterus and left adnexa were removed in one mass.