431 ABDOMINAL RELAXATION. end up. When these cases stand, the lower segment may or may not protrude. If they have been pregnant, there is usually some bulging, but in the nullipara very little if any. This class may be represented by both men or women. These are the cases in which nervous symptoms are usually found. They are most difficult to manage, because they must gain weight before relief will be permanent. The stomach may be found low, and may or may not be dilated. Motor action may or may not be efficient, and the secre- tion may or may not be altered. The intestines are low and the colon may be more or less easily made out. Single or double nephroptosis may be present, with or without adhesions in a low position. Hepatoptosis may be more or less severe. The spleen may be found in the right iliac fossa or in any position between that and its normal position. The uterus may or may not be retroverted or prolapsed. A continual low intra-abdominal pressure in both types is present; in one because of the pull of the pendulous abdominal wall and weakened muscles, and in the other because of insuffi- cient internal abdominal contents—too little fat—insufficient because the skeleton rings (pelvis and costal arch), maintained at a fixed distance by the spinal column, provide a larger intra- abdominal capacity than the contents require. Since it is a closed cavity, there is a constant tendency to create a negative pressure. The etiology, therefore, of the condition can be grouped under the headings: 1. Congenital defects. 2. Pregnancy. 3. Prolonged subnutrition. Under congenital defects should be grouped, probably, all cases found early in life and not dependent upon the action of the other two. Repeated pregnancies at short intervals, before muscle repair is possible, will leave not only the abdominal wall but also the pelvic floor relaxed. Subnutrition may result from unhygienic modes of life will- ingly followed, as among the well-to-do; from close-confining, prolonged labor in factories, as among the working classes.