53 BLADDER WO.UNDS IN HERNIA OPERATIONS. the person of a well-known physician for whom I had the most profound respect. In this one lapse I opened promptly, and without hesitation, what I believed an ordinary hernial sac, but which I found to my extreme mortification was not a hernial sac but the bladder. Dr. B. Farquhar Curtis1 of New York was a pioneer in this country in compiling the cases in the literature of this subject. From the earliest times to the date of this paper (1895), he found 58 cases recorded, and in 41 of them the bladder was wounded during the hernial operation. Only two years after the paper of Curtis, Dr. C. L. Gibson2 tabulated 45 additional cases, which with three exceptions, had been reported in that interval. In 16 of these 45 cases the bladder was injured during operation, and the mortality was 12£%. The increasing importance of the subject is shown from Gibson's paper in which he tabulates 45 cases covering the period 1895-7, while Curtis found only 58 cases in the whole previous literature covering a period of 320 years. From 1897 to 1908 there are recorded some 300 additional cases. Etiology.—The bladder complication of hernia occurs in the sexes in about the same proportion as usually found in the ordinary types. In the 103 cases of Curtis and Gibson just enumerated, 77 were inguinals, and 22 femoral hernias. Of the former 70 occurred .in males and seven in females; and of the latter six were in males and 16 in females. The youngest case on record is that of Adams,7 who reports a bladder complication in an 18 months' old male infant. In my cases I find, however, that fat men over 50 years of age are particularly prone to the bladder complication, as are also those who suffer from recurrent hernia; for the latter the opera- tive procedure of pulling down the peritoneum when tying the sac, is to blame. The top of the bladder is dragged towards the inguinal region and is placed in a favorable position to pro- trude with subsequent hernia. Anatomical Considerations.—On reviewing the anatomical re- lation and position of the bladder in the pelvis, one is not sur- prised that this organ should occasionally protrude as a hernia,, with or without accompanying abdominal viscera. (Fig. 1.) When empty, the bladder lies wholly within the pelvis and the peritoneum covers all portions of its surface, except where