101 THE SIGNIFICANCE OF GASTROINTESTINAL TOXINS IN THE DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF PERNICIOUS ANEMIA. BY LEONARD WEBER, M.D. Professor of Medicine, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. During my service in the Post-Graduate Hospital, November, 1904, a patient came under our care suffering from pernicious anemia, idiopathic, so-called. After persistent entero- and hypodermocylsis with physiological salt solution, careful nutri- tion, etc., etc., in the management of which I enjoyed the able and pains-taking assistance of the house physician, Dr. Arthur F. Chace, the patient recovered. The case was reported by Dr. Chace, at a stated meeting of the Clinical Society of the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital, on December 15, 1905, and published in the Post-Graduate Journal, 1906, No. 1, p. 7. Having had a few more cases of a similar kind since that time in private practice, it is proposed now to review the pathological and therapeutic sides of the subject. All observers are agreed that the disease is more frequent among men than women. Deducting the cases in which pregnancy, parturition, atrophy of the stomach or parasites were the prominent etiological factors, there remains a large proportion of cases in the series reported by different authors, in which the etiology of progressive blood destruction or abnormal blood production remains quite un- certain. The lemon tint of the skin in genuine cases, which in our first case was well marked; the finding of a large increase of iron in the liver by Ouinke and Peters—never present in second- ary anemia; the presence of urobilin in the urine, make it, indeed, quite probable that the affection is due in many cases to in- creased hemolysis. While some authors have held the opinion that the essence of the disease lies in defective hematogenesis, another view has been advanced in recent years by William Hunter, Grawitz, and others, to the effect that it is more often an infectious disease brought about by hemolytic toxins arising in the alimentary canal or in the oral cavity through a more or less septic state of the latter.