368 MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. found in the myopathies is found also after a spinal lesion, it should be disregarded. Those who have reported changes fail to agree as to the con- stancy of these changes. Babes found the motor-end plates undeveloped. Strumpell, and Sachs a,.A Brooks reported a case in which there was shrinkage of the cells in the dorsal ganglia. In our two cases that came to autopsy, no changes in the central nervous system were found. A considerable number of cases have been reported in which there were pathological alterations in the anterior horn cells of the spinal cord1 consisting in diminution of the number of cells, altera- tion in the size and shape of the cells, and change in the constitution of the cell bodies. These changes are to be inter- preted as secondary to the primary muscle disease. Why they occur in some cases and not in others has not been satisfactorily explained. They are not unlike the changes that occur in the anterior horn cells after amputation of an extremity. The real lesion is in the muscles themselves. Here one sees hypertrophy and atrophy of the muscle fibres going on hand in hand. Together with this there is increase in the inter- stitial connective tissue with a large deposit of fat. Much controversy still exists as to whether or not the disease begins primarily in the connective-tissue or in the muscle-fibre proper. Duchenne, Charcot, Sachs and Brooks, Berger, and others found a proliferation of fat and connective-tissue followed subse- quently by atrophy of the muscle fibres. Berger excised a piece of calf muscle in a boy suffering from typical symptoms of pseudohypertrophy. Microscopical examination showed an increase of connective-tissue. A few years later, post mortem examination of the same case showed that this connective- tissue had changed into fat. Erb and Lorenz, on the other hand, found degeneration of muscle fibres preceding the proliferation of fat and connective-tissue. This divergence of opinion is ap- parently due to a variety of changes produced in this disease. In general, it maybe said that asfar.asthe pathological anatomy is concerned, the changes in the muscles may be classified under 1. Erb and Schultze, Archiv. f. Psychiatrie, Vol. 9; Kahler, Zeitschr. f. Heilkunde, 1884; Strumpell, Deutsche Zeitschrift f. Neroenheilk, Vol. Ill; Kollarits, Deutsches Archiv. f. klin. Med., Vol. LXX; Ingbert, Journal of Nervous and Mental Disease. Vol, XXXIV; Holmes, Review of Neurology and Psychiatry, Vol. VI, et al.