TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. 255 upper border of the sac, and its fimbriated end, while in the wall of the sac, does not communicate with the interior of the sac. The right round ligament is easily discernible, The left ovary, round ligament and tube are fairly normal. This case, although looked upon by some authors as an ovarian pregnancy, cannot sustain its claim to that title if viewed in the light of our present knowledge. In the first place, here is a sac of large size, containing a quantity of foul-smelling pus and some small bones of a fetus. There is no evidence brought forward that this is really an ovarian sac, except the bald state- ment that the ovary on that side was not seen. It is not un- likely that the ovary was there, but so covered by the adhesions of a general peritonitis that it escaped notice. Such cases are on record. There was no microscopical proof adduced that ovarian tissue, or something even remotely suggesting ovarian stroma, was seen in any part of the sac. It might be objected that after a pregnancy had lasted three and one-half years and the products of conception had become purulent, ovarian struc- ture could hardly be expected to be demonstrable. Allowing this objection to stand for the sake of argument, one goes a step further and is confronted by the fact, that the sac is not con- nected to the uterus by the ovarian ligament. This is one of the cardinal signs and cannot be ignored. Upon this alone, absence of ovarian pregnancy may be positively asserted. There is one more point which ought to receive some attention. The Fallo- pian tube on the affected side runs along the sac wall and its fimbriated end is lost in the sac. That fact of itself is, according to the best authorities, sufficient to annul any claim to the title of ovarian pregnancy; it also proves the charge made that if authors would take the trouble to investigate each case instead of (as sometimes happens) merely copying the opinions of pre- vious writers, mistakes of this nature would not be perpetuated. Landau. Leopold (1879).—A woman aged 36 years. Twelve years before she bore a child. Since then she had a miscarriage at three months. Twelve months after the last menstrual period she had severe abdominal pains and gave evidence of peritonitis. The author diagnosticated ab- dominal pregnancy. At the laparotomy a fully developed dead child was extracted. The placenta was not removed, but sewn into the wound. Except that she had slight fever, some suppuration and several attacks of secondary hemorrhage from the site of the placenta, the patient did fairly well for five weeks after the operation. She finally died of pulmonary edema.