186 UNRESOLVED PNEUMONIA. as possible the pleural opening is enlarged to its full extent and the finger seeks out the location of the collapsed lung. Sometimes it is found in the apex of the cavity, contracted down like a rubber ball; at other times it spreads out along the back, firmly adherent to the posterior wall and to the diaphragm and pericardium, so that it is a thin, ribbon-like structure. At first sight it seems impossible to obtain any improvement in such an organ; but, feeling the way carefully, the finger sepa- rates the adhesions, keeping as close to the parietal pleura as possible during the manipulations. If the empyema is recent, the adhesions break just as readily as about the appendix in a recent case of appendicitis; if it is old, it may be very difficult to separate them and at times almost impossible to recognize the line of cleavage between the diaphragm and the lung. During the course of this first exploratory exam- ination, the coagulated lymph will be loosened from its at- tachments and can be drawn out of the cavity; if it is not readily disposed of, hot normal saline should be poured from a pitcher into the pleura until all of these coagula have been washed away, in order that they may not interfere with the sense of touch or with the \Tiew of the expanding lung as it begins to come forward. If still large masses adhere, they should be scraped away with a sharp curette. If the adhesions are so firm that they cannot be broken with the finger, they should be cut with a pair of curved scissors as close to the parietal surface as possible. It is true that in this separation of the adhesions we frequently tear into the lung tissue itself and sometimes even into a bronchus. One need have no fear of complications in case this accident occurs, as the hemorrhage is usually very slight and stops quickly when the cavity is irri- gated; or, if one is not certain about how much bleeding is coming from the tear, the anesthetist may reapply his ether and bring the patient again under complete anesthesia, when the lung will again collapse and the operator can examine the size of the laceration of the lung tissue. In case there is any bleed- ing formidable enough to require control, the spot may be touched with the Paquelin cautery, or a purse-string stitch may be passed around and tied. When this is done, the anes- thetic should be again withdrawn and the breaking of the adhesions continued. If the adhesions are very extensive, it