NEURITIS AND ITS RELATION TO INTESTINAL PUTRE- FACTIVE PROCESSES. BY GRAEME M. HAMMOND, M.D. Professor of Diseases of the Mind and Nervous System, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. The more the putrefactive processes concerned in intestinal digestion are studied, the more we see its influence on diseases of the nervous system. We are beginning to believe that in many instances in which the etiology of some nervous affections has not been thoroughly understood, but which we believe to be toxic, can be directly traced to toxins which result from putrefaction of undigested material in the intestine. It is the purpose of this article to show the relation of this process to neuritis, and to discuss the treatment best adapted for its relief. I do not purpose to review the work of the many investigators in this line, and the number is becoming greater every day, but to detail my own expeiience with a number of cases of neuritis, leaving the discussion of the relation of putre- factive toxins and the general nervous system to another occa- sion. The following cases have been carefully studied and the evidence of putrefacti\re toxins as a causative factor has been clearly made out. In the ten cases which I purpose to report, the neuritis was confined to a single extremity in six cases; to more than one ex- tremity in three cases; and appeared as a severe multiple neu- ritis in one case. Case I.—The patient, a man 45 years of age, had been en- gaged in hard physical and mental work for many years. He was moderate in the use of alcohol and tobacco. He never had any diseases at all, being a man of remarkable health and physical strength. He had been a very hearty crater for years. He had never had rheumatism nor any venereal disease. About a year ago he began to experience pain and weakness in the right hand. These symptoms gradually extended to the fore- arm, the arm and shoulder until the member was nearly para- lyzed and exceedingly painful. There was tenderness of the nerve trunks, diminished reflexes, and a moderate degree of