SUBINVOLUTION. 4G4 much fibrous connective tissue and of numerous elastic fibres, poor in contractile power. This uterine alteration of itself, however, is purely a local phenomenon, and causes very fre- quently toward the age of the normal climacterium a lack of contractile power in the uterus, with or without arteriosclerosis of the vessels, which results in profuse bleedings, for which, often enough, only a hysterectomy can be of any aid. Inflammatory Metritis.—In contra-distinction to such a simple subinvolution fibrosis, the uterus may be thickened, hyper- trophied, sclerotic or enlarged as a result of chronic inflammatory changes in the uterine lining and uterine wall. We are then dealing with an inflammatory end-stage of a real inflammatory metritis. As a rule, the distinction is not made between such alterations due to inflammation and similar changes due to failure of involution on the part of a uterus. The latter is generally considered under the heading of metritis. If the term metritis is to be used for inflammatory cases, then the end-stage of subinvolution should be called non-inflammatory metritis or fibrosis uteri. Pelvic Subinvolution.—Subinvolution of the uterus itself is often only of secondary importance. Of far greater significance is the condition, size and elasticity of the ligaments about the uterus. These ligaments filled with elastic connective tissue and muscle fibres are responsible in a very great measure for retaining the uterus in its normal position. The elastic fibres and the connective tissue about the vagina, bladder, etc., are of great importance in retaining these two organs in their normal situation. There occurs very frequently after one or more labors failure on the part of these ligaments to return to their normal elastic condition. They remain elongated, inelastic, flabby, re- sulting in descent of the uterus, retroversion and retroflexion, de- scent of the posterior wall of the vagina, descent of the vagina, etc. Of great importance in this connection is the condition of the levator ani muscles and of the muscles in the perineum. Much has been said of the effect of perineal laceration in the production of cystocele and descent of the uterus. It is a fact that even a deep median laceration of the perineum which does not tear the insertion of the levator ani fibres, is not productive per se of descent of the vagina. That with lateral laceration such conditions do occur, can be readily understood, when we