110 BIOLOGY IN INFANT FEEDING. foods and methods of feeding which have been more or less successfully employed and advocated, and also for the belief held by some that there is no science in artificial infant feeding, each infant being a law unto itself. The only principles which can be universally accepted are those that apply to all infants, no matter what their environ- ment may be, and it will greatly advance the cause of scientific infant nutrition if the fundamental facts on which these prin- ciples are based and the principles themselves can be clearly enunciated and accepted. The application of these principles will have to be made according to conditions as they are found and will constitute the art of infant feeding. In the applica- tion of the fundamental principles, each pediatrist will have perfect freedom; yet the same scientific principles will be recog- nized and applied systematically all over the world and re- sults can then be compared intelligently. With the funda- mentals removed from the field of discussion, valuable lessons can be learned from comparing the results of the different methods of applying the basic principles, and real progress will be made. As it is to-day, many comparisons of methods of feeding are misleading and unreliable, because, in numerous instances, different principles are being applied and all of the factors involved are not taken into consideration. It will be helpful to see how much can be taken from the realm of discussion and just what points lie within its domain. It is self-evident that the infant belongs to the animal king- dom and, therefore, is subject to all the general laws of animal life. Now, it has been determined that all animals begin their existence as a single cell, which passes through various forms of increasing complexity to reach the adult state. There are no sudden breaks in the process of development. It is contin- uous. In the early periods of growth all higher animals are so much alike in form as to be indistinguishable, and it is only when development has proceeded to a marked extent that, specific differences appear. The food of all animals is derived primarily from the vege- table kingdom. Some animals are exclusively vegetable feed- ers, others subsist on vegetable and animal food, while still others are strictly flesh eaters. Hence, the natural division of the animal kingdom into the herbivera, omnivora and carnivora.