294 REPORT OF A CASE OF ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA, HEMATOSALPINX AND HEMAT- OVARIUM. Including a Resume of the Literature of the Blood- Retention Tumors, Published During the Past Twenty Years. by abram brothers, b.s., m.d. Adjunct-Professor of Gynecology, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. On Nov. 26, 1907, Dr. H. Lewinsohn invited me to examine Miss L. A., who gave the following history. Although 21 years old, she had never menstruated. Since she was 17 years old she had been troubled with a dull pain in the lower abdominal region. Every four weeks the abdominal pain became quite severe and sharp in character during five days. Her last menstrual crisis was rather less painful than usual. For some time past she had noticed a gradual enlargement of her abdomen. There was nothing of importance which could be elicited in her pre- vious history or in that of her family. The girl presented a fairly well nourished appearance, although anemic. The breasts were well developed, but there seemed to be an increased growth of hair on the body and limbs. Inspec- tion of the abdomen showed a protrusion which, on palpation, could be clearly mapped out as filling up the entire right side and extending half way over to the left. Its upper margin extended well up above the umbilical region and presented a marked sulcus just about the navel. The tumor gave a sense of fluctua- tion, on manipulation, and a flat note on percussion. Locally, the external genitals presented fairly normal appearances. The mons veneris and labia majora were perfectly normal. The clitoris was small and its prepuce passed on continuously into the labia minora which, however, seemed to extend downward only a short distance. The entire interlabial space was occupied by a longitudinal slit, about \ inch long, which was recognized as the urethral orifice. Below this a small fraction of an inch of dense reddish tissue was continuous with the perineal skin beyond. There was nothing to suggest the presence of a hymen