278 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. and the sincytial layer—the lumen showing branched connective tissue cells that resembled myxomatous tissue. In some sections this picture of blood clot perforated by villi dominated the whole field and only around the edges could ovarian tissue be found on close inspection. Sections of the central portion showed a rounded cavity which had contained the embryo. The cavity was lined all around its inner margin with a narrow strip of tissue consisting of two rows of cells of chorionic origin. This cavity could not be demonstrated in any part to communicate with the surface of the ovary but, on the contrary, at the place where it was peripheral there was a bridge of tissue from 3 to 5 mm. thick between it and the surface of the organ. This proved the cavity to be situated well within the ovary, and not an artefact in the sense that it was originally formed upon the surface. That true and definite ovarian tissue comprised the zones border- ing this cavity, in places where blood infiltration did not obscure the picture, the following elements of normal ovarian parenchyma demonstrated: 1. Arterial and venous capillaries, some with and some with- out blood within the lumena. 2. Whorls and eddies of spindle-shaped cells arranged con- centrically around blood spaces and sometimes independent of these. 3. A corpus albicans. 4. Graafian follicles of various sizes. 5. Towards the hilum, thick-walled, cork-screw-shaped vessels which are usually found in this region. 6. Condensation of the cortical tissues near the surface, erroneously called tunica albuginea, was quite apparent. Clusters of round cells were found occasionally, and also some large wandering cells so frequently seen on microscopical examination of the pregnant uterus. The fetus was sectioned sagitally and shows umbilical cord with the lumina of two vessels in it. It is attached organically by this cord to the cavity within the ovary. Chorionic villi are seen eating their way into the ovarian tissue. Summary. Briefly, the reasons given by the writer of this paper for be- lieving his case to be one of true primary ovarian pregnancy are as follows: