436 CICATRICIAL STRICTURE OF THE ESOPHAGUS. food, and after a few weeks it got so that I had to live on fluids, and at times even fluids would not go down." In the latter part of August this patient came to my clinic at the Post-Graduate Hospital, giving the above history. Several unsuccessful attempts were made with various-sized instruments to pass the stricture, which was located nine inches from the teeth. Finally, a small flexible bougie was introduced, and after a number of days of treatment, a No. 2G instrument could be passed. Following an attempt at divulsion with a metal esophageal divulsor, the patient developed a cellulitis of the neck, and for several days his condition was serious. Fortunately, no ill effects resulted, but the lesson was taken to heart and the divulsion was abandoned. Later the patient went away from the city and for a time was lost sight of. When he returned he was greatly emaciated and unable to swallow water, except a spoonful at a time, and this amount very slowly. All attempts to pass instruments failed. Even filiform bougies could not be introduced. The patient attempted to swallow a perforated No. 4 shot with a thread attached, but without success. Dunham has demonstrated that when a patient can swallow water, a thread can be washed through the stricture. This fact was taken advantage of, and a thread was washed' through the stricture into the stomach of the patient. A temporary gastros- tomy was performed, the end of the thread fished out, and to it was attached a strong fish line which was drawn up through the esophagus out of the mouth. With this guide it was easy to draw tip wire spindle bougies and, as long as there was no marked resistance, gradually to dilate the stricture. Later, with a full sized instrument in place, an internal esophagotomy was done, using the Abbe string method to chafe through the stricture. Systematic dilatation was kept up, covering a period of several weeks, until a No. 42 flexible bougie could be passed. The patient rapidly regained his strength and increased about fifty pounds in weight. He was taught to introduce the bougie and instructed to pass it once or twice a month. He has been kept under observation now for nearly three years and there has been no recurrence of the stricture. General remarks.—While esophageal stricture is a compara- tively rare condition, it has been my good fortune personally to treat eight cases, as follows: One case of compression stenosis,