253 TRUE PRIMARY OVARIAN PREGNANCY. Menstruation did not occur again. She suffered repeatedly from ab- , dominal cramps. The following May the author saw her and made out a rounded mass in the pelvis. In August a fetus could be distinctly outlined in the abdomen. Two months before that time she felt fetal movements. A diagnosis of extra-uterine pregnancy was made. On the 12th of October peritonitis developed, which caused her death two weeks later. The autopsy showed signs of general peritonitis. The child was well developed and weighed six lbs. The placenta appeared to be enclosed in the right ovary, which was greatly enlarged. The right ovarian ligament was twice its normal size. The uterus and left adnexa were practically normal. The right tube and fimbriated ex- tremity were quite normal and non-adherent. The oval mass, which was taken for the right ovary, contained a large amount of placental tissue. However, in no part of the supposed ovary was ovarian tissue demonstrab e. A proper critique of this case, which is remarkable in many ways, would take up too much space. Therefore, the question of the discrepancy of dates cannot be gone into, for instance: If on the 31st day of August, 1857, fruitful intercourse was had, a rounded mass would be felt in the pelvis long before the follow- ing May—almost nine months later. Likewise, the first fetal movements were felt one month later, namely, about 10 months after the supposedly successful coitus. In August, 1858, or one year later, the fetus could be distinctly outlined and the diagnosis of extrauterine pregnancy made. The one important point in this case is the fact that, although an expert examined the specimen, he had to admit that in no part of the supposed ovary could even a faint trace of ovarian substance be demonstrated. It is unfortunate that a snow storm of such severity as to have been the cause of upsetting the wagon in which the lady rode, should have occurred in August. While it might be pos- sible to convince one that heavy snow storms occur in August, it is asking too much of anyone to accept this case as an ovarian pregnancy. Wiedersperg (1865).—Patient 34 years old. Last menses four months before death. The most prominent fact appears to be that the Fallopian tube on the affected side ended blindly in and was lost within the gestation sac. The case is, therefore, not one of ovarian pregnancy, but probably tubal or tubo-ovarian. Horwitz (1868).—Woman, 35 years old, who had four children, died in the fourth month of her fifth pregnancy.