448 EXCESSIVE GASTRIC SECRETION. of hydrochloric acid which passes the pylorus will influence the mode in which the stomach empties itself of its contents. Thus, the acidity in the stomach may become the factor which, under certain conditions, increases its own amount by disturbing the normal pyloric rythm. Summing up, the following can be said: The acidity of the gastric juice varies between 100-150. The gastric juice maintains this acidity, but it is very variable with regard to quantity. There is no such thing as hyperchlorhydria in the sense that the juice itself becomes abnormally acid. An increased acidity of the stomach's contents occurs and may reach the height of the acidity of the undiluted gastric juice, but not higher. Increased acidity is due to hypersecretion, which means an increased quantity of juice, or is due to modified motility of the stomach, or to both factors. It will be necessary to take these experimentally established facts as a basis for revision of our clinical conceptions. We will have to determine the part which impaired or increased motility and the part which increased secretion play in producing high acidity. I mentioned above that there are two factors which regulate secretion: a psychic factor, and the presence of certain food-stuffs in the stomach. I also ventured the probability that the latter factor will have to be taken into consideration as an etiologic cause of increased flow of gastric juice. The remarkable dis- coveries of Starling and Edkins have proven that this part of gastric secretion is stimulated by certain chemical bodies of specific nature. They call them hormones—(messengers). These harmones are formed in the mucus membrane-of the pylorus and duodenum and stimulate secretion after circulating in the blood. From this point of view, it might be possible to explain why the local affections of the pylorus and duodenum are so prone to induce hypersecretion. Many forms of excessive acidity which to-day are called neurosis, will possibly be explained as the effects of abnormal formation of hormones. This would mean that it becomes a problem of internal secretion instead of a " neurosis,"—a frequent excuse for lack of knowledge.