ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. 297 The amount of bleeding from the operation—which presented considerable technical difficulties and consumed nearly an hour and a half in its performance—was nil. The question of con- structing a new vagina with the rudimentary upper portion serv- ing as a guide was dismissed, as I feared the effect of prolonging the operation unnecessarily. The edges of the vaginal stump were now inverted—after wiping its cavity thoroughly dry— and sutured to each other, and over this the peritoneum was sewed. After making sure that the peritoneal cavity was thor- oughly cleaned with dry sponges, the abdominal wound was closed in three layers without drainage. There was no re- action and, at the end of a week, the patient was sitting out of bed. Several months later her physician reported to me that she was perfectly well. The specimens, which were presented at the February meeting of the New York Obstetrical Society, have shrunken so much since the operation that it requires a stretch of the imagination to recognize them. Briefly described, they consist of a thick- walled uterus and cervix to" which a fraction of vagina is attached below like a cuff. The right tube is pervious at its uterine end. The ovary on the right side is one large, globular mono-cyst, the dimensions of which had shrunken, probably, by at least one-half at the time the photograph was taken. The posterior aspect of the right tube shows a very thin wall—as though rupture might have occurred at any moment. The left tube, in the posterior view, is seen to end in a club-shaped dilatation which was fused to the left hematovarium. The left ovary—which like its tube— is a single sac filled with blood, shows numerous adhesions on its posterior aspect. The left tube embraces the corresponding ovary from below upwards for a distance of two-thirds of its circumference. The points of interest in the case are the following: (1) the absence of nearly the entire vagina with normally developed functionating uterus and appendages; (2) the accumulation of blood during a period of four years in the rudimentary vagina, cervix, uterus, tubes and ovaries without rupture; (3) the mono- cystic hematovarium, which, I believe, is the largest one on record. Let us consider each of these subjects in turn. According to Dohrn, the union of the Mullerian ducts in the human embryo is completed by the ninth week, but the differen-