MASTOIDEOTYMPANOTOMY: THE OPERATION OF ELECTION FOR PERSISTENT OTORRHEA AND ACUTE MASTOIDEO-TYMPANIC OSTITIS. BY W. SOHIER BRYANT, M.D. Adjunct Professor of Diseases of the Ear, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. A form of mastoid operation, which I have called mastoideo- tympanotomy, has given me most satisfactory results in those cases in which otorrhea is persistent and in acute ostitis with in- volvement of the tympanic walls. I wish to advocate this technique in preference to any other, because it fulfils more com- pletely the requirements for a greater number of cases. In all but the rare instances of extensive tympanic caries, our operation is able to entirely relieve the pathological condition. In the writer's experience, tympanic caries sufficiently extensive to counter indicate mastoideotympanotomy is found only in a frac- tion of 1% of all cases seeking, through a mastoid operation, a cure of the above conditions. The advantages of the author's operation are threefold. It is not very extensive; it does not jeopardize the life of the patient; it does not require close curettage of the outer wall of the laby- rinth. This curettage sometimes appears to cause infection of the labyrinth and to give rise to serious intracranial complications in the Schwartze-Stake operation. Our operation, on the other hand, is of comparatively short duration and not only retains as much sound conducting function of the tympanic contents as still remains at the time of operation, but even in most cases markedly increases the auditory capacity. The disadvantages of our operation are that it is not applicable to every single case without exception, as we have previously noted, and that it re- quires careful bone dissection. According to our technique, the operator makes any of the usual aural incisions and removes as much bone from the mastoid process and cells as his judgment deems necessary in the in- dividual case. The author thinks it is wise to be conservative and take no risks by leaving bone which may later interfere with the repair of the wound. The posterior wall of the external osseous auditory canal is