237 THE POST-GRADUATE STUDENT. men in a wider and more active field, from whom he hopes to re- ceive inspiration. The problem how to instruct a class of such men is, indeed, a difficult one, owing to the wide variations in their men- tality, personal experience and general qualifications. Some have finished their college life and take the post-graduate course as a substitute for hospital training. These minds are young, bright, and filled with theory. Others are staid and venerable practitioners, who have been removed from the college environment long enough to forget most of their technical knowledge. They have acquired a mass of experience the value of which has never been fully utilized, because they have been isolated from medical centres and almost entirely dependent upon their own resources. Such men are hungry for definite informa- tion; have clear ideas of what they wish to gain, and, having obtained it, are in position to use it at once and to advantage. Another student in the same class will represent the un- successful man. He has tried this and that and failed in all. He has been farmer, storekeeper, justice, and finally selects medicine as a field in which he hopes to find success. He has wasted his energies and lost his ideals. All his views are tinged with commercialism. Next to him sits a man who has used all his opportunities. He is educated in the special line in which he seeks additional knowledge, and is often as well equipped as the man from whom instruction is sought. This one is simply broadening his field of observation. With a mixed class of this kind, it is almost impossible for the instructor to present his subject in such a manner as to interest and hold the attention of all. Therefore, the primary essentials of post-graduate teaching are small classes and the close and personal contact of pupil and instructor. The importance of teaching in small classes has been realized by the undergraduate medical schools and by most of the Universities. Most classes are now split into smaller bodies which come directly under the personal supervision of the instructor or professor. Especially is this true in Princeton University, where a plan is being developed which brings each student in close contact with a tutor, and every possible stim- ulus is given to original thought and work. This need of per- sonal instruction and influence in post-graduate work cannot