44 FIBROID DEGENERATION OF THE APPENDIX. The diagnosis of fibroid degeneration of the appendix can usually be made without much difficulty. First, by palpation. If one has acquired a good method for palpation of the appendix, he will have little difficulty in finding these fibroid appendices as a rule. The appendix feels distinctly harder than normal as it slips out from beneath the examining fingers. Tenderness of the appendix may not be a very marked feature, and it is rather less in degree than one expects to find in connection with the history of discomfort, pain or reflex disturbances. The chief diagnostic point in these cases is a very definite one, if taken in connection with accurate palpation of the appendix. The chief diagnostic point consists in finding a point of tenderness at the site of the right lumbar ganglia. For practical purposes one can find this spot by pressing upon the abdominal wall at a point about an inch and a half to the right of the navel, carrying the fingers well down toward the right side of the spinal column. If we find hyperesthesia at the site of the right lumbar ganglia alone, we can assume that the appendix is responsible for this irritation. If, however, the left lumbar ganglia are equally sensitive with the right lumbar ganglia, we must look to the pelvis for the source of the irrita- tion. If neither right nor left lumbar ganglia are hypersensitive, we must look to some part of the abdomen cephelad from the level of the navel. It is when the right lumbar ganglia alone are sensitive that we are to look to the appendix as the single cause for disturbance, as a rule. In calling attention to the importance of the inflammation which accompanies fibroid degeneration of the appendix, I purposely leave out descriptions of the. other types of appen- dicitis, excepting to state briefly their nature. Class 2.—Infective appendicitis I believe to be due to in- vasion of anemic areas in the appendix by bowel bacteria, the anemia usually being a compression anemia, and caused by swell- ing of the inner structures of the appendix, within a tight outer sheath. The cause for the swelling, whether due to extension of a colitis, the presence of a concretion, or any common cause, I hold to be of small consequence so long as tissues rapidly swell to the point where they suffer compression anemia, with consequent loss of protection from phagocytes. Class 3.—Congestive appendicitis seems to be a benign con-