210 THE ETIOLOGY OF EYE-STRAIN. mology, and, in my experience since that time, they hold as good to-day as three decades ago. In presenting the above state- ments of the correct vision and motility, it must be understood that in some cases we may have eye-strain with the most perfect, vision, and it has been suggested, as an axiom, that "the better the vision, the more the reflex troubles." While I doubt this, yet we do find that many slight errors of refraction are the prime cause of certain reflex symptoms. It is doubtful if any line of treat- ment will be successful if these cases are due to a refractive error,, or to a muscular imbalance. These people must submit to a careful scientific examination of the eyes for the correction of the existing abnormality by glasses, or such other methods as may seem necessary. This examination is essential so that we may eliminate eye-strain as the cause of certain other reflex symptoms. But even accepting the proposition that eye-strain may be the cause of the symptoms, yet, with their accurately fitted glasses, even under a midriatic, such persons will still feel the strain on the accommodation with pain about the eyes. If so^ then we may find indicated certain general tonics, as restricting the use of the eyes, outdoor exercise, and, as a local application, I have found very useful a solution of Eserine sulphate, 1/40 gr. to the ounce, one drop in each eye three times a day. This drug has a tendency to stimulate the ciliary muscle to action, and so lessen the strain on the accommodation in reading. The use of Eserine as a ciliary tonic was suggested by the late Dr. C. R. Agnew at the time he was surgeon of the Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospi- tal, and it has been of much service to me in many cases of eye strain after the full correction of the refractive and the muscular errors. Furthermore, as regards any internal treatment in these cases of eye-strain that may be due to any muscular imbalance, Seguin, in 1892, published a very interesting article in the New York Medical Journal on eye-strain, particularly in reference to an original weakness of the nerves of adduction and abduction, in other words, any lateral muscular imbalance. In his final conclusions as to treatment in cases where the symptoms are in- creased by an act of accommodation and by convergence, or, we may say, where there is a tendency for the eyes to roll out- ward when at rest, exophoria, Seguin recommends the use of nux vomica or strychnia, and claims they are sometimes cured by a course of this drug. Furthermore, he says, if we find the