304 ATRESIA OF THE VAGINA WITH HEMATOMETRA. Without attempting to re-hash in detail the writings of Breisky, Nettgebauer, Wagner, Rose, Puech and an army of indefatigable workers, I purpose mainly to take up the subject at the point where Fuld stopped and see what has been accomplished since his time. From 1888 to the beginning of the present year, 1908, I have been able to collect 164 cases of blood-retention associated with gynatresia as follows: I. Primary Blood Retentions: (a) single genital canal 80 cases; (b) double genital canal 65 cases; II. Secondary Blood Retentions 19 cases; Total , . . . 164 cases. Spontaneous rupture or evacuation of primary blood-reten- tion tumors with successful outcome has been known to take place externally through the obliterated area, or into the bladder or rectum, or through the septum of a double uterus. Fuld's paper refers to three such cases. My own researches have discovered seven more in primary blood-retentions and one in secondary blood retention [3, 10, 13, 29, 40, 44, 72, 164].* Most (possibly all) of these cases were not associated with hema- tosalpinx and presented an atresia of the hymen or lower end of the genital tube. During the past 20 years there have been no cases reported, to my knowledge, of spontaneous rupture of a hematosalpinx with fatal peritonitis. Interventions for hematocolpos or hematometra in the single genital canal {leaving a possible hematosalpinx to chance.) Ac- cording to Puech (Neugebauer), Felix Plater, on September 12, 1594, was the first to propose section of a vaginal atresia, but Roonhuysen was the first to do it. Dupuytren and Amussat, in the early part of the 19th century, established the operation of blunt dissection on a scientific basis, and this is the method still followed, with slight modifications, at the present day. Puech (loc. cit.) collected 66 cases of section of a vaginal atresia with four relapses. Of 28 cases of congenital atresia, there were two recurrences, two unfinished operations and of the 24 remaining cases, two deaths. In 300 cases of vaginal or cervical * The numbers in brackets refer to the tabulated cases at the end of this paper.