SUBINVOLUTION. 46S These conditions of abdominal and constitutional subinvolution explain, in many cases, the relation so long, and even still, held to exist through reflex channels between cervical lacerations, cervical erosions, cervical catarrh, uterine catarrh, and es- pecially uterine retroversions and flexions on the other hand, and certain nervous phenomena, on the other. In many in- stances the nervous condition is due to alterations in the ovary produced by tubo-ovarian, ovarian and peritoneal complica- tions, which complications are generally the result of an upward extension of a cervical infection. These ovarian lesions may be simply that mild infection of the follicles which leads to the formation of socalled " cystic ovaries." The ovarian changes may be sclerotic in their character, resulting from mild tubal and peritoneal infecting lesions. The inflammatory changes in the ovary may be chronic in form, producing alterations not always easily classified but interfering with the secretory work of these glands. Aside from inflammation, congestion and improper circulation may interfere with the proper function of the ovaries. Hence, pelvic and abdominal subinvolution may cause such functional ovarian changes as are symptomless, so far as pain or marked pain is concerned. Even changes in the menstrual regularity or in the menstrual amount, may be slight or absent, through changes from normal are often present. The important end-effect is interference with the proper secretory function of the ovaries. Hyperthyroidism.—Hence we are often concerned with the care of patients who have grown nervous since child-birth. Of course, among such instances are nervous conditions due to various other causes and .tendencies. A certain proportion of such nervous patients undoubtedly suffer from what is known as hyperthyroidism. Cases of hyperthyroidism may occur Avithout evident local thyroid changes upon which the tangible responsibility can be placed. These are due to faulty rela- tion between the ovarian secretion, on the one hand, and the thyroid secretion on the other. Altered or diminished ovarian secretion results in a relative increase of secretion from the thyroid. The consequent symptoms vary from nervousness and irritability, up to symptoms which include sleeplessness, palpitation, rapid pulse, causeless diarrhea, flushes, etc., but without any exophthalmos, goitre or marked tachycardia; or