HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. 9 quence of faulty metabolism originating in the small intestine and its glandular appendages—the liver and pancreas. We have seen cases at all ages and in both sexes, but the large proportion were between thirty and fifty years of age. Men seem to suffer more frequently than women. Cases are both acute and chronic, but the majority were ailing from the chronic course of the complaint; the condition extending over a period of many weeks or months, and not infrequently covering a period of years. For the most part, and briefly stated, their condition, when they present themselves to the clinician, is as follows: Their general appearance may be very fair, and to all intent and purpose, little seemingly ails such patients, their symptoms being subjective rather than objective. Such is the case, how- ever, only with those who suffer from the milder degree of the condition, or with one in whom it has lasted but for a short period. These patients frequently present the appearance such as is seen in a mild grade of anemia, but, in addition, they are sallow. The conjunctivae are slightly icteroidal. The term, jaundiced, does not apply to such patients, whereas sallow and icteroidal does. The tongue is coated yellowish white, or yellowish gray. This coating may be thin or thick; extend over the entire tongue, or be limited to the back of that organ. Often the tongue is dry. These patients may be fairly well-nourished, but in the chronic cases, where the toxemia has seriously affected the general metabolism and nervous system, marked emaciation may exist. They not infrequently present a rather melancholic, listless, or depressed attitude, although, at times, the reverse of this is so in such cases as are complicated by neurasthenia. On questioning these patients, it will be found that they have cer- tain characteristic symptoms; barring some of the very severe or, at times, unusual ones, these symptoms begin in a characteristic way and run a definite course. In other words, we may say that the quality of these patients' history is the same, although the force or quantity of any particular symptom may vary, and be more or less in any particular individual, the varia- tion depending, to a great extent, on the patient's peculiar susceptibility to the toxemia and especially on his nervous condition at the time; for when hepato-intestinal-toxemia