THROMBOPHLEBITIS OF THE SIGMOID SINUS AND 46 DEEP JUGULAR VEIN, FOLLOWING MAS- TOIDITIS—TWO ILLUSTRATIVE CASES. BY WILLY MEYER, M.D. Professor of Surgery at the New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. Although the operation for mastoiditis and its complications has had to be conceded to the otologist, it nevertheless occasionally happens that the general surgeon is called upon to perform this work. Thus, in the course of many years, it has been my good, or hard luck, to have seen in consultation two serious cases of sinus phlebitis and thrombosis of the deep jugular vein demanding prompt action. While meditating as to what a general surgeon could best contribute to a Festschrift, dedicated to a colleague who did so much for the advancement of otology, and enjoyed an international reputation among ophthalmologists as well as otologists, it occurred to me that it might not be amiss to present the histories of these two interesting cases. Case I.—Male, aged 16 years, came under my observation in February, 1899. He gave a history of trouble with the right ear that had existed for a year when, suddenly, septic symptoms developed. An aural surgeon, Dr. M. Toeplitz of this city, was called in. On trephining the right mastoid and finding the antrum filled with pus, he continued the wound down to the dura mater and exposed the sinus. At this point the patient became so weak that the operation had to be discontinued. A few days later he had a sudden chill and developed an effusion into the sheath of the tendons of the right peronei muscles, which was the cause of my being consulted. An incision was made over the swelling and it was found that the sheath con- tained turbid serum. This was evacuated and drained, but the patient did not improve and, subsequently, he developed a marked swelling on the right side of the neck, causing a good deal of pain. When I was called in again to see the case, it was evident that the sinus phlebitis had extended downward and produced a thrombosis of the deep jugular vein. Of course, operation was promptly decided upon. First the sinus within