HEPATO-INTESTINAL-TOXEMIA. 11 and also feelings of " light-headedness." This dizziness, or " light-headedness " may be limited to such times when the patient makes a sudden effort to rise from a reclining or sitting posture, or when he raises the head suddenly from the inclined position. At times, however, these feelings of dizziness and vertigo are much more severe. They may, indeed, for the time being, prevent the patient from raising his head at all, or they may temporarily interfere with his gait. He may bump into doors and walls whilst walking, and this, combined with his other ill feelings, may alarm him and his friends. These dis- turbances are apt to be repeated in the severer cases, and in the remittent type may occur off and on, for weeks and months, or until such time as the toxemic condition has been cured. Palpitation may come on at any time, especially from exertion, or after meals; but, often enough, the palpitation seems to be caused by the toxemia itself, and its time and mode of onset is variable. Sudden dyspnea may occur in these cases, accompanied by feelings of impending dissolution. At times such attacks are severe and alarming, and their onset so sudden and unexpected, that it is difficult to persuade the patient that neither his heart nor his respiratory tract are diseased. In fact, the medical attendant himself, has he not seen such cases, may, until he has convinced himself by most thorough and repeated investigations, be led to believe that some obscure cardiac lesion exists. In these attacks of dyspnea the patient feels that he cannot take a deep breath; his heart may palpitate; arythmia may occur, and to these sensations is added one of impending death. The patient may wake up with such an attack, or he may be walking in the street when seized with such a paroxysm. The first sensation may be that of a warm wave or flush passing suddenly over his entire body. Immediately upon this, he will be seized with the attack of dyspnea, palpitation, oppression in the chest, and feeling of imminent death. In some, dyspneic attacks may occur but once, or again, they may occur quite frequently during the course of the disease, and last for from a few minutes to an hour or longer. At times breathless- ness on exertion is another marked symptom of both the acute and chronic form of the condition. Oddly enough, in cases in which it is manifest, it becomes especially marked after a dose of a mercurial, particularly after calomel. It would seem