172 URETHRAL CALCULUS. BY JOHN J. MCGRATH, M.D. Professor of Operative Surgery, New York Post-Graduate Medical School and Hospital. James B., age 24 years, entered the Harlem Hospital upon the suggestion of Dr. Frederick E. Bauer, December 14, 1907. The patient stated that four weeks before admission he began to experience difficulty in urination, delay in starting the flow and diminution in the volume of the stream. The difficulty gradually increased until, for the past few days, the urine has. been discharged in drops and only with considerable straining and some pain. Finally, for the past 16 hours he has been unable to pass any urine whatever. Previous to the beginning of his present trouble, dating back four weeks, he claims that he has had no symptoms of any kind referable to the bladder or urethra. He had never passed any blood. Upon admission the patient was found to be suffering from retention of urine. The bladder was very much distended^ An attempt to introduce a catheter into the bladder was not. successful, and a metal instrument met with an obstacle which prevented its passage and which communicated a distinct, gritty sensation and click. A hard lump, the size of a pigeon's egg, could be felt in the perineum just back of the scrotal fold. This mass was not adherent to the skin and was not especially tender. Under ether anesthesia an incision was made in the middle line of the perineum down through the mass, and a stone was removed which is represented in the accompanying illustra- tions (Fig. 1). The stone was found lodged in the bulbous por- tion of the urethra. The wall of the urethra was much chick- ened and swollen and fitted snugly around the stone. After the stone was removed, a sound was passed from the incision in the perineum, through the deep urethra, into the bladder. No further stones were detected in the bladder. The calibre of the deep urethra accommodated a No. 30 French sound, and was certainly not sufficiently roomy to permit the passage of such a large stone as the one which had been removed from