PERNICIOUS ANEMIA. 102 In two of my cases the septic condition of the mouth through carious teeth and ulcerated gums preceded the symptom-com- plex of pernicious anemia for a considerable period of time, and was so evident that no doubt remained in my mind about this state being the true cause of the disease. M's and one other case correspond in every particular to certain cases reported by Grawitz, in 1901 and 1902, and responded so well to the special treatment by entero- and hypodermoclysis proposed by him that, after excluding carefully all other etiological elements, we were convinced that hemolytic ferments produced in the diseased alimentary tract had given rise to pernicious anemia in these cases. Nevertheless, there are other and probably many other cases of pernicious anemia which are not due to the destructive action of hemolytic ferments, but to abnormal or defective hemato- genesis; indeed, Ehrlich's normoblasts and megaloblasts, which are found in the blood and are distinctive of this anemia, appear to point to the truth of this hypothesis. Besides, Osier and some other observers have published undoubted cases of the disease which were cured by the persistent use of Fowler's solution alone. One would be inclined to believe the etiology in these cases must have been faulty hematogenesis, corrected by the introduction of increasing doses of arsenic. With regard to diagnosis, it will not be difficult to distinguish pernicious anemia from chlorosis and secondary anemia, because the hemoglobin in the individual red corpuscles in chlorosis is minus, while it is plus in pernicious anemia, and the average size of the erythrocytes here is larger than normal. Charac- teristic are the findings of megalocytes and of the large erythro- cytes, Ehrlich's gigantoblasts. Poikilocytosis may be found in any severe anemia and is therefore not pathognomonic; important are also the low count of the red cells, down even to a million per cubic centimeter, the high color index and the higher percentage of mononuclears. Our first case is one presenting all the clinical and morpho- logical features of this disease, in which, after one year of treat- ment and supervision, the patient has entirely recovered and the blood returned to its normal condition. It has been estab- lished in recent years that cases of severe pernicious anemia do recover and that the number of such recoveries has increased