4C9 AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. to defective vitality of the gray matter of the central nervous system. Sachs is very emphatic in his opinion that the disease is not an acquired one, whereas Hirsch is equally emphatic that it is acquired and due to toxemia. He advocates arti- ficial feeding in these families, while Sachs has shown in some of his patients that the subjects were not breast-fed, and yet were affected with the disease. Poynton and Parsons think the disease is not due either to arrested development or bacterial toxins, but is caused by an inherent biochemical property of the protoplasm of the cells resulting in degeneration of the neurons. They are also of the opinion that the primary changes are in the ganglian cells and the secondary changes in the white fibres. After a rather careful survey of the literature on the subject, and reading the views of many writers, I am inclined to agree with the view of Cohen and Dixon (1907), in a recent article on this disease, expressed as follows: " It seems to me that the arrested development theory of Sachs, the degenerative theory of Kingdon and Russell, and the toxin theory of Hirsch fit together very well. There is every reason to believe that a child can be born normal and for a short time give no indica- tion that it will not continue in this condition. We have all seen this over and over again; in fact, it is the rule. A child does not cease to develop when it is able to breathe, and the central nervous system is the most backward of all. If the central nervous system fails to develop properly, the finer de- generation must follow, and it is only a step further to the de- velopment of toxins due to errors in metabolism." J. H. McKee (1905) also has remarked that: " possibly nutritive or metabolic factors may account for both the arrested develop- ment and the degeneration occurring in this disease." As to the biochemical changes spoken of by Poynton and Parsons, I am unable to understand the same, unless they are due to metabolic disturbances. Differential Diagnosis.—There are other brain diseases of childhood somewhat allied to amaurotic family idiocy, between which it is sometimes difficult to make a diagnosis. 1. This disease is often mistaken for meningitis, but a careful examination of the fundus shows the difference at once, espe- cially after the third or fourth month of age. The condition