355 PANAS' OPERATION FOR STRABISMUS. social class where strabismus offends. This applies par excellence in the lives of school children, who form the very large majority of these patients. From the fifth to the twentieth years of life we find strabismus to predominate; while from the second to the seventh year of life it originates from various causes. To my mind, the argument admits of no question as to the proper procedure—and I am not speaking of only these cases in which surgical interference is obviously indicated, and offers the only hope of attainment of cure. Cases of functional squint, properly amenable to orthoptic and educational treatment, are excluded. Far be it from the arguments of this paper to contend that all cases of squint must, because such, be operated on. All stu- dents in this department know that from 25 to 33 per cent, of cases of initial and functional strabismus can be successfully treated by judicious orthoptic measures. Careful examinations have determined that 80% of the new-born are hyperopic; of these 80%, 60% have strabismus in greater or less degree; and, depending on the age of develop- ment of the strabismus, and its determining cause, a very small per cent, are self-curable. The self-adjusting and self-adjustable cases occur before the eighth year of life; rarely does one see such an ideal physiological result, without any interference, as late as the tenth year of life. The unfortunate factor of the let-alone method; or, must I say it? the note metangere, neglect is dangerous delay, whether hope proves more dominant than judgment. A brief description of Panas' method of operation is as follows: I offer a liberal translation of his own communication to the Academy of Medicine, Paris, session of July, 1898. It was his second paper on this subject, and is published in full in the Archives d'Ophtalmologie, July, 1898, p. 401. The patient being chloroformed, the usual antiseptic means are employed, by preference a solution of biniodid of mercury, so universally used in Paris hospitals. The conjunctival fold is seized horizontally over the rectus tendon, and tendon and subconjunctival fascia are incised. A short strabismus hook is introduced deeply into the buttonhole, and by a brisk movement in circumduction, tendon and tendinous envelope are embraced within the hook. Holding the loaded hook up in the air, slowly progressive trac- tions are made without jerks or twitches, until the inner border