412 AMAUROTIC FAMILY IDIOCY. in the ganglionic and inner granular layers to back-folding of these naturally thick areas by the abrupt elevation which has occurred at the fovea.* The ganglion cells did not appear enlarged. Nucleus, nu- cleolus and cell reticulum were fairly well shown. The nucleus was usually eccentric. Many cells were surrounded by clear spaces. All efforts to stain for Nissl bodies failed. Probably they were not present, although Orth's fluid is not the proper fixative when they are to be sought for. In many of the ganglion cells, Weigert's stain revealed the presence of black granules in the cytoplasm, which have been so frequently found in this disease. Although most of the changes here noted are due to post- mortem degeneration or unequal shrinking of the retina from the hardening process, many of them have formerly been looked upon as related to this disease. In all cases that have been subjected to autopsy, extensive degeneration of the ganglion cells in the brain and cord have been found. This naturally leads one to expect similar degenerations in the cerebral layer of the retina. That this is actually the case, has been conclu- sively proved by Dr. Ward A. Holden, who, in a typical case of this disease, found marked degeneration in the ganglion cells of the retina with entire absence of Nissl's bodies. The success- ful demonstration of these minute changes requires fresh ma- terial and special methods of preparation. It is to be regretted that these conditions were not fulfilled in the present case. I submitted my slides to Dr. Holden, who kindly examined them, but he would add nothing to the above findings. This examination proves that the characteristic ophthal- moscopic picture found in this disease does not depend upon retinal edema. It is highly probable that, as in obstruction of the central artery, the appearance results from degeneration and loss of transparency in the ganglion cell and nerve fibre layers. The microscopic findings which tend to confirm the clinical diagnosis are: 1. The total absence of all inflammatory processes or other * In some reports, multiplication of ganglion cells at the macula is described as a pathological process. Pathological proliferation of ganglion cells in the central nervous system has not yet been established.