3 0 The University Library Leeds The Blanche Leigh Collection LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: f\ 00b 06 01105 2940I f I I I 1 IDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/detaiis/b21527659THE COOK’S DICTIONARY, AND HOUSE KEEPER’S DIRECTORY: A NEW FAMILY MANUAL OF COOKERY AND CONFECTIONERY, ON A PLAN OF READY REFERENCE NEVER HITHERTO ATTEMPTED. BY RICHARD ^LBY, COOK AT THE THATCHED-HOUSE TAVERN, ■ ST, JAMES^ STREET. LONDON: HENRY COLBURN AND RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 1830.t 5|At*cll LONDON : SUACICELI. AND CO., JOHNSON’s-COUIIT, rLEET-STIlEET,ADVERTISEMENT. In presenting this system of Cookery to the Public^ the Editor begs leave to state, that the Work is not only substantially new, but composed upon a plan entirely original. The arrangement is alphabetical, at once the simplest and best for reference; yet it has never hitherto been adopted by writers on Cookery. To all other arts and sciences this mode of arrangement has been successfully applied; and Dictionaries of these have been found to be the most convenient and popular compendiums of knowledge. Perhaps of all works that teach the arts of civilized life. Cookery Books most require to be easy of reference; the preparation of a single dish will often compel a cook to turn to a dozen receipts ; and the plan of all the systems hitherto existing is so confused, that, when this is the case, much time must be lost in searching for them. The difficulty of finding, with sufficient dispatch, the various receipts which are often required, has long been complained of; and it is tfrerefore singular that the plan of the present Work, apparently so obvious, and certainly so well calculated to save time and abridge labour, should not have been sooner adopted. With regard to the contents of this volume, apart from its pZa??, the Editor begs to state, that he has enriched his Dictionary of Cookery and Confectionery with numerous excellent receipts, most of which have seldom or never appeared in print before; and these have a star prefixed to note them. The number of asterisks througliout the work will abundantly prove that novelty of matter, as well as of plan, may be claimed for this volume. To the important subject ofADVERTISEMENT. IV Confectionery, so much neglected in other Cookery Books, much i attention has been paid; and, upon the whole, the Editor ventures i to hope that he will be allowed to have given to the public a valuable • Work Among other novelties will be found an alphabetical list of' the various kinds of Fish, Flesh, Fowl, Fruits, and "V^egetables, with i the months when each is in season, and original instructions for • choosing the several kinds of Food. The Editor has only further to observe, that, so far is he from arrogating too much to himself of the credit which may be thought due to the work, that he is free to confess himself largely indebted to the talents and labours of numerous friends in the profession, to whom he takes this opportunity of returning his grateful acknow- ledgments. London, May, 1830.A DICTIONARY OF COOKERY, CONFECTIONERY, 6^'c. 8^c. A ACID Sauce.—Pound the yolks of three hard eggs, one anchovy, with a pinch of salt and spices, half a glass of vinegar, and butter rolled in flour ; add a little veal gravy (or onions), and thicken it like while sauce. ADMIRAL’S Sfmce.—Chop an an- chovy, seven or eight green rocamboles, simmer them on the fire vvilh a little cojisommtl, salt,pepper, nutmeg,and but- ter rolled in flour. When ready, add a little lemon-juice, or a spoonful of ver- juice. almond Biscuits.*—Blanch and pound a qi arter of a pound of sweet almonds, sprinkling them occasionally with fine sugar; then beat them up for a quarter of an hour with an ounce of flour, the volks of three eggs, and four ounces of fine sugar, adding afterwards the whites of four eggs whipt to a froth : have ready some paper moulds made like boxes, about the length of two fingers square ; butter them within, and put in the biscuits, throwing over them equal quantities of flour and powdered sugar; bake in a cool oven, and when the bis- cuits are done of a good colour, take them out of the papers. Bitter almond bis- cuits are made in the same manner, with this difierence, that to two ounces of bit ter almonds must be added one ounce of sweet almonds. A^.^JOlsn JJiscuifs.*—Take eight ounces of sweet, and ns many bitter almonds, fifteen whites, and eight yolks of eggs, two ounces of flour, and two pounds of powder sugar, pour boiling wateron your almonds, and almost immediately after turn that away and pour cold water on them; rub oil'the skins one by one willi SI napkin, then pound them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them with the whites of two eggs. Beat the fifteen whites to a snow, and the eight yolks with half the quantity of the sugar, and then mix them with the almond paste; put the remainder of the sugar into a basin; sift some flour over it; stir the mixture till all the ingredients are tho- roughly incorporated, and pour jt into small paper cases, glaze them with the sugar and flour sifted over them. Bake them in a pretty warm oven. Auiond Biscuits {small).*—Beat up the yolks of three eggs for ten minutes, with four ouncesof powder-sugar and one ounce of bitter almonds well pounded ; then add awhole egg, and beat it up five minutes longer. Whip the whites to a strong froth ; mix them and an ounce and half of fine sifted flour with the yolks work this paste well, and then pour it into small well-buttered copper moulds melon-shaped; glaze them ; sprinkle them with powder sugar, and bake for eighteen or twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Almond Biscuits {soufflis).*—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into dice and dry them in the oven. Make a glaze with the whites of two new-laid eggs; mix the almonds and a pindi of crisped orange flowers into this, and put it into very small paper cases ; do not fill them above half full, as they rise consi- derably in the oven, and would other- wise fall over and spoil their appearance ; bake them in a moderately heated oven. As soon as they are pretty firm, they are done. Almonds (blown).—Scald a few al- monds, and pound them to about half as fine as for biscuits, heat them with lemon juice, whiles of eggs and powder-sugar ; drop them on paper, about the size of almonds, and dry them in a stove or gentle oven. A hMonns (blown) a, la Roi/rt/e.*—Choose four onnees of small thick almonds, and put them into an oven until they are slightly coloured. Whilst they are cool-( A L M ) A L M ing, mix four ounces of sugar with an egg; lieat them up for ten minutes ; add a little carmine to make it a fine rose colour; dip the almonds into this: take them out; disengage them from the egg, so tliat they may be only just covered with it; lay them two and two on a sheet of strong paper three-quarters of an inch between each pair; tliey may also be placed in threes to form the tre-foil, on which_ may be added a fourth. Bake them in a cool oven. Almond Brearf.—Take a pound of the best almonds, slice them the round way, lieat and sift a pound of double-refined Kugar, and strew it over the almonds as you cut them, stirring them frequently to prevent their sticking together; when all the sugar is used, put them into an earthen basin, with a few carraway seeds, a little gum dragon (dissolved in rose-water and strained), three grains of musk and ambergris dissolved in fine sugar, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a very light froth, and two spoonsful of fine flour: when well mixed, lay them on wafers the size of macaroons; open them with a knife or bodkin, lest two or three pieces stick together; the quicker you lay them, the better they will look; put them into a well-heated oven, taking care they do not scorch; when half- baked, talce them out, wash them with the white of an egg beaten to a froth, grate a little fine sugar over them, and bake them about half an hour longer. Almond Butler.—To a quarter of a pound of blanched almonds, well beat, put some new milk and rose-water; take a quart of tliick cream, and the yolks of twelve eggs beat well with a little of the cream ; tlien add the rest of the cream; put a quarter of a pint of new milk to the almonds, and strain them into the cream till there is no strength left; strain all together into a skillet, set it over a char- coal fire, and stir it till it comes to a ten- der curd; put it into a strainer, and hang it up till the whey is drained out; then take six ounces of fine sifted sugar and a little rose-water, and beat it all into butt"r with a spoon. Almond Ca^e.*—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet and two large bitter almonds, pound them very fine, with a little white of egg; add to them about a quarter of a pound of fine powdered sugar, two ounces of butter, a macaroon, the yolks of two eggs, two spoonshil of wliipt cream ; mix these ingredients well together with a little salt. Make an under crust of puli' paste; and after having rolled it seven or eight times, cut it round, and put it in a cake-lin ; moisten the edges slightly, and pour on it the almond paste, and c.iver it with the pair paste, and join tliem closely. Wash it over with a very clear dorure, and witli the point of your knife mark what ornament you please on the sur- face.—Let it bake in a moderately liot oven for about an hour; take it out and sprinkle it with sugar. Almond Cake.—Take, eight ounces of Jordan and one ounce of bitter almonds, blanch and pound them very fine; then beat in with the almonds the yolks of eight eggs, and whisk up the whites to a solid froth. Then take eight table speons- fiil of sifted sugar, five spoonsful of fine flour, a small quantity of grated lemon peel and pounded cinnamon, and mix all the ingredients. Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter, fill it with the mixture and bake it of a light colour. Almond Cake.*—Put a quartern of flour upon a pie-board, and make a hole in the middle to receive a piece of butter the size of an egg, a little salt, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and six ounces of sweet almonds pounded very fine: knead the whole, and form it into acake; bake, and glaze it with sugar and a hot salamander. Another way.—Weigh three eggs in their shells, take the same weight of flour, of the finest fresh butter, and of grated loaf sugar. Pound »vith lliese in- gredients three ounces of sweet almonds blanclied; add a little grated lemon-peel, or orange flow'er-water, and the whites and yolks of three eggs. Continue pound- ing till the whole forms a smooth paste. Blitter the bottom of a baking-pan, and put in the cake with fire above and be- low. This cake may be served either hot or cold, w'ith grated sugar over it. Almond {hitter) Ca^.*—Pound three ounces (half bitter and half sweet) of al- monds, put them into an earthen pan with six ounces of powder-sugar; tlie same of sifted flour, two whole eggs, and six yolks, a spoonful of brandy and a grain or two of salt; work these up loge- ther for five minutes, and then add six ounces of fresh butter which is slightly warmed, work tliat in for four minutes longer. Then, having wiiipt the whiter of two eggs, mix them into the paste. Butter a well-tinned copper mould or paper case, ten Indies long, five wide, and two high ; pour in your preparation, and liake it in a cool oven. While b.aking, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix two ounces of powder sugar witli them, and cut four ounces of sweet almonds into slips (sbortwise); mix them also with two ounces of powder sugar ami a spoonful of wliite of egg whipped. In thrce-quai tens of an hour take out the cake, ana if it bo( 3 ) A L M A L M firm and well-coloured, cover it wltli the whipped egg and sugar, and on that sirew the almonds equally, pressing them in, that all may be coloured alike. _ 1 his ope- ration must be performed as quick as pos- sible. and when done, turn the cake out and cut it in four slips (lengthwise), and then divide each into six parts lozenge- shaped ; this will give you twenty-four cakes, which must be aiTanged in stars on your dish, six to every star. They may also be cut in two lengths instead of four, and these divided into fifteen small pieces, and then, with a paste-cutter, formed into crescents. The ingredients, and the proper quantities for this cake, are as follows:—six ounces of flour, the same of powder-sugar, three ounces of sweet and liitteralmonds, six yolks, and tivo whole eggs, six ounces of butter, two of sugar mixed with the whites of two eggs whipped, four ouncesof cutalmonds added to the sugar and eggs, a spoonful ofbrandyanda grain of salt. Aimo.nd Small Cakes.—{Spanish.)*— Two ounces of bitter aliponds blanched and beaten to a paste with a little white of egg; add to them one pound of flour dried, one pound of sugar pounded fine, and five ounces of butter, mix them well together and let it stand some time be- fore the fire: then add three eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately ; drop them on a tin in small Jumps with a fork, to bake them. Almond {small) Cakes.*—Blanch half a pound of almonds, pound them to a paste with white of egg, add three quar- ters of a pound of powder-sugar, one of orange flowers pralin&e, and about two ounces of creme pdlissiire ; take some puft’ paste, roll it out very thin, cut it into small square pieces, lay them on a baking plate, and put some of the above mixture on each, moisten the edges, cover them with the puff paste, dorez, prick and bake them in a hot oven, when done, ice them with sugar. Almond {solid) Cake.* — Take two pounds of sweet .almonds, blanch and pound them with the whites of four eggs; then add the ze,vfes of two lemons sliced, two pinches of orange flowerspea/me’e, a little salt, two pounds of powder-sugar, a quarter of a pound of potntoe flower, and twelve whole eggs; mix all together well, and put it into a buttered mould, and bake it in a slow oven. Almond Candy.*—Blanch a pound of new Jordan almonds, and cut them very thin, lengthways, put them into a pound of clarified sugar to crisp them, stir them over the fire till boiled U> sni/ffl6; tiien take them ofl' and keep stirring till tlie *ugar is dry like sand; then sift it, so that B the almonds may be left, divide them into four parts to colour them diirerently,qne part red, the second yellow, the third green, and the fourth left white as they come from the sugar. _ To colour the first, soak a small quantity of carmine in clarified sugar, and lay your almonds in it; do the same with a little tincture of salFron for the yellow, and spinach juice for the green. Place the coloured al- monds on a sieve in a stove; when dry, mix all together, adding the white ones. Boil nearly as much sugar as your mould will require to smiJ/U, put it in, and when the almonds are quite dry, g.nrnish the surface of the sugar with them ; do not, however, lay them too thick, and just press them down with a fork; put the mould into a moderate oven for five hours, then drain it well, and in another two hours it may be taken from the mould. Almond Cheesecakes.*—Take half a pound of Jordan almonds, lay them in cold water all night; the next mortiing blanch them in cold water; then take them out and dry them in a clean cloth, beat them very tine in a little orange flower water; then take six eggs, leave outfour whites, with a little beaten mace; beat them well in a marble mortar; take ten ounces of fresh butter, melt it, add a little grated lemon-peel, and put them in the mortar with the other ingredients; mix all well together and fill your patty- pans, having lined them with thin puli' paste. Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few bitter with a spoonful ofwater; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the wliites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible; put into very small patty-pans, and bake in a pretty warm oven twenty minutes. Almonds, (Cinnamon).— {Spanish.)* Blanch your almonds, then with a bit of butter tied in a piece of cloth, rub the pan and brown them. Have ready some cla- rified sugar,with powdered cinnamon stir- red in it, put in the almonds, and when well covered with the sugar and cinna- mon, lay them separ.ately on tins, and dry in a slow oven, Almonds ( To Colour),*—Almond.s {rose coloured.)—Blanch .and cut sweet almonds in small pieces, put them on a baking plate, and pour on them a little of any veget.able liquid, of an infusion of cochineal, or cannine ; then rub them in yo\ir hands, to mix them well with the colour; when allure so done, dry them in a stove or in the oven, Almonds {violet).—Are done in the same way, the colouring ingredients are cochineal, and a little indigo dissolved inA L M ( 4 ) A L M water, put but a small quantity of the latter at a time, as it is very powerful. Almonds {green).—The same proceed- ing: the colour is made with two hand- fuls of fresh spinach, well washed, drain- ed, and then pounded ; when very line, press it through a napkin ; let the juice drop on a dish, which place on a hot stove ; as soon as it begins to boil, take it off, stirring it constantly, till the green curdles, then pour it through a horse- hair sieve, and when well drained strain it through a silk sieve or tammy; the juice thusobtained, will give the almonds (which must be put in a fevv at a time) a clear and even green colour. Almonds {blue).—Dissolve a little in- digo in water, strain it through a cloth and use it as above mentioned. _ Almonds {orange coloured).—Mix a little liquid red, and a little infusion of saffron together, and proceed with the almonds as usual. Almonds {lemon coloured).—Infuse a small quantity of saffron in nearly boil- ing water for a few minutes ; strain and follow the above direction. Almonds {chncolale colotcred).—Are dyed with chocolate dissolved in water and strained. The almonds may be cut in slips, dice, &c. according fo fancy. Observe that the colour of your almonds should be light and delicate; when done, place them, either separately or mixed together, in paper cases. Almonds {burnt) Conserve of.*— Blanch and cut six ounces ol sw'eet al- monds into small strips, lay them on paper and put them into an oven; when they are brown, take them out, and throw them into two pounds of sugar boiled to velit cassS, stir the mixture well until it begins to blow, and then pour it into paper cases or moulds. Almond Coupeuux.* Blanch and pound half a pound of sweet almonds, with the whites of thiee eggs into a very line paste, add to it six ounces of powder- ed sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; ■when thoroughly mixed together, pour over it about four spoonsful of orange- flower water; stir up the paste (whi<h ought to be rather thiu,) once more, and then lay it with a spoon on aplateol bright copper, in an oval form, about three or four inches in length. The plate being quite full, take it up by both hands, and btrike it steadily upon a table, so that the paste may be extended, but itot much ; then bake them until they become of a deep yellow. Take them from the cop- per with a kr.ifc, and whilst hot p\it them on a wooden roller, iibout the thickitess of an arm, and press them with your hand. that they may acquire the form of tlie wood, and when cool place in a Iwx, and keep them dry. These coupeaux are very brittle. Almond Cream.*—Blanch six ounces of sweet almonds and pound them very line ; whip up ttie whiles of two eggs with a pint ef milk and four ounces of powder sugar; boil the milk over a gentle fire till reduced to a quarter, then add the almonds, let it boil a minute or two; pour in a spoonful of orange flower-water. When cold, garnish it with almonds uu caramel. Almond Cream.—Put a pint of milk and a pint of cream, with a small bit of lemon peel, into a stewpan, to boil very gently lor twenty minutes; in the mean while, blanch and pound very fine, three ounces of sweet almonds and half an ounce of bitter almonds ; then take the milk and cream from the fire, into which (while hot) stir the pounded almonds with the yolks of two or three eggs and clarified sugar (boiled to caramel height) enough to sweeten it; then put the whole into a tammy, and, with a wooden spoon, well rub and squeeze it through; do this a second time, then squeeze into the cream two ounces of well clarified isin- glass, the whole being together in a basin, have your mould ready in ice, into which put the cream; when set, turn it out as any other jelly. Almond Cream.*—Take six ounces of sweet almonds, a pint of good milk, and five ounces of sugar; peel the almonds and throw them into cold water; when well drained, pound them with a little water. Beat up in the milk the whites of two eggs, in which dissolve the sugar, and then boil it on a slow fire; when atout a quarter of the quantity is wasted away, add to it the almond paste, boil these together once, put in a little orange flower, and strain it. Let it stand, and when cold serve it. garnish it with al- monds au caramel broiled, di.sposed ac- cording to your taste. Almonds Crisped.*—Bub a pound of the bestsweet almonds in a cloth to take oil'all the dust, and then put them, with H pound of sugar, half a glass of water and a little carmine, into a preserving pan ; put them on the fire, and let them remain ; when the almonds crackle take them oll’and work them about until the sugar !s detached from the almonds. the:t take away part of the sugar, put the al- monds on the fire iigain, and stir them lightly with a spatula, (be careful that the fire be not too quick); and when they have taken thesugar, add that which had been removed, and continue to burn them till they have imbibed th.at also. PlaceA L M ( I ) A L M a plieet of paper on a sieve, throw your p.lmoiuls on it, separate those which au- here together, ami let tiiciii cool. Almond Custavds.—Blnnch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with aspoon- ful of water; bent a pintof cream with two spoonsful of rose-water, and put to them the volKs of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet, then add tlie almonds; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness, but not to boil. Pour it into cups. Another way.—MA to a pint and a half of cream a small stick of cinnamon, a blade of mace, a bit of lemon peel, some nutmeg and sugar to the taste ; boil them tngetherten minutes, and strain it; then blanch and pound three ounces of Jordan and eight single bitter almonds ; after which rub through a hair sieve,add the fine pulp to the cream, likewise a little syrup of roses and the yolks of six eggs beaten up, and put the mixture into small cups ; or it may be baked in a dish with a rim of puli'paste round it. Almonos {Devilled).—Blanch half a pound of jordan almonds, and wipe them dry; then put into a frying-pan two ounces of fresh butter, make it hot, add the almonds, try them gently till of a good brown colour, drain them on a hair sieve, strew over cayenne pepper and salt, and serve them up hot. Almond Draqies.—Take of the best and largest almonds what quantity you please, and having washed tliem in pid water, let them drain and dry on a sieve for twenty-four hours. The next day weigh them, and for each pound of al- monds take three pounds of sugar; clarify the latter and boil it to the degree petit lissd ; then letit cool a little. Have your tossing pan ready; on your right hand, a chafing dish to keep your pan containing the syrup constantly warm ; and on your left hand, a table with a mixture of pow- der and fl.aur (of each lialf a pound to a pound of almonds). All being ready, put the almonds into tlie pan, and pour over them one or two large spoonsful of tlie syrup, and shake them so that all the al- monds may be welted with syrup; then take a handful or two of the. flour and powder, and strew it over the wet al- monds; shake tliem again, tint the flour may adhere all round the almonds. Af- ter, this swing the pan backwards and forwards, by whicli means the almonds roll about in every direction; continue this motion until they bcconae dry; tlien moisten and powder them as before; swing the pan again, and when dry, re- peat tlie process a tliird, fourih, and fiftli time, or more, until they are of a proper size; then pour over them the syrup for the last time, without the powder, and, having swung and dried them, take tliem out and place them on sieves in a warm place, tliat they may dry perfectly belore you put them by for use. Observe, that after a fevr layers of the syrup, the siiperabund.ant parts of that and the powder form a white crust at the bottom of the pan ; as soon as it ac- quires any degree of thickness, the pan must be taken from the fire, the almonds carefully removed with an iron spatula, and the crust broken off; when the pan lias been well washed and dried, replace the almonds and proceed with your work. I'liis mustbe strictly attended to, notonly with this,but in makingallkindsof sweet- meats. The sugar thus cleared away may be made useful for many purposes. Common Almond Dragees are made in the same manner; tlie only difference consists in having ingredients of an in fei ior quality. Almonds, English Fashion.—Mix al- monds and filberts scalded in equal quan- tities ; chop one half very fine, cut the rest each into two or three slices; pu: the whole in double their weight of sugar, prepared d la grande plume, with some lemon peel rasped; stir the almonds very well in the sugar, taking it oft' the fire, and add one or two whites of eggs; pour it in paper large enough to contain the whole, and cut it in slices for use as you think proper, when baked as usual. Almonds {Milk of) Fanchonnetles.*— Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet and one of bitter almonds, and when tlie paste is very fine, .add to it three glasses of nearly boiling milk, then press this mixture through a napkin to draw out tlie milk. Put into astewpan four yolks of eggs, three ounces of powder-sugar, one of sifted flour, and a grain of salt, mix them well together, and add by de- grees the almond milk, put this on a moderatefire,stirringitconstaiitly. Line about thirty tartlet moulds witli tliin puli' paste, and put on them a little of the above preparation, and bake them in a moderate oven. When properly done, take them out and let them cool. Mix with the whites of three hard eggs, four ounces ol powder-sugar, stir it well to soften the egg, and make it work easily ; put some of the remainder of your pre- paration on each of the fanchomieltes, and cover them lightly with the egg ; pin. some white of egg on the blade of a large knife, and with a small one as quick .as possible take off seveu mermgues about the size of a filbert, and arrange them in tlie form of a crown on each fanchonnetle; wlien yoH have done five or six, cover) A L M A L M ( 6 andtlien bake them ill a cool oven. AVlien | of a reddisii brown they are done and may he served. AcMO.NDFfMMweriy.—Boil threeounces of hartsiiorn in two quarts of spring water ; let it simmer six or seven hours till half the water is consumed ; strain it through a sieve ; he.at lialf a pound of al- monds very fine, witli aciuantiiy of orange ilower water ; mix a little of the jelly and some fine sugar with it; strain it wiihthe rest of the jelly, stirring it till it is a little more than blood warm ; pour it into basins or cups, and stick in almonds cut small. Almond Fraze.—Blanch a' pound of jordan almoiius, and steep them in a pint of cream, ten yolks, and four whites of eggs ; take out the almonds and pound themfine in a marble mortar; then mix them again in the cream and eggs, put in sugar and grated bread, and stir them all together; then put some fresh butter into the pan, let it be hot and poor it in, stirring it in the pan till they are of a sufficient consistence; and when enough, turn it into a dish, strew sugar over it, and serve it up. Almond Fritters.—Pound half apound of sweet almonds, and six or eight bitter ones, orange flowers, chopped lemon- peel, sugar in proportion, a handful of flour, and two or three whites of eggs; pound all together some time, adding a few drops of water, or more whitesofeggs, to make it of a proper suppleness to roll into little balls ; roll them in flour to fry as forcemeat balls; strevv a little fine sugar- powder upon them when reaily to set ve. Aljionds {Bitter) Fromage Bavarois o/.*—Peel, wash, and drain, three ounces of sweet, and one ounce of hi tteralmonds, Ijonnd them to a paste, moistening w'ith two spoonsful of water. Putthem intoan earthen pan, with two glasses of nearly' boiling milk, in which eight ounces of sugar have been dissolved ; let this stand an hour, then strain it through a fine sieve, and put to it six drachms of isin- glass lukewarm ; place the whole in ice, and when it begins to set, add some whipped cream; pour it into a mould wliich has been kept in ice, put it in ice again for half .an hour, and then take the jremage from the mould. Almond Garlands.—T.ake half a pound of march-pane paste, the whites of two or three eugs, some powdered cinnamon and a little flour, knead them into a paste, and ndl them into the form of •sausages with your hand on the table, first strewing the table with almonds minced, but not very fine ; so tluu they mriy adliere to the sausages, which ouuht to be about the size of your finger; then form them into rings or garlands of what size you please, fixing the ends together with water; place them on paper, and bake them in a quick oven until they are of a clear brown colour. Al.mond {Biller) petite gdieaux roy- aux.*—Pound six drachtns of bitter al- monds, strain them through a sieve, and mix them in an earthen vessel, with nearly the white of an egg, and six ounces of sugar, stir these with a silver spoon for a few minutes. Take three-quarters of a pound of puff paste, roll it to the thickness of a quarter of an inch, and cut outof it thirty oval cakes (two inches .aiid a half long by two and a quarter wide) pointed at the ends; put on each a quarter of a spoonful of the almond glaze, and with the blade ofa knife spread it equally over the surface for about the eighth of an inch, and then let them stand for half an hour before you put them into the oven, which must lie moderate. If you bake them immediately after putting on the glaze, it wrinkles and shrivels up, which spoils their appearance, as they ought to be ([uite smooth and even; the cakes also require considerable care in the baking ; they should be slightly co- loured on the top and the lower part red- dish. Almond {Bitter) Gennises.*—Blanch two ounces four dr.aclims of sweet, and two ounces and .a half of bitter almonds, pound them to a paste and then putthem into the following preparation : blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, and when perfectly smooth, mix them in an earthen pan with six ounces ol flour, the same of powder-sugar, six yolks and twu whole eggs, a spoonful ol brandy and a grain of salt. Stir the whole for six minutes, then add six ounces of butter slightly warmed but not melted ; work the butter well into the paste for four or five minutes. Butter two moulds, or paper cases, about nine or ten inches square, pour in yc.irpreparation, smooth it with the blade of a knife and then put them to hake in a moderate oven, first strewing on tliem four ounces of sweet almonds minced and mixed with two ounces of powder-sugar, and .a little white, of egg. When done, rut them into all possible forms, then replace them in the oven to dry; when brittle. Lake them out. let tiiem cool, and decor.atc them to your fancy. Aljiond {Brovii) Gingerbread.—Beat a quarter of .i pound of blanched almonds with thin gum-w.ater, a few dropsollcmon jiiitc, a little powdereti cinnamon, and some gitiger finely grated and seered to give it a brown colour; sweeten .and smooth it well, roll it out thin, add cutA L M (' ) A L M it into squares; dry it in a stove or be- fore the fire. , 1 ir Almonds, Gi^iilugc of,*—Blanch hah a pound of almonds, cut them into four or five slips, lengthways,them with three-eighths of a pound of sugar, sand them when they begin to crackle; then put them on the fire again till they are well mixed together and form a mass, which put on wafer-paper lightly oiled, lay it flat, strew over it cinnamon, sugar, plain or white nonpareils, and then cut it in pieces. Almonds, Gi'illage of* — Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into four pieces longways; put them on the lire in a deep wide pan, with lour ounces of water, and a pound of sugar; when the almonds' crackle, take them from the fire, and with a wooden spoon, stir them nbout to cover them well; add some lemon-peel grated ; cover the fire and put the pan on again, stirring the almonds constantly until they have taken the ca- ramel colour ; then place a layer of «ow- pareil on a dish, spread over it a layer of t\\^ grillage, then the nonpureil9.n& gril- lage alternately, until all your prepara- tion is used. Dry it then in a stove. Almond Hog’s Pudding.—Chop fine a pounU of beef marrow ; blanch and beat fine a pound of sweet almonds with a lit- tle orange flower or rosewater; grate fine half a pound of white bread, wash and pick half a pound of currants, a quarter of a pound of sugar, equal quantities of mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon, making altogether a quarter of an ounce, and half a pint of sack or mountain wine. Mix all well together, with half a pint of good cream and the yolks of four eggs. Fill the guts half full, tie them up and boil them for a quarter of an hour, and prick them as they boil to keep the guts Irom bursting. The currants may he left out, in which case a quarter of a pound more sugar must be added. Ahi^ionn jeeingfor Bride Cake.—The whites of six egg.=, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, a pound of Jordan almonds blanched and pounded with a little rose water; mix altogether and whisk it well for an hour or two, lay it over the cake and put it iit the oven. Almond Knots.—Take two pounds of almonds, and blanch them in hot water ; beat them in a mortar, to a very fine • paste, with rose water, be careful to keep them from oiling. Take a pound of donhle-refined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve, leave out some to make up the knots, put the rest in a pan upon the. fire, till it is scalding hot, at the same time have the almonds scalding hot in another pan; then mix them together with the whites of tliree eggs beaten to froth, and let it stand until it is cold; then roll it with some of the sugar left out for that purpose, and lay them in platters of oaper. They will not roll into shape, therefore lay tliem as well as may be,and bake them in a alow oven. Al.mond {Bitter) Macaroons.*—Take a pound of bitter almonds, rub them well in a clean cloth, and beat tliein to a paste with the whites of tliree or four eggs; then put them into ati earthen pan with three pounds of powder-sugar, mix them together well, and if the paste should be too dry, moisten it with white of egg. Drop it on sheets of paper in lumps about the size of a walnut, and bake them in a close, gentle oven. Almond {Sweet) Macaroons.*—Are. done in the same way. But two pounds of sugar are sufficient for a pound of al- monds. Almond Milk.*—Take six ounces of sweet almonds, and a pint of milk, four drachms of orange-flower water, and live ounces of sugar. Blancli and pound the. almonds to a very smooth paste, moisten- ing them occasionally with a few drops of milk; when your paste crumbles, put it in the milk and mix them well, and boil it till reduced to half, then let it boil up once more; let it cool and serve. Almond Milk, as prepared atMexico.* —Pound blanched almonds as fine as possible, with a small quantity of loaf sugar; keep adding a litile water ivliilst pounding. About twelve almonds care- fully beaten will produce a itiutof mill;. A marble mortar must he used. Almond Rice Milk. {Spanish.)*—To half a pound of rice boiled to a pulp, when the water is drained, add five pints of almond milk; put it in by degrees, stirring it with a wooden spoon whilst boiling slowly, till it is of the consistence of clotted cream. In the last boiling, which should be an hour and a half, at least, from the commencement, add powdered sugar. Almo.nd Mir/itons.*—Blanch an ounce of sweet, and the same of bitter almonds, and dry them in an oven ; when cold, pound them with a little white of egg to prevent tlieir oiling ; then put tliem into an earthen p.an with two ounces of hitter macaroons, five ounces of powdei-sugar, four whole eggs, and a grain of sail; when these are well mi.xed together, add two ounces of butter, lukewarm. Make a prjipcr quantii y of puli’paste, roll it out thill, and cut it into thirty round pieces about two inches and tliree-qnarlers in diameter, and put each of tliese into a tartlet mould buttered ; put the mirli- tons on this, and when all are equallyA L M { A L M !) ftill, cover them with powder-sugar sifted over them tlirough a tairimy ; as soon as tliat is dissolved strew more (but not such fine) powder-sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. Almond Monceaux*—'I'ake half a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into thin sli|)S (lengthways) and roast them on an iron wntil they are of a deep yellow colour, inclining to brown ; beat up the whites of six or eight eggs with a spoon in an earthen pan. Pour over the almonds a pound of sugar finely powdered, four ounces ofcandiedorange peel, the same ot ■candied lemon peel, also cut into thin slips, half a spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, and six or eight cloves pounded; mix these ingredients well in the pan, and place it on paper in little lieaps of a pyramidal form, and bake them in a well-heated oven. Aljionds (bitter) Mosaic Tartlets.*— Pound three ounces of sweet, and one of bitter almonds, to a fine paste, and put it within the tartlets made as directed under that article. Almond Paste.*—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, and soak them in cold water for twelve hours, then dry tliem in a napkin, and pound a quarter of them to a very fine paste with a little water and lemon-juice, pass them through a sieve, and tlien pound the remainder {half a pound at a time). When all are (Jane, mix them witli a pound of sifted sugar; place them over- a gentle fire, stirring it continually, until the paste will flow from the spoon ; then pour it into a mortar, and wlien it becomes luke- warm, pound it again with an ounce of gum-dragon previously dissolved in a glass of water and strained, the juice of two lemons, and a pound of sifted sugar. As soon as your paste is of the proper consistence, take it out anol lay it on tbe slab, sprinkled first witli sugar; divide your paste into three parts, and colour caclt part according to your fancy. The colouring or dyes are made of the same materials as are used for almonds. Almond Paste (to keep six, nr even twelve j/jowf/i6’).*—Blanch and pound a pouml of sweet almonds, moistened occa- sionally with water, to prevent their oil- ing; when well beaten, add halfa pound of fine powdered sugar, and mix tl:e whole into a paste to ttse when you liave occasion. When wanted, mix a piece about ilie size of an egg with three gills of water, and strain it through a napkin. A1.MONDS d III Praline (drieil, pre- .scrvc'l nr burttl).*—i^ pound o< the best almonds must be washed in cold water; when thoroughly dry, put them into a preservilJfcj pitii wiili a pouiiU of augtu* and a pint and a lialf ef water, keep them on the fire, stirring them continually, until they crackle and fly about, and the sugar begins to colour, st'r them about gentlj; to gather the sugar, and leave them in the pan to dry about two bouts, in a stove or any moderate heat. Almonds d la Praline Rouge.—Vre.- pare them as above until they tiave ta- ken the sugar and are ready to be taken oirthe fire, put tlie alrnonds’upon a sieve with a dish under, take tlie sugar that drops,and put it into thesame pan, add- ing a little fiesh ; refine it till it eoinea to the twelfth degree (uu cusst), then take cochineal, colour sufficient to tinge the almonds, and put them therein; give tiicin a few turns over the fire in the su- gar, and finish as at first. Almond Pudding (to bake).—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds and four bitter ones, in warm water; pound them in a marble mortar with two spoonsful of orange flower water, and two of rore water, and a gill of sack ; mix in four grated Naples biscuits, three quarters of a pound of melted butter ; beat eight eggs, and mixtbem witli aquart of cream boiled, grate in half a nutmeg, add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; mix all well together; make a thin puli'paste, and lay all over the dish. Pour in the ingredients, and hake it. Alm()nd Pudding (baked).—Steep four ounces of crumbsof bread sliced in a pint and half of cream, or grate the bread; then beat half a pound of blanched al- monds very fine, till tliey become a paste, with two tea-spoonsful of orange flower water; beat up the yolks of eiwht eggs, and the whites of four; mix all well to- gether ; put in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and stir in three or four ounces of melted butter; put it over the fire, and keep stirring until it is thick; lay a sheet of paper at the bottom of a dish, and pour in the ingredients. To bake lialf an hour. A hMonn Pudding, as prepared at Mexico. —One pound of blanclied almonds, one pound of pnwder-sugar, twelve yolks of eggs and oiglit whites well beaten to- gether, and baked in a flour and water crust. This is also used for puffs. Almond Pudding.*—Blancn and beat a pound of sweet almonds with a little rose water, mix a pound of bread grated, a nutmeg, halfa pound of butter, and the yolks of six eggs, boil a pint of cream co- loured with a very little SHll'ron.add it to the eggs and a little flour, knead it well, .and then put in the almonds, beating it up till .all is mixed together. Boil it for half an hour in a buttered cloth. Almond Puffs.—Blanch iwoounccsof) A L M A L M ( swreet almonds, and beat them fine with orange flower water, whisk the whites of three eggs to a high froth, strew in a htUe sifted sugar, mix the almonds with the sugar and eggs, and add niore sugar till as thick as paste. Lay it in cakes, and hake it on paper in a cool oven. AhyionD Piir6e-*—Boil the crumb of a very light roll in a pint offish broth, boil it slowly until nearly dissolved, then mix in with it a few sweet and two bitter almonds, and three yolks ofeggs pounded, and moistened with the same broth. Stir altogether, pass it through some bunting, diluting it vvith more broth when too thick. ALMONo/v/ce.—Blanch sweet almonds, and pound them in a marble mortar; mix them in a little boiling water; press them as long as there is milk in the al- monds, adding fresh water every time ; to every quart of almond juice, put a quarter of a pound of rice and two tea- spoonsful of orange flower water; mix them all together, and simmer it over a slow charcoal fire ; stir it repeatedly, and when done, sweeten it at pleasure ; serve it with beaten cinnamon strewed over. Almond (Bitter) Rolls.*—Blanch and pound eight ounces of almonds (five_ of i sweet and three of bitter) to a very fine paste; then place eight ounces of flower on your slab; make a hole in the middle, and put into it eight ounces of powder- sugar, the yolks of four eggs, .and a grain of salt; mix them all well together into a firm smooth paste ; roll it out and cut it into four equal parts ; roll each piece to I the same length; cut them into nieces 1 about the size of a walnut, and form them to the shape of a wild turnip, and as you i do them put them on a baking-tin lightly buttered; dorez them and bake them of a proper colour in a moderate oven. When theyare taken from the oven, let them stand a little while to dry. AmioND (Bitter) Souffle Frau^ais.*— Pound four ounces of bitter almonds to a line paste as usual, then throw them into boiling milk (nine glasses) and three- quarters of a pound of sweet macaroons ; cover this for a quarter of an hour, and then strain it through a napkin. In the mean time wash a pound of Carolina rice ! in several waters, warm; put .some cold ' water into a saucepan, and when it has , boiled a few minutes, add to it the rice . in a sieve and the infusion of almonds; when well boiled, put the saucepan on 0 hot ashes, that the rice may hurst gra- I dually. In three-quarters of an hourput j( to it ten ounces of powder-sugar, three f quarters of a pound of good fresh butter, and a pinch of salt, stir them in well, put jj Iresh cinders under the saucepan, and let it boil gently for an hour; then, if the- rice is quite tender, press it through a hotting as for puree, and put it again on liotasiies to keep it hot. Whip up six- teen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and when pretty firm, take your rice cream from the fire and stir into it the sixteen yolks ; this mixture should be of tbe con- sistenceofere/nepatissiere, \i\i be thicker dilute it withalittleliquid whipped cream. Take at first a quarter of the whipped eggs, stir it as lightly as possible, then, by degrees mix in the rest. _ Have ready a crouslade eleven inches in diameter, and three inches and three-quarters high, but very thin ; wrap round this three sheets of buttered paper,and bake it; when your preparation is thoroughly amalga- mated, pour it into croustade, and bake for about two hours or two hours and a half in a moderate oven. When nearly ready to serve, place hot cinders on a large baking plate, take the souffle from the oven, put it on them, and while there cover it with poivder-suear, and glaze it with the salamander. Carry it to the dining-room as quick as possible, remove it carefully from the cinders, and place it in the dish with a napkin under- neath, take away the buttered papers, and the souffle is then ready. Almond Milk Soup.*—Take half a pound of sweet almonds, put them op the fire with some water until near boiling, then blanch and throw them into fresh water; drain and pound them. Boil a pint of water, a little sugar, salt, cinna- iiion, coriander, and lemon peel, for a quarier of an hour, and rub the al- monds through a sieve to this. Lay some slices of toasted bread in a dish, and pour the milk of almonds on it, us hot as possible without boiling. Ah'Mom)(!/ellow)Sweeimeafs.*—Blanch a pound ol sweet almonds, wash them in cold water, and when quite dry, pound them with a sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs, into a line hut rather stifl’ paste; add to them a pound of powdered sugar and tlie rinds of two lemons grated ; knead the paste well with your hands, first sprinkling the table with sugar. Form the paste into wh.at figures you plesse, such ;is fieur-de-lis, trefoil, &c. each being about the size and weight of a macaroon. Flace tllfem on white paper and on an iron plate, fry them in a mo- derately hot stove. 11 they are of a deep yellow, they are sufficiently done.— These sweetmeats maybe still fuithor nrnainciited in the following manner:— Boil some sugar in orange flower water to the degree called tfraiide plume, and as soon as the awcelmcals areiaken from the stove or oven, wash them over with) A L M ( II A L M a light brush dipped in the syrup ; this will give them a delicious perfume, and they may then be called A Ui^lace. When cold, take tliem from the paper and put them into glasses for the table. Almonds, A In Terra Alicante {Spa- nish).*—Clarify honey, and stir into it as many blanched almomls as you can en- tangle, Leave it to cool. This makes a pretty crystaline ornament for the des- sert ; it is also called Rock of Gibraltar. Almond Tumbles.—Blanch and pound three ounces of almonds vei y fine, when almost beaten enough, take the white of an egg beaten to froth, one pound of double refined sugar well beaten, and put it in by degrees, working it into a paste with your hands, roll it out and bake it on buttered plates iu a hot oven. Almond TVafers.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and pound them, add a pound of pmvder-sugar, a pinch of orange-flowers put them into a basin, and moisten them with a sufficient quantity of whites of eggs to enable you 10 spread the paste on wafer paper with the blade of a knife (the wafer paper must be rubbed with virgin wax and sweet oil); lay the preparation on as thin as possible; chop some sweet almonds very small,mix them with sugar,and strew them over the wafers and put them into a hot oven; when about half baked, take them out and cut them in squares; re- place them a minute in the oven, take them out again, and press them on a stick to give them the proper form ; as soon as they are cold,put them on a sieve. Just before they are served they should be slightly warmed. ALMONDf^-reew) Compoteof.*—Take the peel very carefully from your almonds, and put them with water on the fire till they are tender ; then take them off' and add a little more water; when nearly cold put them on the fire again, but do not let them boil; as soon as you find tlie head of a pin will penetrate easily, they are then sufficiently done, and may be thrown into cold water; and when the fruit is quite cold,drain them. In the mean time put some clarified sugar on the fire, and when it boils put iu thealmonds; boil them in the sugar about twenty times, then remove them, and let the almonds stand to take the sugar; in about two hours'time putthem on the fire again, and boil them up a dozen times ; after which, take them off', skim, and let tlicm cool. When quite cool drain and put the fruit in a comjioticr. it the sugar sliould not be sufficiently done,boil as much more as y ou may think necessary ; squeeze in the juice of an orange, boil it once .ag.ain. and when nearly cold strain it through a cloth into the compotier over the al- monds. Almond {green) Marmalade.*—Take the down from green almonds as below ; boil them till tender, throw them into cold water, and tlien set them to drain; break and pass them tlirough a sieve ; put the marmalade on the fire to dry it, and for each pound put a pound of sugar and half a pint of water; boil and skim it, until, on dipping your finger first in tlie cold water, then in the sugar, it comes off clean ; wlien you put it in the water again, add the marmalade; heat, hut not boil, both together, and then put it into pgts. Almond {green) Nonpareils,—Drain some green almonds that have been pre- served in brandy; dip them one by one in sugar prepared OK cassd, and roll tliem in white, or any other coloured nonpa- reils, and dry them in a stove, or gentle oven. Almond (green) Pickle.*~'Ro\\ vine- gar according to the quantity of pickle you wish to make ; skim it well, and add to it mace, nutmeg, ginger, and pepper ; cut your almonds, (which should be quite young and soft,) iu halves; putthem into jars, and pour the vinegar over them. Take care to have in each jar sufficient liquor to cover the almonds. ALyioan{green)Preserved.*—Put some water into a saucepan, with two handsful of br.vn, and when it has boiled up twice, throw in some green almonds; let them hoil up once, then take them out with a skimmer, and rub them well in your liands to take off' the down ; as you do this, throw them into cold water; then boil them in water till, on pricking them, a pin easily enters ami they shrink : then clarify some sugar, a pound to a pound of fruit; boil up tlie syrup four or five successive days, tnorning and evening, without the fruit, which you leave to drain upon a sieve ; lastly, put the fruit into a pan, and when rather more than lukewarm, pour the syrup over it; when they look very green they are sufficiently done. Almond {green) Tarts.—Pull almonds from the tree belore they shell; scrape oft the down with a knife, and put them into a pan with cold water as fast as they are done; then put them into a skillet with more spring water, over a very slow fire, till theysimmer. Change thewater twice, and let them lie in the last till tender; put them between two dry cloths and press tliem dry. Make a syrup with double lefined sug.ar, and put them to simmer a little; repeat this the next day; putthem in a stone jar and cover them close, as they turn black it exposed11 A N C A N C to the air. The yellower they are when in the water, the greener tliey will be alterwards. Put them into a sugar crust, lay the liil close, and cover them with syrup, and bake in a moderate oven. Almond {green) Tarts may also be made like any other fruit tart, but the almonds must be very young and cut in half. Almond (green) P/cWe.—Boil vinegar according to the quantity of pickle you want, scum it and put in salt, mace,gin- ger, Jamaica and white pepper, put it into a jar, and let it stand till cold ; then add the almonds cut in half, letting the liquor cover them. AMBER Pudding.—Put a pound of butter intoasaucepan,withthree-qu<'irters of a pound of powder-sugar; when melted and well mixed together, add the yolks of fifteen eggs beaten, and as much can- died orange beaten to a_paste as will give colour and flavour to it. Line the dish with paste for turning out. and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven- It may be eaten hot or cold. AMIENS Pie.—Make a paste with about half a pound of flour, apound of but- ter,ealt, and warm water, and let it stand two hours before you use it. Truss a couple of ducks as for boiling; singe them well on a charcoal fire, and lard them with bacon rolled in pepper, salt, laurel powder, thyme, basil, nutmeg, cloves, cinnamon, and coriander ; make a pretty thick raised pie, and cover the ducks in it with slices of bacon and plenty of good butter; finish the pie, and bake it about three hours in a middling oven, then let it cool some time: mix three or four spoonsful of rirhjelly btoth,with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, and one spoon- ful of good brandy; boil these up toge- ther, and when the pie is about fialf cold, pour in the sauce, shake it well to dis- perse the gravy properly. Tlie ducks should be stewed a la braise before they are put into the pie. ANCHOVI ES.*—Wash half a dozen an- chovies, and take the meat from the bones; cut them into four fillets, place them on a dish with some sweet herbs, cut small; and the yolks and whites of hard eggs, also cut small. Anchovy Puller.*—Wash your ancho- vies carefully, take out the bones, and dry ' them ; then pound them in a mortar un- d til they are reduced to a paste ; and mix 11 this paste with double the quantity of fl fresh butter. Anchovies (Essence of).—Apound of the best anchovies, two quarts of water, jl two bay leaves, some whole pepper, a ■fi little scraped horse-radish, a little thyme. two blades of mace, six shallots chopped small, a gill of port wine, half the rind of a lemon, a gill of catsup ; boil them together for twenty minutes, then rub them through a tammy with a Wooden spoon. When cold, put it into pint bot- tles, cork them close, and keep in a dry place. Anchovies (Farce fine of).*—Clean, take out the salt and bones from as many large anchovies as will aflbrd you ten ounces of fillets, which simmer in four ounces of butter, with two spoonsful of sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and five drachms of.-picedsalt. When cold, pound the anchovies for ten minutes with six ounces of milk panada ; after that, add to them the butter and herbs, pound them together for five minutes longer; then put in four ounces of cr.ay-fish butter and the yolks of three eggs : pound them with the I eat of the ingredients well, and then put it aside (or use. Anchovies (FWerf).—Make a paste of flour, a spoonful of oil, and a little white wine; take care that the paste is not too wet: having taken the salt from the an- chovies, dip them in the paste, and fry them of a good colour. Anchovies in Moulds.—Rub the inside of your moulds with butter, cut the an- chovies in narrow slips and soak them ; lay them in the moulds with well sea- soned farce, aad the breast of a roast fowl cut in slips, and bake them ; turn them into a dish with a little cullis sauce under them. Anchovy Omelet.*—Wash the salt from a dozen anchovies, and hay them in cold water for a quarter of an hour ; cut them in slips, and place them on thin slices of bread fried in oil. Beat up a dozen eggs and season them well, put some olive oil in a frying-pan. and when it begins to boil, put in half the egg.s to form the omelet; when done, place it on a dish, and lay the anchovy toast on it; then form a second omelet with the rest of the eggs, and put it over the toast. Serve, with any sauce you please. Anchovies tcilh Parmesan. — Soak your anchovies well, and split each into four parts: cut some bread to tlie same shape and size, and fry it: put a little cullis iw the dish with chopped parsley, shallots, and grated parmesan ; place the bread in this, and lay the anchovies on it. Pour over it a liiile cullis, and add a little lemon-juice, cover it with bread- crumbs and parmesan, and bake of a good colour. Anchovies (Petits plitfs o/).*—Poll out two-thirds of three-quarters of a pound of pull pasteinto two thin layers, and cut them with a round paste-cutler, about twoAND 12 A N G inches wide; take up tlie cuttings, put them in the remainder of the paste, roll it out thin as before, place them on a baking- tin, slightly wetted, a quarter or half an inch apart; moisten tliem a little, and lay on each some farcefine of anchovies ; wash and scrape as many fillets of anchovies ss you \\nxepelits patis, roll them into little halls, and place one on every then lay over it the puff-paste, and press it down with another paste-cutter, hall an inch less in diameter than tlie former; turn tip the edges of the paste, dnrez them highly, and bake them of a reddish colour in aquick oven. Anchovy Powder.—Pound the fish and rub them through a sieve, make into a paste with dried flour ; roll it into thin cakes, and dry them before a slow fire. Pound it very fine, and put into well- corked bottles ; it will keep a long time. Anchovy Salad.*—Dress a young cos-lettuce, as usual, garrii.shed with eggs boiled hard and sliced, and herbs, &c. cut small. Add a dozen of anchovies well cleaned and cut in slips. Anchovies Stuffed.*—Split, wash, and take the bones from the anchovies, and fill them with a gooA/arce ; dip them in a batter and fry of a good colour. Anchovy Sauce.—Toabout halfapint ofjnelted butter, put two table-spoonsful of good essence of anchovies, with the juice of half a lemon. Serve very hot. Anchovy Sauce au Icnrie.*—Reduce some sauce Espagnole., and jVst before you want it for table, put into it a piece of an- chovy bit tier, about half the size of an egg, and some lemon-juice ; take care that the butteris warm, and keepstirringii, to mix it well with the sauce. If you should have no Espagnole, any brown sauce you please may be used. Anchovy Saube au heurre.*—Wash some anchovies, take out the bones, and scale them. When they are quite dry, cut them in pieces, and pound them to a paste, and mix them up with double their weight of fresh butter. To make a sauce of this, put in some Spanish sauce when lukewarm, or some white wine; Slew them together, stirring conti- nually. Lemon juice may he added; strain it; if too thick, add a little coh- ttommie. Anchovy 7'o«s/.*—Cutsomethin slices of hiead r.boutthe length and breadth of a finger; fry them in oil. Place them on a dish, and pour on them a sauce made of oil, vinegar, whole pepper, parsley, scal- lion, and shallots, cut up tegether. Then cut the anchovies into thin slices, and lay them on the toast. ANDAYE Brand*!.*—i\n ounce of bruised aniseed, an ounce of bruised co- riander seed, two ounces of powdered Florence iris, the zestes of two oranges; ut them with three quarts of distilled randy intothealembic bain-marie ; dis- solve two pounds and a half of sugar in two pints and a half of clear river water, add them to the distilled liqueur, pass the whole through a strainer, and put into bottles. ANGELICA Cakes. *—Take fou r ounces of angelica powder, and two pounds of fine sugar. Beat up the white of an egg with a little sifted sugar, until it is of the con- sistence of cream cheese ; dissolve the su- gar in a skillet and skim it; when it has boiled a little, throw in the angelica, and boil the sugar to petit casse\ thea take it from the fire, put in halfa spoonful of the beaten egg, and stir it quickly until the sugar rises, then stop, and when it has fallen again, stir till it rises a second time; it may now be poured into moulds or paper cases, well oiled and sprinkled with sifted sugar. Angelica {essence of) Jelly.—Having washed and well dried two ounces of angelica-roots; cat them in pieces and throw them into boiling syrup, (three quarters of a pound of sugar,) with an ounce of bruised angelica seeds; cover the mixture ciose, and when cold, add to it half a glass of kirscAwasser, and pass it through a tammy ; then filter, and after- wards put to it an ounce of isinglass : stir it lightly with a silver spoon ; pound ten pounds of ice, and put it into a large sieve or pan, place your mould in the middle of the ice, takingcare thatit touches the ice in every' part; pour the jelly into the mould, cover it with a saucepan lid, put ice on that, and let it stand for three hours; after that time have ready a saucepan large enough to take in the mould easily; fill it with water so warm that you can scarcely bear your hand in it; plunge the mould in .'o as to allow the water to passoverthe whole, but as quickly as possible, and then turn the jelly into your dish for table. This Last operation shoiiW be pet formed with great agility. Observe, in making these kinil of jellies, that no tinned or pewter ve.'-sclsor spoons should be used, as they impart a violet tinge to yottr jellies, which ought to be of the colourof the ingredients employed,.as for instatice the above should be a clear light green colour. Asgei.\c\ Liqueur.*—tVash,scrape, and rut in small pieces, twelve ounces of fresh, or halt the quantity of Bohemhan angelica roots, and infuse them for a week in six pints of br.iniiy andoneof water, with a drachm of mare, two drachms of cinna- mon, .and twelve cloves; at the end of that time distil it then dissolve threiA x\ G 13 1 A N I pounds of sugar in three pints of water; mix it with the/igtieier, strain it throu^i a jelly bag, or filter it tlirough paper. Ob- serve, tliat the best brandy for liqiicurs is that which is made at ^Montpelier, as it yields more in distillation than theCog- niac. Take notice also that the first drops which fall from the alembic after it is placed on the stove, must not be mixed with the liqueur. A glass should, there- fore, be placed under the mouth of the alembic to receive them, and when about a quarter of it is filled you may remove it, and place your bottles or mattress. The phlegm, as these droppings are called, are good for nothing. Angelica Paste.—Take young and pithy angelica stalks, boil them till ten- der, drain and press all the water out; beat them in a mortar to a paste, and rub it through a seive. Next day dry it over the fire, and to every pound of paste put a pound of powder sugar. When the paste is hot add the sugar, stirring it till thoroughly mixed, over a gentle fire. Drop i t on plates, dust a little sugar over them, and dry them in a stove. Angelica (preserved).* — Take the stalks of angelica when of a good size,but before they have run to seed ; clear oft' the leaves, and as you cut the stalks into proper lengths throw them into water, and boil them till the stalks are soft; take them from the fire, and put them into cold water ; take off the skin, and again put them into cold water; then drain and put them into an earthen pan, and pour over a suflicient quantity of clarified sugar to float the angelica. In twenty-four hours boil the sugar ten or a dozen times, and when lukewarm pour it over the stalks. Proceed in the same way for foursucceedingdays; after which, drain the stalks, and in the meanwhile boil the sugar (adding more, if neces- sary) to the degree grande perU; put the angelica to this, cover it close, and let it boil fiv- or six times. Take it from j the fire, scum, and put it by in pots. Angelica (preserved dry).*—Proceed as for the liquid, until you have poured the sugar au grand perli over the ange- lica; leave it for a day in the sugar, then drain and dry it on elates, or iron plates, in a stove. Angelica, (Jlatafia o/).*—Take six pints of brandy, a pint of river water, three pounds of sugar, two ouncesof fresh gathered angelica roots, the same quan- tity of angelica seed ; mace and clove, a drachm of each. Wash and dry the roots well, cut them in slices, and put them, with the seeds and spices bruised, into the brandy, to infuse for twenty days ; then strain it, and having added to it the 4 sugar dissolved in river water, filter and bottle your ratafia. Angelica Ratafia.*—Strip the ange- lica stalks of their leaves, and cut them into small pieces, which put into the best brandy ami water, in the proportion of four litres of brandy and two of water to one pound of angelica, and four pounds of sugar to the same quantity; add cloves and cinnamon: let it stand six weeks, then filter and bottle it. Angelica Tart.—Pare and core some good apples, peel angelica stalks, and cut an equal quantity of each into small pieces; boil the apples with lemon peel and sugar, in suflicient water to cover them until reduced to a thin syrup, strain it, and then put it on the fire again with the angelica, for about ten minutes. Lay a paste in the dish, and put layers of apples and angelica alter- nately till full. Fill up with syrup, and bake. Angelica fVater.—Wash eight hands- ful of angelica leaves, cut, and lay them on a table to dry. When quite dry, put them in an earthen pot with a gallon of strong wine lees. Let it stand twenty-four hours, stir it twice in that time, then put it into a warm still or alembic; draw off into bottles, covered with paper pricked in holes, and let them stand thus two or three days. Sweeten it, and when it is settled, bottle, and stop it close. ANISE (small) Biscuits.*—Wash four drachms of starred anise, and dry it in the oven ; work up the yolks of five eggs and a quarter of a pound of powder sugar for about ten minutes ; whip the whites to a strong froth, and mix them lightly with the yolks ; add a quarter of a pound of dry sifted flour and the anise; pour this paste intoa paper case,eleven inches long by seven wide. Bake it in a slow oven for about forty orfiftyminutes,when, if firm, take it out. As soon as it is cold remove the paper, and cut the biscuits into whatever form you please; dry them in the oven until they become brittle. Anise, (Petites BoucMes of).*—Roll out three-quarters of a pound of puff paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it out with a round paste-cutter, two inches in diameter; then with a smaller paste-cutter (say the eighth of an inch less in diameter than the first), cut thirty of these rounds into rings ; collect the cuttings of your paste and proceed in the same way. Moisten the upper side of the rounds to receive the rings, which press on lightly, and as you do them, wet them again slightly. When all your rings are so far done, sprinkle them equally and lightly with sugar, out them on a baking tin, at equalANI AN I ( 14) distances, and bake them in aquick oven. When done, the should be a clear reddish colour, something like caramel sugar. Cover them with the whites of eggs whipped to a strong froth, and on this add red anise,and garnish tliem with cream blanche, white currant jelly, apri- cot or apple marmalade. These houchies may also he done in a similar way with white anise, in which case they should be garnished with red currant jelly, or whipped cream ii la rose. Aniseed Cakes.*—Put in an earthen pan eight ounces of sugar pounded, and the yolks of ten eggs ; stir them together with a wooden spoon for half an hour. In the meantime have the whites of your eggs whipped to a thick snow, and then pour in the sugar and yolks. When tho- roughly mixed, add an ounce of good aniseed, previously washed and dried, and ten ounces of flour; stir the whole gently, and then with a spoon lay it on white paper in cakes about the size of a crown-piece.; sprinkle them with fine sugar, and bake. Remove them from the paper, while hot, with a knife. Anise Croquettes de Verdun.*—Put four ounces of sifted flour, four ounces of powder sugar, and the yolks of five eggs into a small pan, and work them well to- gether for a quarter of an hour ; then add four drachma of anise Uoili, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Lay this preparation (the same as directed for cro- quettes d la Parisienne) upon tins lightly buttered, then mask them with white anise, and let them bake in a moderate oven until they are coloured, then sepa- rate them from each other. Anise petits Dents de Loup de T’er- Put four ounces of sifted flour, our ounces of sugar in powder, and the oiks of five eggs into a small pan, and work them well together for a quarter of an hour ; then add to them four drachms of anise etoil^, picked, washed, and dried in an oven. Put this preparation into tin moulds, in form of a. Jalousie, lightly but- tered, so that the dents de loup as they spread take the form of little naveties, the length and thickness of your little finger; then mask them all over with an ounce of white anise de Verdun. Put them to bake in a moderate oven, until they are of a nice light colour; then se- parate them, take them out of the moulds, ;ind place them on a haking-lin to dry in the oven, to make them crisp. Anise dloilt <1 la Fromage liuvarois.’— Take two drachms of green anise, two drachma of anise and half a drachm of fennel seed, and half a drachm of co- riander seeds ; bruise the whole of them, put them into two glasses o^ scalding milk, in which you have previously dis- solved eight ounces of powder sugar. Let it infuse for one hour, then pass it through a fine sieve or cloth. Then mix with it six drachms of isinglass; place it in your ice mould; as soon as it begins to congeal add to it your fromage a la creme, and finish the same as green wal- nuts a la fromage bavarois. Aniseed Cenoise.'—This is made like the Almond Cenoise, with the addition of a spoonful of green aniseed washed perfectly clean, put, instead of the almond paste, into the preparation; and these are glazed with four ounces of sugar, with red anise strewed over to finish them. Anise {white)Madelaines.'—Grate the zestes of two cedrats, oranges or lemons, upon a piece of sugar; then crush and mix it with powder sugar; weigh nine ouncesof itand put into a saucepan, with half a pound of sifted flour, four yolks and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye brandy, and a little sal t; stir this mixture with a spatula, and continue stirring exactly one minute after the whole is well incorporated, but no longer. Then cla- rify ten ounces of butter, taking care to skim it whenever the milk rises to the top; when quite clear pour it into another saucepan ; as soon as it is a little cooled pour it into a madelaine mould, then turn it out of this into a second mould, and so on until eight moulds are but- tered ; then heat the butter again, and fill eight more moulds, and proceed in this manner until thirty-two moulds are thus prepared, which must be kept up- right that the butter may be preserved in each. Put the remainder of the butter to the paste, which place over a gentle stove, stirring it constantly to prevent its sticking to the saucepan, and as soon as your preparation becomes liquid (this the melted butter will very soon effect.) re- move it from the fire, and put a spoonful of it into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven; in about five-and-twenty or thirty minutes try if they arc firm, and if they are also a good colour take them out. Then boil a quarter of a pound of fine sugar to cqssi, glaze the madelaine* oil one side by dipping it into the sugar, and as you take each cake out strew over it either red or white anise. Aniseed, (Oil o/).*—Is made like ani- seed water, the only diflerence is. that an additional pound of sugar is necessary to m.ake the syrup. Anise, (Petits Pains qf).'—Put two lasses of water .and two ounces of fresh utter into a stew-pau. and when the li- quid boils taKe it from the fire, and mix with it six ounces o( sifted flour; amalga- mate it thoroughly, so that it may be(15) APP C 2 ANl > quite free from lumps; then dry it over the fire. Take it out of the saucepan, and add to it two egys, and two ounces oj powder sugar; mix iliem well in, and then put in two more eggs and tlie zeste of a lemon minced fine ; when these are also well incorporated, add another egg or two, if the paste (which should be ra- ther firm) will bear them. Sprinkle your paste slab with flour, cut the paste into pieces, each the size of a walnut; roll these with as little flour as possible, to about three inches long, and as you roll them place them on a baking-tin, two inches apart; dorez and bake them in a tolerably warm oven till they are firm. Then cut some anise into fillets, boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to casse, and the moment it reaches that degree set it by the side of the fire that the sugar may not lose its whiteness; dip the top and one side of each petit pain in the sugar as quick as possible, and as you take them out, strew the anise over them lightly. Red ■anise is also used for these petits pains. Axiseed Ratifia.*—To make a quart of this liqueur, boil a pound of sugar with a demisetier of water, until the sugar is quite clear; then heat another demi- setier of water, and put in it three ounces of anise; take it from the fire before it boils ; let it stand a quarter of an hour, and then pour it with three pints of bran- dy into the sugar; mix all well together, and then pour into a vessel, which must be closed tight, and placed in the sun. Let it stand three weeks, and then bottle it. Anise Rolls."—Pound four ounces of sweet almonds in the usual manner, and make a paste according to the directions for almond rolls, with a quarter of a pound of flour; the same of powder sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a spoonful of tlie infusion of green anise, and a grain of salt. Cast the paste, roll and finish as in the above-mentioned recipe ; but before they are baked dorez and cover them with wliite Vendun anise. The ingredients for these rolls are a quarter of a pound of almonds, the same of flour, ditto powder sugar, two yolks of eggs, four ounces of white anise, and a drachm of infusion of green anise. Aniseed f-Vater." Choose eight ounces of new green anise, sift it well to free it from the dust, and then infuse in six pints of brandy, with the zestes of three lemons, and half an ounce of cinna- mon ; in a week’s time distil it over a moderate fire, put a pint of waterinto the alembic; take care to collect the phlegm Mfore you draw olf the aniseed water. Dissolve three pounds of sugar in three pints of Water. As the anise contains an acid salt, which renders this liqueur milky, the following proceeding is neces- sary :—Reserve a pint of the water from that in which you dissolved the sugar, and mix with the white of three or lour eggs, well whipped, and while the syrup is hot put to it this egg water and the aniseed water; stir it over the fire until the whole is hot without boiling: then put it into a glass jar, cork it well, and let it stand; the next day bottle and filter it. ANISETTE de Bordeaux." — Take two ounces of green aniseed, half a pound of aniseed, two ounces of coriander, and the same of fennel seeds. Bruise, and put them, with sixteen pints of brandy, into an alembic bain-marie. Then dis- solve thirteen pounds of sugar in two quarts of river water, which must be put to your liqueur when distilled. Filter and bottle it. APPLES.*—Cooks,in choosyigapples for culinary purposes, shoulu'always be guided by the weight, the heaviest being always the best; and those are particu- larly to be taken, which, upon being pressed by the thumb, yield with a'slight cracking noise. Large apples possessing these qualities should be taken in pre- ference to small ones, as there is less waste in peeling and coring. The follow- ing is a good selection of large kitchen apples, arranged in the order of their maturity:— Manx Codlin, called also Irish Pitcher, and Irish Codlin. Hawthornden. Hoi land bury Pi ppin,called also Kirke’s Scarlet Admirable. Wormsley Pippin. Blenheim Orange, called also Wood- stock Pippin. Dutch Codlin. Beauty of Kent. Dumelow’s Seedling, called also Wel- lington. Yorkshire Greening. Royal Russet. _ For very early use the Carlisle codlin IS the best, but it is not large ; for very late use the London pippin, the French crab, and the Norfolk beaufin, are valu- able : the last is well known, as furnish- ing the dried apples, which are called beefins. Apples. Black-caps.—Divide twelve large apples in halves, core them, and place them on a thi n patty pan or mazarine, quite close to each other, with the flat side downwards ; squeeze a lemon into two spoonsful of orange flower water, which pouroverthem; shred finesome le- mon peel, throw it over them, and grateAPP APP (16) fine su(?ar all over. Set them in a quick oven and bake them half an liour. Vv hen served, strew fine sugar all over the dish. Appi.es, (Black-cap o/).—Pare them, lay them in your pan, strew a few cloves over them, a little lemon-peel cut very small, two or three blades of cinnamon, and some coarse sugar; cover tlie pan with brown paper, set it in an oven with the bread, and let it stand till the oven is cold. Apples, to bake whole.—Put some sound and well chosen apples into a pan, with a small proportion of cloves, a little lemon-peel, some brown sugar, a glass or more of red wine, according to the quantity of fruit; put them into a quick oven, and bake them at least one hour. The sugar to be limited according to the quality of the apples. Apples a%i henrre., with Apple Jelly.*— Take out the cores and turn fifteen small red apples, and boil them twice in six ounces of^.clarified sugar. Then peel twelve rerineting apples, and cut them into quarters. Havingreduced the syrup to a souffld, put in your renneting apples, with two ounces of lukewarm butter, and one-fourth of a pot of apiicotmarmalade. Mix the whole well together, and boil them the same as in the receipt for apples au beurre d la minute. Whilst they are boiling, take your small red apples, and cut each of them in half; then put them into a mould (in the form of a dome,) lightly buttered, afterwards filling up the mould with the apples which were boiled in the butter ; you then.turn your mould on a dish, after- wardscarefully removing it. Then stick in the half of each of your small red apples, a fine cherry, or a preserved ver- .iuice seed, and mask your entremet with jelly made with Rouen apples. Then serve. Apples au beurre with Cream.*— Peel, take out the cores, and cut into quarters, tn enty renneting apples ; boil ten of them with sugar, &c. the same as in the receipt of apples au beurre d la minute, adding two spoonsful ol fine su- gar, two spoonsful of apricot marmalade, and three of butter, made lukewarm. Make the remaining ten apples into mar- malade, adding two ounces of fine sugar, and two spoonsful of apricot marmalade ; then put the apples which were boiled with the butter in a mould, (the form of a dome,) arranging them in such a man- ner as to leave a space all up the centre of your mould ; then mask them \vith your marmalade, which should be first strained through a sieve, tlien fill up the space which you have lelt in the mould with any sort of boiling cream pitissHre you please. Place a dish on your mould turn it quickly over, and take it off with great care; then lightly mask your apples with a little cream, the same as what you put into your mould. Strew over the whole some crushed macaroons. Apples au beurre, with Maearoons.*— This entremet is made exactly the same as apples au beurre with apple jelly, only instead of masking with apple jelly, you must mask with apricot marmalade, and strew yom entremet a.\\ over with macca- roons cut extremely small. Apples au beurre d la minute.*—Peel four-and-twetity renneting apples, and cut them into quarters, and toss them up in a stew-pan with six ounces of sugar in powder, (over which should be grated the zest of an orange,j four ounces of lukewarm butter, and the fourth of a pot of marmalade. Then place your stew-pan upon the stove; put fire on the lid. VVhen the apples, are done pour them out upon a dish ; pick out the best quar- ter and put them into a buttered mould, six inches in diameter and four in height. Then pour in the rest of the apple with therestof the ingredients. Placeadisb on your mould, turn it quickly over, and carefully remove it; then mask the surface of your apples with apricot or quince marmalade, or apple or currant jelly, and serve. This dish should be executed as quickly as possible, to prevent the apples from getting old. When you serve this entremet strew either some pistachio nuts chopped small, or dry currants mixed with pounded sugar, over it. Pears may be prepared in the same manner. Ai'Ple Cake.*—Pare and core a dozen apples, and make them into marmalade, with the zeste of a lemon and a little cin- namon, and pass them through a bolting; put them into a stew-pan, with a spoon- ful of potatoe flour, half a pound of su- gar, and two ounces of butter: dry it over the fire, and when cold add to_ it six eggs, stir them well in, and having buttered a mould, pour your preparation into it, and bake it in aslowoven ; when done, turn it in a dish and serve it. Apples, Charlotte of.* (See Charlotte.) Apple Cheesecakes.* Pare, ,core, and boil twelve apples with sufficient water to mash them ; beat them very smooth, add six yolks of eggs, the juice of two lemons, and some grated lemon-peel, half a pound of fresh butter beaten to a cream, and sweetened with powder sugar, beat it in with the apples. Bake in a puflTcrust and serve open. Apples, Compote.*—Cut some applee in half, core them, prick the skins with17 APP AP P a knife and throw them into cold water ; then put them into a pan with some da- rifled sugar, and stew them gently till tender; place the apples in a dish, and pour the syrup through a sieve over them. ArPF.ES, (Compote of). —Pare and cut half a dozen fine apples in half, and put them into a pan with a little water and lemon-juice; then clarify half a pound of sugai-, and when you have skimmed it put in your apples, and tlie juice of a lemon ; turn the apples frequently. As soon as you find the fork will penetrate them, they are sufficiently done, and may be taken out ; strain and reduce the syrup ; strain it again, and ihen pour it over your apples, which may be served either hot or cold. Garnish with the peel of a very red apple, cut into various devices, and laid on the apples. Apples, fVhole.*—The pi'oceeding is the same as the last, except that the apples, when pared, are not divided, and the cores are taken out with a piercer. Apples, Stuffed with Apricots.*— Choose ten fine sound apples, and with an apple-scoop pierce out tlie cores and great part of the pulp, taking care that the apples preserve their firmness ; then pare and tlirow them into cold water, after which boil them as above directed ; when soft take out the apples carefully, arrange them in the compotier, and fill each with apricot marmalade, covering the holes with round pieces of lemon- peel, cut extremely thin ; in the mean while clarify and boil the syrup \.opetit lisse, and when it has cooled a little pour it over the apples. Apples, (Croquettes of).*—Prepare your apples for Appte Cake, divide it into small pieces, roll them into balls, and dip them into an omelet; cover them with bread crumbs, and fry them ; as soon as they are of a good colour take them out, sprinklesugar over, and serve them immediately. Apples e>i Croustade.*—Form some croFFsWe (raised crust) in a basket seven inches in diameter and thi'ee in height; line the basket with buttei’ed papei', and fill it with flour of beef suet chopped; then ornament it, gild it, and let it bake to a nice light colour ; when it is baked take out the flour or suet and the papei', and half fill the basket with apple mar- malade, (thirty apples made into mar- malade, the same as in the receipt for Apples Meringuies in form of a Hedge- hog). Then peel, take out the cores, and turn eight apples ; boil them quite white, and then fill up the place of the core with apricot marmalade, and put them in the marmalade on your basket, placing one in the centre of the basket, and the other seven round it; filling up the spaces between with more apple marmalade, arnanging it in such a way that your apples are half encrusted in the marmalade; place upon the top of each apple a fine cherry, then mask your entremet with apple jelly, which gives itabeautjful transparent appear- ance. Serve this enti'emet either hot or cold, and garnish with apricot marma- lade. Apple Custard, loith butter and ce- drat.*—Pare and cut a dozen fine apples into quarters ; put them into a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of sugar, upon which you have grated the zeste of a cedrat. Half boil the apples, and then let them cool. In the mean time roll out some pufl-paste and cut it round, (about eleven inches in diameter,) turn up the edges two inches and put it on a baking-tin ; pinch upon ; decorate this lightly, and place in it the apples, arranging those quarters which are most done in the form of a crown ; then pour in the butter and sugar, in which your apples were done ; take the remaining quarters and place them care- fully on the crown, so as to make a se- cond on that. Fix a strong paper, well buttered, round your custard, and put in a hot oven for three-quarters of an hour; then remove the paper, (^ores the crust lightly, and let it remain in the oven a few minutes longer. Sift the sugar over the crust, and glaze it. When it should be sent to table, mask it with apple, curi-ant or apricot marmalade. Serve it hot. Apple Custard ct la Portugaise.*— Take thirty fine apples, and pierce out the cores of ten of them which are of an equal size; pai-e and trim them neatly, and boil them in six ounces of sugar till pretty firm. Peel and cut tlie remaining apples very small, and put tliein into the above syrup; shred the rind of an orange, and mix with them ; stir the whole con- stantly to prevent their sticking to the pan ; when sufficiently done rub the marmalade through a horse-hair sieve. Prepare the crust as before mentioned, but dress the aides a little higher ; mix two spoonsful of apricot marmalade witli that of your apples, and then put four spoonsful of it into the custard ; place the whole apples, (having put apricot marmalade in the ^ilace of the cores,) and then add the remainder of the apple mar- malade, taking care not to cover the apples with it. Finish as above. At the instant of serving it mask it with apple jelly, apricot or quince marmalade C 3APP ( 18) APP cherry juice or verjuice. Garnish the top of each apple with a cherry or ver- juice-berry. Serve this hot or cold. Apple Dionplmgs.*—Choose six or eight good sized baking apples, pare them, roll out some good paste, divide it into as many pieces as you have apples; roll and cut two rounds from each, put an apple on one piece and put the other over ; join the edges neatly, tie them in cloths, and boil them. Apple £>u?nplings (Baked.)—Make them in the_ same way, but instead of tieing them in cloths lay them in a but- tered dish and bake them. Apples (dried or baked, or tapies).— Choose the clearest of baking apples, prick them rather deep with a pointed knife in several places, and put them in a moderate oven upon a baking plate; when half done squeeze them pretty flat with the hands, strew them on both sides with powder sugar, and put them again into a soaking oven, with some more sugar over them. Keep them in a dry place. Apples Festooned, or en Farbalat.— Peel some golden pippins, core them whole, and stew them to three parts with sugar and a little water ; make the syrup pretty rich to clog to the apples; wrap them round with a thin paste, cut with a paste-cutter, and make knots or flowers with the same paste to put on the top of the apples; rasp some sugar over, and bake a very short time. Apples, (a Floating island of.)—Bake or scald eight or nine large apples; when cold pare and pulp them through a sieve, beat this up with fine sugar; put to it the whites of four or five eggs that have been beaten with a little rose water ; mix it a little at a time, and beat it till it is light; heap it on a rich custard or on jelly. Apple Fool.—Stew apples as for goose- berry fool, and then peel and pulp them, prepare the milk, &c. and mix as be- fore. Apples la Franginane.—Peel and rore a dozen apples, slice, them into a deep dish, over which shake some powder sugar, thinly spread it over with apricot jam and very thin slices of fresh butter over that; mix an ounce of potatoe flour with a pint of cream,a small bit of butter and sugar to sweeten it; stir it over the fire till it begins to boil, then lay it over the apples, and bake in a mo<lerateoven. Apple Froze.—C\\t apples into thick slices,andfry themofaclearlightbrown; take them from the pan, and lay them to drain; they may be pared or not; then make a batter. Take five eggs, leaving out two whites, beat them up with cream or flour, and a little white wine, make it of the consistence of pancake hatter; pour in a little melted butter, mixed with nutmeg and sugar. Let the batter be hot, and drop in the fritters, laying on every one a slice of apple, and then a spoonful of batter on each. Fry them of a pale brown, when taken up, strew double-refined sugar all over them. Apple Fritters.—Beat the yolks of eight eggs, the whites of four, well to- gether, strain them into a pan ; then take aquart of cream, make it moderately hot, and add two glasses of sack, three quarters of a pint of ale, and mix them well together. When it is cool, put to it the eggs, beating it well together, then add nutmeg and ginger grated, salt and flour at pleasure. The batter should be pretty thick ; then put in sliced apples, or scraped pippins, and fry them quick in butter. Apple Fritters.*—Pare, core, and cut your apples into quarters, soak them for two or three hours in brandy, sugar, green lemon-peel, and orange flower water; when they have thoroughly im- bibed the flavour of these ingredients, drain, and put them into a cloth well sprinkled with flour, and shake them so that the flour may adhere all over them ; fry them of a good colour, glaze with sugar and a hot salamander. Apple Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Turn twelve small apples, cut them into halves, and boil them in a syrup, then leave them to cool. When they are cold, make an extremely thin crust with brioche paste. Make a fritter for each half apple, then fry them and finish the same tis Fritters d la Dauphine. Pears cut into quarters, are made in the same manner as the above. Apples AND Almonds PetiVs Gdteaujc.’ —Proceed the same as above till the mar- malade is spread over the under crust, then cover it with almonds cut in fillets, press them in lightly; mask them with powder sugar and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as cold, cut your gdteaux according to your fancy, either round, oblong, lozenge, or crescent-shaped. Apples, Petits Gdteauz bandies.’— Having spread your marmalade on the paste in the usual manner, take some narrow slips of paste, roll them, and lay them about three-eighths of an inch apart diagonally over the marmalade ; mark out the forms of your gdteaux, bake in a moderate oven, and cut them as usual, Apple Marmalade. Petits Gateau.r.' —Make a marmalade of twenty-four apples in the usual way, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of s(19) APP APP pot of apricota, and the seste of a lemon, shred fine. Make your paste, and pro- ceed aa directed for Petits Gateaux glares of apricota. Sprinkle them (when marked) with powder su^ar. Bake them in a moderate oven and finish them. Apple Pettis UAteaux with Pista~ Chios.*—Make an under crust of the same size and thickness_ as directed for peiits gdteaux glads of apricota, and cover It with apple marmalade : when baked, mash the apples with a little apricot marmalade, and strew over a quarter of a pound of pistachio nuts, cut in small pieces, and then put it in the oven again for a few minutes to dry the apricots. When cold cut them into the usual forms. Apples and Pistachios, (Gdleatt Pa- risienne of.*—Prepare and toss up a dozen apples for this gkteau with apples and raisins, with the addition of two ounces of sugar, and instead of the eeste of an orange, grate that of a lemon, and putthreeouncesof pistachio nuts blanch- ed, in the place of the raisins. Proceed in the same manner as directed in that recipe, strewing on the dome of the pistachio and sugar, each nut cut into six pieces; and when the crown is put round the band, place a pistachio nut in the middle of each meringtie, bake it of a light colour in a slow oven, and serve it hot. Apples and Raisins, ( Gdieaux Pari- sienne o/).*—Pare and cut a dozen ap- ples into quarters, and each quarter into four pieces, put them into a pan with four ounces of good fresh butter, two of sugar, over which the zeste of an orange has been grated, and a quarter of a pound of currants well washed ; toss up these ingredients over a moderate fire for a few minutes, and then let them cool. Make a round under crust seven inches in diameter, moisten the edge and put ■ on it a band of puli' paste three-quarters |l of an inch high and half an inch thick ; ! put your apples, &c. in this so as to form a sort of dome, cover them with the putt' paste, taking care that it does not extend beyond the band, upon which it must be pressed down ; wash it over with white of egg, and bake it in a gentle oven for about an hour. When a little cooled, take the whites of two eggs, whipped to ia strong froth,and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar, and mask with it your V gdleau, sprinkling it with sifted sugar; i|l then, having drained and dried some a currants, mix them with sugar,and strew id them over the dome ; form a crown of It small meringues with the remainder of H' the white ol egg, and place it on the It band ; cover them with sifted sugar, and colour the whole of a dear yellow in the oven, and then serve immediately. Apples, Glades.—Peel a dozen of ap- ples and leave the tails ; gore at the op- posite side not quite through, and boil them with half a pint of red wine, some sugar, and a spoonful of brandy, simmer slowly that they may not break; when nearly done, take them out, reduce the syrup to a caramel, and put in the ap- ples, rubbing them all over with it; or you may wrap them in a paste, rasp sugar over, bake a short time, and glaze with a white glaze. Apple .lelly.*—Peel any kind of sharp apples, cut them in slices, and wash them in several waters ; then boil them in a covered pot, with a good deal of water, until it is much reduced and be- comes glutinous; strain it through a thin cloth, measure it, and refine an equal quantity of clarified sugar to the twelfth degree (.au cassd,) and pour the apples into it, boil it up and skim it, boil again until it quits the spoon clear by dropping out of it. Apple (clear) Paste is done in the same way. Apple Marmalade.—Boil some pippins till they begin to get tender, then put them into cold water; pare and core them ; squeeze the pulp through a sieve and put it over the fire ; letting it remain till it becomes very thick; then weigh an equal quantity of fine sugar; boil it till the sugar arises in sparkles which cluster together; put the marmalade to it, and stir them well with a wooden spoon till the apple begin to boil; then take it ofif and when a little cool, put it into pots, but do not cover them till quite cold. Apple Marmalade.*—Pare, core, and cut your apples into small pieces, put them into water with a little lemon-juice to keep them white. Take them out after a short time and drain them. Weigh, and put them into a stew-pan; if for present use, half a pound of sugar will be sufficient for each pound of ap- ples, but if for keeping, double that quan- tity will be necessary. Add to it a stick of cinnamon, and the juice of a lemon. Put the stew-pan over a brisk fire and cover it; when the apples are pulped stir the mixture till of the proper consist- ence ; then put the marmalade into pots. Apples Meringvies.—Put some apple marmalade on a dish, in a pyramid : whip the whites of two eggs to a froth, mix them with two spoonsful of powder sugar and a little lemon-peel chopped ex- tremely small ; decorate your apples with this preparation, glaze them with sugar, and colour them in the oven. Apple Meringue,—Lay a timbale paste i20 APP APP in a tart pan, CRg and prick it all over; and bake it; lay it in a pnrde of apples, and finish with white of egg, as for a la Turque ; serve it hot. Apples Meringuiesinform of a Hedge- hog.'—Choose forty sound renneting apples; take out their cores, and turn fifteen of them, putting them as you t)irn them into cold water, (prepared the same as for the Apples sudcloise for the ponti colonnes); when you have turned eight of the apples, boil them in six ounces of clarified sugar; when they are sufficiently done (which is when they are a little firm) take them out of the syrup and boil the other seven, which you must turn whilst the other eight are boiling; when these are done, add to the remaining syrup the zest of a lemon, and put into it the remaining five and twenty apples nicely peeled and cut into thin slices; cover them closely, and let them boil over a moderate fire until they are quite tender; then beat them with a spatula till they are reduced to a complete marmalade. Then pass it through a sieve and add to it half a pot of apricot marmalade. When it is cold spread two spoonsful of it on a dish, then take nine of the largest of the turned apples (filling up the place of the core with apricot marmalade), and place them on the marmalade in the dish, put- ting apple marmalade between each of them. Then fill up with apricot marma- lade the place of the cores in the other six apples, and put five of them over the nine in the dish, filling up the spaces with more apple marmalade, and place your remaining apple at the top. With the rest of the apple marmalade, mask your apples in such a manner, that the entre- vtet forms a complete dome; then mix up pretty firm the whites of two eggs with two spoonsful of powder sugar; when it is well mixed, mask the apples all over with it as equally as possible, then strew it over with powder sugar, and stick it all over with pieces of sweet almonds, (every almond must be cut into five equal strips), at about the distance of three eighths from each other (the best way of sticking in these strips of almonds is by piercing the meringue of apples with the oint of a silver skewer). Your entremet eing finished, strew over it some powder sugar. Let it bake in a moderate oven ; ten minutes will be sufficient to do it of a nice light colour. Serve it hot. This entremet is very delicious, and is ex- tremely pretty in appearance, but takes a long time to prepare, and requires the greatest attention. 'I'liisdish is generally garnished with pistachio nuts. Apples Miraton.—Pare neatly, and scoop out the cores of a dozen and a half of apples : cut them in very thin slices, have a pan the size of your dish ready ; butter and spread some apricot jam over the bottom; place your apples over one another in a miroton round the pan, and fill up the centre with the odd bits; spread jam and sugar over it, then lay another circle of apples the reverse way to the first row, and so proceed till you have laid five or six rows; spread itover with jam, and bake it in a moderate oven; when done, carefully turn it on a dish, and serve it hot. Apples Pralinies a la vanille. Mosaic Tartlets of.'—Make a marmalade with a dozen apples, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a half clove of vanilla, minced very small; when done and cold, mix with it two spoonsful of apricot marma- lade. Fill your tartlets with this, cover them with the mosaic as directed (see Mosaic Tartlets), and mask them with a quarter of a pound of almonds chopped small, and mixed with two ounces of powder sugar and a very little white of egg ; press these lightly all over the sur- face of your tartlets, strew powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven till of a clear reddish tinge. Apples U la None.—Prepare a dozen and a half of apples as for a la Turque ; let them be cold; roll out a thin tart paste, cut it in lengths of a foot and a half with a jigging iron,and twine it round the apples; fill them with preserved cher- ries and powder sugar, close and egg them over, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve them hot. Apple Paste.'—Pare and core what- ever number of apples you may require, and having boiled them with a little cin- namon and lemon-peel to a pulp, pass them through a sieve ; dry the marma- lade. Weigh it and boil an equal weight ofsugarto;)ef«Ao?t/^; then mix the fruit with it, and boil the whole to a proper consistence; when done put it into moulds, which place in a stove to dry the paste. Apple Pie with Muscadel plums.'— Peel twenty renneting apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into five or .six pieces; toss them in a pan with four ounces of sugar in pouder. (over which should be grated the peel of a lemon), four ounces of butter luke warm, and four ounces of fine muscadel plums. Line the edge of a deep dish with a good puli'paste, then put in your fruit, and cover your dish with a good puli'paste a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, glaze with the white of .an egg.and strew sugar over it. Let it bake an hour in a moderate oven, and serve it hot. Apples d la Portu^aise.'—Pare. core, and cut your apples in hall; place themAPP (21 ) APP in your dish with clarified sugar; cover your fruit with powder sugar, and bake it; when of a good colour ta'ze it out and serve it hot. Apple {Poupeton of).—Pare some good baking apples, take out the cores, and put them intoaskillet; to a pound and a half of apples, put a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a wineglass of water. Do them over a slow fire, add a little cinnamon, and keep them stirring. When of the consistence of a marmalade, let it stand till cool; beat up the yolks of four eggs, and stir in four table spoonsful of grated bread, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter ; then form it into shape, bake it in a slow oven, turn it upside down on a plate, and serve it as an entremet. Apple Pudding {baked).—Pare and uarterfour large apples ; boil them ten- er, with the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when done, none may re- main ; beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon and sugar to taste ; beat altogether and lay in a dish with paste to tu.n out. Apple Pudding d (a Campagne.*— Make a batter with two eggs, a pint of milk, and three or four spoonsful of flour; pour it into a deep dish, and having pared six or eight small apples, place them whole in the batter and bake it. Apvlv Pudding with cherries.*—Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them in quarters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces, put them in a stew- pan, with four ounces of fine sugar, four ounces of butter luke warm, and a pot of fine preserved cherries. Wlien they are warmed through, pour them out upon a dish. Prepare your paste, line your [ mould with it, put in your apples, and i finish the same as in the receipt of Ap- t pie Pudding a Ui Frant^aise. i Apple Pudding a la creme.*—Peel I) and cut into quarters fifteen renneting Ij apples ; stew them with three ounces of h fine sugar in powder, and two ounces of U luke warm butter, when they are just r warmed through, pour them into a dish. r Prepare your paste, line your mould with b It, and put in your apples, arranging H them in such a way that you leave a I space in the middle of your mould, which must be filled up with cream patissiere ) (cold), what sort you please; then finish ^ your pudding according to the receipt of Apple Pudding <i la pyanfuise. Wlien ' ready to serve,mask it with apricot mar- : malade, and strew crushed macaroons all over. Apple Pudding d la Fran^aise.* -To make the entremets properly, it is neces- sary to have a mould in the form of a dome four inches deep and six in dia- meter; this mould and its lid should be pierced all over, the same as a skimmer. There should be a rim round the lid of the dome, that it may cover it so closely that all air may be excluded. Peel six and thirty small red apples, and cut them into quarters; toss them in a stew pan with four ounces of fine sugar (over which must be grated the rind of a Maltese orange),and tour ounces of butter luke warm ; then place the stew- pan over the stove,with fire on the cover; when your apples are done, pour them into adish. Whilst they are cooling, mix up three-quarters of a pound of stiff' paste ; then roll out halfpf it to the thick- ness of the eighth of an inch. With this crust line the inside of your mould,which must be previously well buttered. Be careful that the paste lays q^uite flat, leaving a piece all round the edge of the mould, then put in the best quarters of the apples, and fill up the mould with the rest of the apples and their liquor, then roll out the rest of the paste very thin, into two parts, cut in rounds. Slightly moisten the paste which you have left round the edge of the mould, and place upon it one of the rounds of paste, pinching the edges carefully to- gether, then slightly moisten, and place upon it your other round piece of paste, pinching the edges of this with the others to make it quite close, then cover them with the lid of the mould well buttered. Now, turn your mould over into the middle of a napkin, and tie up the corners of it close over the top of the dome, and put it into a saucepan (nine inches deep and nine wide) full of boiling water ; and let it be kept constantly boiling for an hour and a half j when it has boiled for this time, take it out of the saucepan, untie the napkin, take out the mould, remove the lid, place the mould on a dish, and then carefully take it off’from the pudding; strew fine sugar all over your pudding, and serve it quite hot. Apple Pudding with Muscadelplums,* —Peel and take out the pips of some ren- neting apples, cut them in quarters, and cut each quarter into five pieces. Put them in a stew-pan, with four ounces of fine sugar (over which should be grated the rind of a lemon), four ounces of but- ter, lukewarm, and half a pound of Mus- cadel plums, well washed and stoned. Then place your stew-pan on the fiz-e with fire above. When the apples ai'e warmed through, pour them on a dish, prepare your crust, line your mould with it, putAPP APP (22) in your apples, and finish according to the receipt of Apple Pudding d la Fran- <]aise. Avvi^^iP lidding with Pistachionuts.*— Peel thirty renneting apples, cut them jn quarters, and then cut each quarter into four or five pieces. Tlien put them into a stew-pan with six ounces of fine sugar (over which should be grated the rind of a lemon), four ounces of butter, lukewarm, four ounces of green pista- chio nuts (whole), and ratlier more than half a potof apricot marmalade ; let them stew till they are warmed througii, then pour them into a dish. Prepare your paste, line your mould, put in your ap- ples, and finish the same as in the receipt of Apple Pudding d/a Frangaise. When itis ready to serve, mask it with apricot marmalade, and strew pistachio nuts, chopped small, over it. Avp LES (Pitr^e of).—Peel and core a dozen or more good baking apples ; set them over the fire to stew with some cla- rified sugar and a small bit of lemon peel; when soft stir them well with a wooden spoon, and put in a spoonful of apricot jam ; stir it at times till the jam is mixed and the apples thicken, then rub the whole through a tammy. Apples inRice.*—Scoup out the cores, and pare, very neatly, half a dozen good- sized apples ; boil them in thin,clarified sugar; let them imbibe the sugar, and be careful to preserve their form. Make a marmalade with some other apples, adding to it apricot marmalade, and four ounces of rice previously boiled in milk, with sugar and butter, and the yolks of two or three eggs ; put them into a dish for table, surround it with a border of rice, and place the whole apples in the rice, and marmalade and bake it. When done, pnt into each of the apples a tea- spoonful of any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper. Apples, in Hice*—Pare, core, and cut four or five good apples in quarters; boil some rice in a cloth,and when soft put in the apples, tie it up very loose, and boil ■gently till sulliciently done. Apple Sauce.—V-ave, core, and slice some apples ; put a little water into the saucepan to prevent them from burning; add a bit of lemon peel; when sulliciently done take out the latter. Bruise the ap- ples, putin a bitof butter,and sweeten it. Apples (Snow).—Scoop the core out of half a dozen good apples, and fill them with quince marmalade; stew them ten- der in half a pint of water with some su- gar, lemon peel ; add a little more mar- malade ; pul the apples with the liquor in the dish ; beat the whiles of six eggs to snow with orange flower water, and sugar to the taste ; cover the apples with it and bake them half an hour. Apples. SovJJU Pum/en.*—Make a marmalade of three dozen apples, half a pound of powder sugar, the i)eel of a lemon, and a glass of water; dry it as much as you possibly can, for on that the good appearance of the sovjjU parisien chiefly depends; then put it into a large stew-pan. Whip the whiles of fifteen eggs to a strong froth, with a pound of powder sugar. Mix a quarter of this at first, with the apple marmalade, then stir the whole together, and pour it into fLcrousfade prepared as usual. (See Soef- fle.) Bakeitforan hour in a moderate oven. Serve it as soon as possible after taking it from the oven. Glaze it with powder sugar. Apples, Snidoise formant le pont d cotonnes.*—Peel, and take out the core of forty renneting apples. Take ten of them and cut them into thin slices, and then into long squares ; as you cut them throw them into four glasses of water, in which you have previously put two ounces of sugar and the juice of a lemon. By this means the whiteness of the ap- ples will be preserved, for without the sugar and lemon they would turn red in the water; then take them out of the water and drain them, and then boil them in six ounces of clarified sugar; do not let them boil too long, for if they lose their firmness you cannot preserve their shape. Whilst they are boiling, cut eight more of the apples into little columns with a coup-racineone inch and a half in diameter, put them into the sugar and water, and boil them the same as the preceding, and then put them to drain on a large sieve, on which you should have previously placed the apples which were fir.st boiled. Then cut the remainder of the apples, and boil them in the rest of the syrup with the zesfe of a lemon. Cover them closely to keep in ilie vapour whilst they are boiling; after which you must keep constantly stirring until they are reduced to a mar- malade, then add to it half a not of apri- cot marmalade. and continue noiling the whole until it flows readily, tlien pass it througii a hair sieve, and put the mar- malade intoapan,whicli mustbe covered with paper slightly buttered. Then form some crumb of bread into a semi- circle three inches in diameter and four in length. Envelope this bread in moist- ened paper, and place it in the middle ofa dish, and mask it in your apple mar- malade (the marmalade should be cold), placing It in such a manner as to form aAPP (i3) APP little bridge, then take away the crurnb which has acted as a mould for the arch, round the arch place some seeds of ver- juice or preserved cherries; then mask the rest of the bridge with the slices of apple : all this must be done with great care, so that the bridge may have a pretty appearance; put at the four corners of the bridge, four columns of the apple prepared for this purpose, then cut some of the slices of the apple into squares, and place them on the top of the columns, so as to form a flat roof, upon this, place a brandy cherry ; into this cherry you must stick a piece of an- gelica to form a point for the finish to your columns. When you have finished your bridge, fill up the dish (underneath the bridge) with the apple jelly. This etilremet is usually garnished with angelica, pistachio, verjuice, cher- ries, apricot marmalade, gooseberries, quinces, &c. To form this entremet properly, you must carefully work from your model. Apples Slcioed in Jelly.—Cut your ap- ples in half, peel and core them, and as you do them throw them into cold water; then cut two of them into small pieces, put the whole into clarified sugar with a glass of water and some lemon juice, and stew them; when sufliciently done lay them inadish ; makeajellyofthe syrup, and pass it through a bolting-(doth upon a silver plate, and let it cool and set; and when set, slide it carefully over the fruit. Apple Syrup.*—Take six apples, pare and cut them into small pieces; put them into a matrass with three-quarters of a pound of sugar and two glasses of water; stop it close and place it in a bain marie, and leave it about two hours, letting the water be boiling ; move the matrass fre- quently without taking it out of the wa- ter ; this must be done carefully lest it should break on being exposed to the cold air; when done put out the fire, and let the matrass cool before you take it out. When the syrup is nearly cold, flavour it with lemon juice, and add a spoonful of spirits of lemon or cinnamon, orange flower water, or whatever else you may choose. If any dregs should arise, let it stand for some hours longer, and then gently pour the syrup into bot- tles. Great care must be taken to pre- vent its being muddy. Appi,e Tart.—Pare, core, and cut the bestsortof bakingapples in small pieces, and lay them in a dish previously lineu with a pud-crust; strew over them pounded sugar, cinnamon, mace, nut- meg, cloves, and lemon peel chopped small, then a layer of apples, then spice, and so on till the dish is full, pour over the whole a glass and a half of white wine. Cover it with puff-crust, and bake it. When done, take off'the crust and mix in with the apples two ounces of fresh but- ter, and then pour in two eggs well beat- en ; lay the crust on again, and serve either hot or cold. You may add pounded almonds and a little lemon juice. AvpvETartlets.*—Turn a dozen small, sound rennets, core and cut them across; put them into a preserving-pan with a glass of water, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; when sufficientlydone,put the apples on asieve to draiu. Prepare your tartlets according to the directions for Apricot Tartlets ; put in each, a little apricot marmalade, and on that the half of an apple pre- viously filled with apricot marmalade, and bake them in a hot oven. In the mean time reduce the syrup to a thin jelly, and pour it on the apple tartlets when baked, and finish them by placing a cherry, or, if they are not in season, a preserved verjuice-berry on the top. Apples d la Turque.—Neatly pare and pierce out the cores of eight or ten apples, put them on the fire with a thin syrup of clarified sugar, cover them close and let them simmer gently ; turn them, that both sides may be done. When thoroughly done lay them on a dish, with a wet paper over them. Put a paste round the dish you serve them in, and bake in a gentle oven to harden it, then put in a layer of apple puree, over which put the apples, and fill the holes where the cores were with dried cherries or apricot jam, then cover it with the apple puree ; beat up the whites of six eggs to a froth, and add powder sugar till they appeal- quite smooth ; make the apples warm, and lay the white of eggs over them, smooth it neatly over, and sift some powder sugar over it; colour it in a gentle oven. Apple/Fi'we.—Add to a barrel of cyder the herb scurlea, the quintessence of wine, a little nitre,and a pound of syrup of honey. Let it work in the cask till clear and well settled, then draw it off, and it will be little inferior to Rhenish, either in clearness, colour, or flavour. Apples, Codlings, to pickle.—Gather the codlings when of the size of a large double walnut; take a pan atul make a thick layer of vine leaves at the bottom. Putin the codlings, cover them well with vine leaves and spring water, and put them over a slow fire till they are suffi- ciently tender to pare the skins with ease with a small sharp knife. Put them into the same water, with vine loaves as be- fore ; cover them close and set the pan34 APR A PP at a short distance from the fire, until they are of a fine green ; then drain them in a cullender till they are cold. Put them into jars with some mace, and a clove 9r two of garlick, according to the quantity of the codlings, and cover them with distiUed vinegar; pour over mutton fat, and tie them down with a bladder and leather very tight. Apples, green Codlings, to preserve.— Gather the codlings when not bigger than French walnuts with the stalks and a leaf or two on each. Put a handful of vine leaves into apreserving-pan,then a layer of codlings, then vine leaves, and then codlings and vineleaves alternately,until it is full, with vine leaves pretty thickly strewed on the top, and fill the pan with spring w.iter; cover it close to keep in the steam, and set it on a slow fire till the apples become soft. Take them out, and pare off'the rinds with a penknife, and then put them into the same water again with the vineleaves, but takingcare that the water is become quite cold, or it will cause them to crack ; put in a little rock allum, and set them over a slow fire till they are green, when, take them out and lay them on a sieve to drain. Make a good syrup and give them a gentle boil three successive days ; then put them in small jars with brandy paper over them, and tie them down tight. Apples, golden Pippins, to presm-ve.— Take the rind of an orange and boil it very tender; lay it in cold water for three days; take two dozen golden pippins, pare, core, and quarter them, and boil them to a strong jelly, and run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear; take the same quantity of pippins, pare and core them, and put three pounds of loaf sugar in a preserving-pan with a pint and a half of spring water; let it boil; skim it well and pu.t in your pippins, with the orange rind cut into long thin slips ; then let them boil fast till the sugar becomes thick and will almost candy; then pour in a pint and halfof pippinjelly, and boil itfasttillthe jelly is clear; then squeeze in the juice of a fine lemon ; give the whole another boil, and put the pippins in pots or glasses with the orange peel. Lemon peel may be used instead of orange, but then it must only be boiled, and not soaked. Apples, Pippins, preserved in slices.— When the pippins are prepared, but not cored, cut them into slices; take their equal weight of loaf sugar; put to the su- gar a sullicient quantity of water; let the sugar dissolve, skim it, and let it boil again very high ; then put the fiuit into the syrup when they are clear; lay them in shallow glasses in which they are to be served; then put into the syrup a candied orange peel cut into little slices very thin, and lay them about the pip- pin ; cover them with syrup and keep them about the pippin. APRICOTS {Bottled).’ — Press the quantity of ripe apricots you may require through a horse-hair sieve ; put the pulp into bottles, cork them very close, and tie them over; place these bottles up- right in a large saucepan, with hay be- tween to prevent their touching; put the saucepan on the fire, and fill it with water. When the water is near boiling, take it off and let it stand till the bottles are cold ; then put them in a cellar, with- out touching each other, until wanted, when they will be found as good to use as fresh fruit. The apricots may also be preserved whole by the same means. Apricots in brandy.*—Choose your apricots when quite ripe, let them be free from spots, rub them carefully with a linen cloth to take off the down. Weigh your fruit, and to each pound put a quar- ter of a pound of sugar. Clarify it, and boil it to the degree grand perli, then put in the apricots; boil them three or four times, takingcare to turn them fre- quently, that they may take the sugar in all parts. Take them off' the fire, and put them one by one into glass bottles ; the syrup being by this time nearly cold, pour the brandy (threerfei/iisefi'ers to each pound) into it by degrees, stirring con- stantly to mix it well with the syrup. When thoroughly incorporated, pour it into the bottles, the fruit at first will float; but when the brandy and sugar have soaked in they will sink to the bot- tom ; they are then fit to eat. Apricot Cakes.—Scald, peel,and take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots, beat them to a pulp, boil hall a pound of doulile-refined sugar with a little water, and skim it well; then put in your fruit, and simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, stirring them gently all the time ; put them into shallow glasses, and when cold turn them on glass plates; put them in a stove, and turn tliem once a day till dry. Apricot.s, Charlotte of.’ — Choose twenty-four fine plump, but not too ripe, apricots, pare and divide ihemintoeight parts, toss them up in a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and two ounces of ivarm butter I in the mean time line a mould as directed (see CharlotteI; pour in the anricots.and finish a.s usual. When turned on your dish, cover it light- ly with apricot marmalade, and serve it immediately. Apricot Chips.— Take apricota or peaches, pare them, and cut them veryAPR APR (25 thin into chips; then take three-fourths of their weiglit in sugar,finely sifted, and put the sugar and fruit into a dish, and place it upon a stove of moderate heat; when the sugar is dissolved, turn the chips upon the edge of the dish, out of the syrup, and so set them by. Keep turning them until they have absorbed all the syrup, but take care that they never boil. They must be warmed in the syrup once, daily, and so laid out on the edge of the dish until, by repetition, all the syrup be drank up by them. Apricots (green) Compote of*—Green apricots are done exactly the same as green almonds. See Almonds. Apricots, Compote of.*—Peel, cut, and I take the stones from your fruit, and put them on the fire in a little water, and ' when they rise they are sufficiently done, and maybe takeiiout,cooled,and drained. Then put them into a little clarified sugar and give them three or four boilings ; skim them well, and then put your fruit aside; boil the sugar alone four or five I times more, and pour it over the apricots. When cold place them in the eompotier. Apricots, /A7io/e.®—Choose the finest yellow, but not too ripe, apricots ; take I off the stalks, prick them on each side with a pin, make an incision with the ! point of a knife, through which extract I the stone. Then put them on the fire I with as much water as will cover them, i: until near boiling, wheiij if soft, the apri- i: cots should be thrown into cold water; .1 take care they are all equally tender. J1 Drain them on a hurdle, and in the mean 1! lime clarify and boil some sugar to the h deCTee you require ; put in alittle water, |; ana when it boilsremove itfrom the fire, and add to it the fruit, and having given ii them a few boilings together, let them f cool, then drain and place them in your ! aympotiers. Apricots (Conserve o/).*—Take half ripe apricots, peel and cut them into ; thin slices, dry them over a gentle fire ; : to four ounces of fruit put one pound of ! sugar, boiled to the degree of la plume forte; when the sugar is nearly cold put in the fruit, taking care to stir it well ^ with a spoon, that they may be well incor- I porated. Apricot Creani,& la Fran false.*—Cut intopieces fifteenfine ripeapricots,choose them of a nice red colour. Boil them in ' four ounces of clarified sugar. When re- duced to a thin marmalade, beat them through a sieve; then boil four glasses of 1 milk with six ounces of sugar and one grain, of salt, and mix it by degrees with I the yolks of eight eggs,constnntly stirring It with a wooden spoon, then cream it over a moderate fire; after which it must be strained through a sieve. Add six drachms of isinglass ; as soon as it is cool, pour itgently on the apricot marmalade, stirring it gradually, until the whole is well mixed together, then pour it in a mould (which should be previously rubbed with oil of sweet almonds), then surround the mould with ice; cover your cream with a piece of paper or the lid of a sauce- pan. After your cream has been in the mould for two hours, gently turn it out upon a dish, and serve. The advantages arising from rubbing the moulds with oil of sweet almonds, is preventing the necessity of dipping the moulds into warm water to get the cream out easily, which is rather a long opera- tion. Cream with Plum de reine-chaude is made in the same manner as the above ; the proper quantity of plums to make use of are four-and-twenty, and they should be very ripe. Plums de miralelle are done in the same way, and the same number (twenty-four) made use of. Avricot Custard,glazed.*—Cut twenty- fine apricots in halt, lake out the stones; toss up twelve apricots in four ounces of powder sugar, and place them in a cream according to the directions for apple cus- tard ; bake and glaze as therein directed- Put a glass of water and a quarter of a pound qf powder sugar with the rest of the fruit into a preserving pan ; when the syrup is properly reduced, take the skin from the apricots and arrange them in the custard ; garnish each half apricot with a kernel, and when ready to serve, pour the syrup on it. Serve hot or cold- Apricots, Fanchonettes o/.*—Make your fanchonettes (see that Article) as usual, and garnish them lightly with apricot marmalade; and when baked and cold fill them with this marmalade, and finish as there directed. Apricots, Flan Parisien.*—Take five dozen very fine apricots, cut them in half, and put them, a few at a time, over the fire, with half a pound of sugar and four glasses of water ; as soon as you find the peel will come off easily, take them out and drain them, and put fresh apri- cots into the syrup, and proceed the same until all are peeled, then reduce the syrup to the usual consistence. Put a pound of rice, half a pound of blitter, the same of sugar, on which grate the zestes of four lemons, a little salt, eight or nine glasses of milk, and three quar- ters of a pound of raisins, into a sauce- pan, and when it boils take it from the fire, and put it on hot cinders, stirring it occasionally for an hour, when, if the rice be quite soft, mix the yolks of ten eggs with it.(26) APR APR Then make a croustade or raised crust of nine inches diameter, and about five or six high, into this pour about a quarter of your preparation of rice, on whicliput a layer of apricots, with two or three spoonsful of thesyrup, then pour a second portion of rice, then the apricots and eyrup, and so on twice more; tie a paper round l\\eflan and put it in a brisk oven ; when it has been in an hour, cover it, that the yellow tinge which it has ac- uired, by this time, may be preserved, 'his dish will take two hours and a half to bake properly. When ready to send to table, it may be covered with a large meringue., if you think proper. Observe that the rice and apricots should be cold when put into the eroustade. Apricot Fritters d la Dauphine.*— Take twelve small apricots, cut them into halves, and boil them in syrup. Let them drain, and take off their peel. When they are cold make a very thin crust with brioehe paste, and make a fritter for each of the halves of your apricots. Then fry them, and finish the same as fritters d la Dauphine. Peach fritters are made in the same manner as the above. Apricots (Fromage of.)—Peel and stone eight or twelve ripe apricots, and pound them in a mortar with a little sugar, then rub them through a tammy with a new wooden spoon ; mix in with this a little dissolved isinglass, and a p'nt of thick cream, well beaten. Con- tinue to whip it over ice till the isinglass is melted and blended with the fruit; then put it into a mould, round which heap ice and salt. If you do not attend particularly to the stirring over ice, the fruit will lallto the bottom. In winter time apricot marmalade must be used. Apricots d la Fromage Bavaroise.*— Take eighteen fine ripe apricots, let them be of a nice red colour. Cut them into small pieces, and boil them in eight ounces of clarified sugar. When they arc reduced to a complete marmalade, beat them through a sieve. Then add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass and a glass of good cream. Stir the preparation well together, and then leave it to ice. When it begins to set add to it whipt cream, and finish the same as in Green Walnuts d la Fromage Bavaroise. You may likewise mix your apricots with powdered sugar, and an hour after pass them raw through a fine sieve. Peaches may be done in the same manner as the above ; the proper quan- tity of peaches to be made use of are firtfion* Apricot Marmalade Petits Cdteaux- /oim*.*—Roll out some pu(T paste very thin, and divide it into two equal parts, each of which should be thirteen inches long and eight wide. Moisten a baking tin to hold one of these layers, on which pour a pot of apricot marma- lade, and spread it of an equal thickness to within half an inch of the edge of the paste, which moisten lightly. Then roll the other layer round your rolling-pin, and begin to place it on the first: unroll it gradually and carefully, and thus cover the whole of your marmalade; press the edges of both together; dorez the upper layer, and then with a knife mark a line across the middle, taking care not to go so deep as to divide the paste ; with equal care mark three lines on each side, and parallel to the first, keeping them at equal distances, say two inches and a quarter between every line. Then mark it the long way, so as to make tiventy-four cakes all of the same size, and bake it in a quick oven, and when the under side is of a clear yellow you may take it out and glaze it. When your gdleuux are cold, divide them ac- cording to the marks, which may be varied to your taste; either lozenge, crescents, circles, &c. When of the above-mentioned form, with the point of a knife mark on each cake an ear of corn, or any other design you may choose, be- fore baking. Take care in thus mark- ing the paste to divide, but not to cut it through. Apricots Petits Gateaux Glacis.*— Makean under crust of puli’paste as for these gateaux fourrls, wliich cover with apricot marmalade, carefully removing any particles of the kernels which may be in it; put in a moderate oven, and when the paste is sufficiently done, take it out, and let it cool; then cut your gdteaux of the usual forms. The apri- cots should be of a reddish colour when glazed. Apricots (G&tcavx Parisiens of).'— Pare fifteen fine ripe apricots, divide them into quarters, and toss them up, (without putting them on the fire.) with a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter melted, the same of powder sugar, with the zeste of a lemon grated on it. Bre^ the stones, blanch and cut the kernels in half, and mix them with the fruit. Pre- pare your gdleau.i' exactly the same as Gllteaux Parisieus of .\pples ; put the apricots in very carefully, and then finish as therein directed, only that sugar is strewed over the top. Apricots, Petits Gdteau.r Royatix.*— Make two layers of puli’ paste, about fourteen inches square ; mask one of them with apricot marmalade, on whichAPR APR (27) put the other layer; cutout and finish your gateaux royaux in the same way as tliose made of almonds, (see that recipe.) Aricots and Filberts, (Gimblettes o/).»—Prepare some puff paste, spread apricot marmalade over it, and cover that with paste, as if for pctits gateaux fourris. hut making it tliirteen inches square ; then with a circular paste-cutter about two inches diameter, cut out the gimblettes; then witli another, ouly one inch across, take out the centre; cut a quarter of a pound of filberts very small, mix them with two ounces of powder sugar and a little white of egg; dorez your rings or gimblettes, and lay them that side downwards on the fil- berts ; then turn them the right way, place them on a baking tin, sprinkle powder sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. These may be served either hot or cold. Apricot lee*—Choose about thirty ripe, plump apricots, cut ttiem in half, and take out the stones, and press them through a sieve; and for a pound of this pulp boil a pound of sugar to petit liss^; mix them together and add a dozen of the kernels pounded, and infused in a glass of cold water with the juice of two lemons, and then strained through a tammy. Put the whole into youi’ sabo- tierre till wanted. See Ice. Apricots in Jelly.—Pare and stone your apricots, scald them a little, lay them in a pan, and cover them with cla- rified sugar; next day drain the syrup, and boil it smooth, then add the apricots and boiltogether; the followingday make a jelly with codlings, boiling some apri- cots among them, to give a betterflavour. When the jelly is done put in the other fruit with the syrup, and boil altogether, skim it well and put it in glasses. Apricot Jelly.*—Take eighteen fine apricots, let them be of a nice red colour, stone them, and cut them in pieces into some syrup, (usually made with twelve ounces of sugar, hut for apri- cot jelly it should be rather more liquid than for other jellies). When the fruit is done put it into a napkin, to express out all the juice you possibly can : which you must add to the syrup in which the apricots have been done, and which has been previously strained through a silk sieve, and after having mixed with it a proper quantity of isinglass to thicken It, finish the same as all other iellies. Apricots, {Petits Livrets o/.)*—Are made tlie same as apricot pulls, the only dilierence is, that they are cut of an oblong form with a knile, instead of being semi-circular ; they are usually about two inches and a half long, by two and a quarter wide. « Apricot Marmalade.*—Peel the apri- cots, and take out the stones; to each pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to the de- gree grosboulet, then put in the apricots, boil both together: when it flows readily it may be put into pots. Apricot Marmalade.*—Take some fine apricots, and choose from amongst them those which are of the deepest yel- low and the ripest, (they must not be too ripe.) Peel them, take out the stones, and chop them up; weigh twelve pounds of them and put them into a preserving pan, with nine pounds of powder sugar ; place your pan over a quick fire, and keep your preparation constantly stirring with a long wooden spoon. To find out when the marmalade is sufficiently done, let a few drops fall into a glass of cold water, and if they do not spread in the water, your marmalade is ready to put into pots. Another method of ascertaining when your marmalade is done is by taking some on theendof yourfingerand thumb, and just rub them together, and if on separating them you find the marmalade forms a thread, it is sufficiently done. Apricot Paste.*—Take the stones from as many apricots as you may re- quire, and reduce them to a marmalade over the fire ; then rub them through a sieve, dry and weigh the marmalade, and boil an equal quantity of clarified sugar to petit bouU, then add the fruit, and mix it well in ; put them on the fire and boil them together till sufficiently done ; then pour the paste into moulds, and dry it in a stove. Apricot Pasfe.-*—Peel and stone two pounds of ripe apricots, soak them pretty dry on the fire, and mash them'very fine; add a pound of sugar prepared a la grande plume; stir them well together on the fire till the paste quits the spoon ; finish it in moulds and dry it quick. Apricot Piekle.—Apricots must be gathered just before they are ripe. Cover them with spring water well salted, and an equal quantity of bay and c immoa salt; lay a thin board over to keep the fruit under water. When they have lain three days in water, take them out, wipe carefully, and put them in a jar. Take as much white wine vinegar aswill fill the jar, and to every gallon put a pint of the best well made mustard, two or three heads of garlick, plenty of sliced ginger, and half an ounce of cloves, mace, and nutmegs. _ JMix the pickle well together, and pour it over the apricots; tie it up U 2APR APR (28 close, and it will be fit to eat in two months. Apricot Pie.*—Line a dish with puff paste, and then put in eighteen fine apri- cots, (cut in halves and the stones tal<en out,) with four ounces of sugar in pow- der, and four ounces of butter luke warm. Then lay on the upper crust, glaze with tlie white of egg, and strew sifted sugar all over. Let it bake in a moderate oven to a nice light colour. Serve it hot. When you wish to serve it cold, you must leave out the butter. Apricots a la Portugaise*—Take a dozen of ripe apricots, cut them in half, and take out the stones; place them on a silver plate, and pour over some clari- fied sugar, with a little water ; put them on a stove without covering them ; when sufficiently done, take them from the fire, and strew sugar over ; then put on the lid of the baking-pan under the fire, to make them of a good colour. Apricots, to preserve, — Pare your apricots, and stone what you can whole, then give them a light boiling in water proportioned to the quantity of fruit, only just enough; then take the weight of the apricots in sugar, and take the li- quor in which they have boiled, and the sugar, and boil it till it comes to a sy- rup, and give them alight boiling, taking oft'the scum as it rises. When the syrup jellies, it is enough ; then take up the apricots and cover them with the jelly; put cut paper over them, and lay them down when cold. Apricots, to preserve 6Veen.—Gather the apricots before they have s tones, which you may discoverby passing a pin through them ; then coddle them in several wa- ters until they become quite green; peel them and coddle them again ; then take their weight in sugar, and make a syrup ; put to the sugar some water, then put in the apricots, and set them upon the fire to boil slowly till they be clear, skim- ming them often, when they will be quite green. Put them in glasses, and keep them for use. Apricot Pudding.—Whisk up a pint of milk or cream, six eggs, four table- spoonsful of fine flour, a little salt, and a smallquantityof poundedcinnamon. Rub the apricots well through a hair sieve, and add a suflicient quantity of the pulp to make the whole a little thicker than batter; sweeten, and put it into a but- tered basin, and boil an hour and a quar- ter. Serve with melted butter. Apricot Pudding a la Prantaise,*— Take six-and-thirty nice line red apri- cots, cut them in halves, and take out the stones, and roll them in a pan with four ounces of powdered sugar. Prepare your crust, line your mould with it, put in your apricots, and finish the same as in the receipt for Apple Pudding <i la Franfuise. Apricot Puffs.*—Roll out some puff- paste to about fifteen inches long, the eighth of an inch in thickness, and five or six inches wide; then lay on at equal distances, two inches from the edge of the paste, a small quantity of apricot marmalade; moisten the paste round each bit of marmalade, and turn the two inches of paste over, press it down round the preserve so as to unite the upper and under crusts, and to keep the marmalade from spreading; and then withacircular paste, using half of it only, cut them out into semi-circular turnovers; place them on a baking-tin, rforez and bake them in a hot oven. When nearly done, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. Apricot Ratafia.—Peel and cut into pieces as many ripe apricots as you may require, and boil them in white wine (about a pint to four dozen) ; strain and mix it with an equal quantity of brandy; ut the whole into a jar, with tlie kernels ruised, add a quarter of a pound of sugar to each pint. Let it infuse for three weeks, then filter and bottle it. Apricots (Sovffii Parisien of).* — Take forty-six fine ripe apricots cut in half and stoned, three-quarters of a pound of sugar m syrup, make a dry marmalade and pass it tlmough a sieve. Whip eighteen whites of eggs to a strong froth, and mix two spoonsful of it with the marmalade, and when it has suffi- ciently softened the latter, mix all to- gether lightly and pour it into a crous- tade, and finish as directed for SouffU Parisien of Apples, Apricot (Liquid) Sweetmeat or Pre- serve,*—Green apricots are done in the same way'as green almonds: the fruit must be taken before the stone is formed; when you put a pin through them. Apricot Sweetmea t whole and dry.*— Choose fine firm apricots, make a little opening at the top to take out the stone, put them into cold water, then blanch them over the fire ; when they begin to boil, take out those which are soft, throw them into cold water, and drain them. In tlie meantime, prepare some clarified sugar to petit lisse. When it boils put in the apricots, and boil up a few times to- gether. The next day separate the su- gar from the fruit, boil d la nappe, and then pour it over the apricots again; the following day boil the sugar petit perli. then add the fruit, and boil together; theAPR APR (29) foui th day drain them; and, having '.placed tliein on iron plates, sprinkle them with sugar before you put them into the stove to dry; when dry, place in boxes in layers, placing a sheet of paper between each layer. Apricot Take the stones from a pound of ripe apricots; peel and cut ■the kernels into small pieces; also cut up the apricots. ,Boil two pounds of su- gar, until on blowing it flies oft'in sparks; then put in the kernels and fruit, and boil tliem together, until it forms a thread ; then strain through asieve. The sugar must be put in proportion to the time you wish to keep the syrup; two pounds of sugar to one pound of fruit is the quantity to keep from one year to the other. Apricot Tart.—Cat each in two, and break the stones; if the fruit is not ripe enough, boil a little while in water, then drain them well; put them into paste with sugar, a little preserved lemon, and a few of the kernels; cover it, strew sugar over, and glaze it. Apricot Tartlets.*—Vat a quarter of a pound of sugar, two glasses of water, and six fine ripe apricots cut in halves ; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, take out the fruit with a fork and put it into a plate ; and do twelve more halves with the same sugar; take them out also, and pare the whole number. Pass the sugar through a napkin, and then put it again into your preserving pan to reduce the syrup and make it a little thicker. Dilute half a pound of flour, and make it into a fine but rather firm roll it out very tliin (to about the of an inch); turn it over and cut from it twenty-four narrow slips ; then spread out the remainder of your paste, and, with a round paste-cutter, two inches in diameter, cut twenty-four cakes, and put them upon as many tart- let moulds lightly buttered; do this with as much care as possible that no air may get bctiieen the mould and the paste. Roll each band or slip of paste on the slab with your hand, double and twist it into a cord, and having moistened the edges of the tartlets, put the cords round like frames ; when all your tartlets are thus embellished, dorez the twisted bands, put a small quantity of powder sugar in each tartlet, and on that lay an half apricot, the kernel-side downwards. Bake them in a quick oven, and when they are of the proper colour, which should be rather yellow, take them out, put on each a spoonful of the above- mentioned syrup, and finish them by placing half an apricot kernel on the top. paste, eighth Apricots Glazed (Tourte of).*—hay down a puft'paste, and having moistened the edge, uut a band round it, rather higher ana thicker than that of the gateaux (see 6r«<enKa.’Parisienneof Apri- cots) ; take care to make this band ,ioin neatly, the best manner of doing which, is to cut the two ends bias, and then place them on each other, moisten, and press them together. Strew a spoonful of fine sugar over the bottom of the tourte, and place on that twenty-four quarters of apricots each rolled in sugar; take care that none of the sugar falls on the band, as it would spoil the appear- ance of it, dorez the outside of it, and put it in a quick oven. In ten minutes see if the band rises equally, and if it be compressed in any part, (which will sometimes occur either from the heat of the oven or inattention in mak- ing the paste), detach it with the point of a knife, and then replace it in the oven as quickly as possible; when the tourte is 4u'te done, sift sugar over andglazeit. Then take eight fine plump apricots, and boil them in a syrup made with a quarter of a pound of sugar and a glass of water; when sufficiently done, drain, takeoff' the skin, and divide the apricots; and having taken out the stone, arrange them on the tourte like a crown, with a kernel on each; and just before serving mask it with the syrup. A PRicoT Marmalade Pralini. Tourte of.*—Prepare the crust for the bottom of your tourte as above directed: then roll out another layer of pulf-paste very thin, and cut it out according to your fancy. Pour a pot of apricot marmalade on the under crust, and spread it equally over it, leaving an inch ail round, which must be slightly wetted ; put the outer crust on the marmalade, press it down carefully, dorez the paste which covers the preserve, and cover it with two ounces of filberts cut extremely small, and mixed with two ounces of fine sugar and a very small quantity of white of egg. Then place your band round the lower crust as above described, dorez that also, and bake it in a quick oven. If the filberts colour too quickly, lay a double paper over them. AVhen the tourte is done glaze it as usual. Another way.*—Make your under crust as usual, and spread the marma- lade over it; roll out the puff'paste very thin, sprinkle it with flour, and cut it in slips a quarter of an inch wide ; lay some of these slips at equal distances across your marmalade, and others across them so as to form a net-work over the preserve. You may also lay the stripsART (30) ART of paste so as to form a star of as many points as you think proper. Apricot //'iwe.—Pare, and take the stones from ripe apricots, bruise and put them to six quarts of water and one of white wine, simmer gently for a consi- derable time: when the fruit is soft, pour the liquor to apricots, prepared as the others; let it stand twelve hours, stir- ring occasionally; pour oil' the liquid, and press the remains through a fine hair bag, and put them together in a cask to ferment: put in about a pound of sugar to each gallon. Boil an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of nutmeg, in a quart of white wine, and while hot pour it into the fermenting wine, and hang a bunch of fresh burrage in the caskfor three days. Draw it off'and keep in bottles. AQ\]AMimlilis.—Take cloves, mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, galingal,cubebs, and cardamoms, of each four drachms ; put to them two pints of the juice of celen- dine, one pint of the juice of spearmint; balm juice, flowers of melilot, cowslip, rosemary, burrage, bugloss, and mari- golds, of each one drachm; carraway, coriander, and fennel, of each four drachms ; four quarts of sack, and two of white wine; the strongest brandy, angeli- ca water, and rose water, of each a quart. Bruise the spices and seeds, and steep them with the herbs and flowers in their juices, waters, sack, wine, and brandy, all night. Next day distil it, and from these quantities may be drawn off" two gallons. Sweeten it with sugar candy. Keep it in a cool place in bottles. ARTICHOKES and Almonds, a me- lange.—Take half a pound of sweet al- monds blanched and beat fine, with two tea spoonsful of orange flower water; then take a quart of cream, and boil it with a small quantity of cinnamon and mace; sweeten it with fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds; stir them to- gether, and strain it through a sieve. Let the cream cool, and thicken it with the yolks of six eggs; then garnish a deep dish, and lay paste at the bottom ; then put in shred artichoke bottoms, being first boiled; and upon these a little melted butter, shred citron, and candied orange; repeating the same until tlie dish is nearly full, then pour in the cream, and bake it without a lid. AVhen it is baked, grate sugar over it, and servo it hot. Half an hour will serve to bake it. Artichokes d la Barigottle.*—Cut the ends of the leaves from three artichokes, and blanch them for about twenty mi- nutes in boiling water; let them cool, take out the chokes and drain them ; then fry them in very hot batter. Tut into a saucepan half a pound of grated bacon, as much butter and oil, chop some mushrooms very small, with a spoonful of shred shallots, the same of parsley, a little spice, salt and pepper, do these all up together, let the mixture cool, and then, having drained the artichokes, fill them with it, tie them up and braise them for three-quarters of an hour. Take off' the string and place the artichokes in your dish, with a little espagnole or a light ronx. Artichokes i la Barigeule.*—Take two or three artichokes, according to the size of your dish, cut away the stalk and half the leaves; put them into a stew- pan with a little stock or water, two spoonsful of good oil, a little salt and pep- per, an onion, two roots, and a bunch of sweet herbs; boil the whole until the sauce is nearly consumed ; then fry the artichokes to make them crisp ; next, put them in a baking dish with the sauce that remains ; take out the choke, and colour the leaves with a salamander or in a hot oven ; serve with a sauce of oil, vinegar, salt and pepper. Artichokes Boiled.—Take six or eight young artichokes, cut and neatly trim them, throw them into cold water as yon do them. Boil them for half an hour in boiling water, with a handful of salt, then drain, and place them on a dish; serve with melted butter. AmicnoKE Bottomsen Canapi.*—Rub as many artichoke bottoms as you may require with lemon juice, and boil them in water with butter, salt, and lemon or verjuice ; when done take them out and drain them. Garnish them with hard yolks of eggs, fine herbs minced, truffles boiled and cut very small, capers, gher- kins, filets of anchovies, and carrots; place these with the artichoke bottoms, in the table-dish, on a bed of parsley and green onions, seasoned with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar. Artichoke Bottoms d Vicariate.*— Turn and boil fourteen artichoke bot- toms the same as for artichokes d la mag- nonnaise, then cut oft' one-third from each of your artichokes. Then place them upright on the cut side two by two, in a dish in the form of a crown. Cut seven slices from beef oj- ox palates, cut these again into semi-circles and orna- ment the outer ridges d dents dc loitp, or notch them. Place these scmi-circles between the artichoke bottoms. Then cut the remainder of the artichokes and the cuttings of the palates into dice, which must be tossed in a magnonnaise d la ravigotte. Pour this into the centre of tile crown, or rather into the middle of the dish.ART ART (31 You may also mask the artichoke bottoms with a white magnonnaise, and serve slices of tongue in the centre of your crown. This cntremet is usually served with oil, and with ravigotte chopped very fine. Or you may serve a good macedoine in tlie centre of the crown, or heads of asparagus, or French beans 4 la huile. AnTicHOKE Bottoms in Jelly.*—Turn and boil ten artichoke bottoms the same as for artichokes d la 7nugnonnaise. When they are cold, carefully pare six of the finest, and cut the remaining four (with a root-cutter two inches or tvvo inches and a quarter in diameter); in such a manner that each artichoke bot- tom shall give you three circles, these circles must all be of the same thickness. Place these circles two by two in a dish, in which you have previously put a suf- ficient quantity of aspick jelly to fill up the bottom of your dish. Place upon these little socles (which ought to be placed at equal distances) the six arti- choke bottoms, so as to form a cup, and fill up the inside of them with aspick jelly. Garnish your dish either with jelly or roots. Artichoke bottoms Ala 7nacidohie, are prepared in the same way as for arti- chokes A la magnonnaise, but you gar- nish them on a dish en p7j7'amide with a dessert spoonful of prepared macedoine, or small green French beans (three- quarters of an inch long), or heads of asparagus. The artichokes for these e7it)'emets must be marinated in salt, mig7ionette oil, and tarragon vinegar, for two hours, they must then drain on a plate. AaxicHOKEjBo^fotws, A laMagnonnaise.* —Strip oS' the leaves from eight arti- chokes, and turn them ; as you turn them rub them over v/ith the half of a lemon, and throw them into cold water. When your -artichokes are thus pre- pared, put them into a middling-sized stewpan with boiling water, two ounces of butter, the juice of two lemons, and some salt; as soon as they boil, place the stewpan by the side of the stove; cover the artichokes with a round piece of buttered paper, and leave them to simmer. When they have simmered until they are tender, drain them, take out the core, and dress them all round. Then let them marinate in a pan with oil, vinegar, salt, and whole pepper, for two hours; you must then drain them ; after this, cut each artichoke into two parts, one part a little larger than the other; take the largest of the two parts, and cut them into two equal parts, ancl place them on a dish in the form of a crown; then take the other parts, and cut them into two equal parts, the same as you cut the others, and place them in the form of a crown, over the others ; this forms a double crown, and is a very pretty manner of serving this vegetable cold, as an e7it7-emet. VVhen it is served, you pour into the middle of your crown a 7nagnonnuise, either white or green. AaxicHOKE Bottoms (7’agoiC of').— Trim them and boil with some good gravy, mushroom ketchup or powder, cayenne pepper and salt, thickened with a little flour. Arxichokes. Blo7idms.* — Half boil some artichokes, and put them into a stewpan with a slice of veal,a little bacon, and some broth ; let them stew till ten- der, then pour over them the yolks of three eggs diluted with cream, and a little chopped parsley ; let it thicken, but not boil, and serve it hot. Arxichokes en Caisson.*—Ti\m and boil young artichokes, take off the leaves and separate the bottoms; pound together streaked bacon and sausage- meat, and lay a little on the artichoke bottom, and cover it with another; dip them in a batter or eggs beaten ; strew them with bread crumbs, and fry them of a fine colour; place fried parsley under them. Arxichokes dided red.—Boil your artichokes in water till soft, then take them out, pound some cochineal very- fine, and mix in fresh water: boil the ar- tichokes with this a quarter of an h^r, and then put them in bags to dry. Arxichokes Fz-ied.—Cut your arti- chokes, according to their size, in four or eight pieces; take out the choke and clear away the large leaves, wash them well in two or three waters, drain and then dip them in a paste made with flour, cream, and yolks of eggs ; fry in oil or dripping. When you take them out of the frying-pan sprinkle them with salt, and serve on fried parsley. Arxichokes glazed.—Blanch your ar- tichokes, dry and place them in a stew- pan, with some onions sliced, some veal and lean ham and bacon ; let them sweat gently till they begin to stick to the bottom, then moisten them with a little broth in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled; when sufficiently done, pass the liquor through a napkin. Let it cool, and when it has become a jelly, pour it over the artichokes. _ Arxichokes A la Jtalie7i7ie.*—Mix a little veal gravy with some butter and n little flour, crumble some bread into a dish and pour some of the sauce, and grate parmesan cheese over it; place(32) ART ART your articliokes on tliis ; pour over the remainder of the sauce, and sprinkle over the whole grated bread and parme- san cheese. Bake it of a good colour, and serve very hot. Artichokes d la Lyonnaise.*—Take three large artichokes, and divide each into eight pieces, remove the hard parts, tlie choke, and nearly all the leaves; trim what remains, and throw tliem into cold water as you do them; wash and drain them well, spread half a pound of butter on the bottom of a stewpan. and lay your artichokes on it, sprinltling them with salt and pepper : half an hour before they are wanted, put them over a brisk fire, cover the stewpan, and put fire on that also, taking care they do not burn. tVhen tney are of a nice light colour, serve them, pouring the butter over them. Artichokes, Pickled.—Boil some ar- tichokes till you can pull the leaves off, take out the choke and cut away the stalk ; be cai-eful that the knife does not touch the top. Throw them into salt and water ; when they have lain an hour, take them out and drain them, then put them into jars or glasses, and put a little mace and sliced nutnieg between ; fill them with the best vinegar and spring water. Cover your jars close. Artichoke Pie.—Boil twelve arti- chokes, break off the leaves and chokes, and take the bottoms clear from the stalks ; line the dish with puff'paste, and lay on it four ounces of fresh butter. Place a row of artichokes, strew over them pepper,salt,and beaten mace, then a layer of artichokes; strew on more spice and a quarter of a pound of butter cut in small pieces. Boil half an ounce of tnrffles and morels, chopped small, in a quarter of a pint of water, and pour it into the pie, with a gill of white wine. Cover your pie and bake. Artichokes preserved the Spanish way.—Take the largest artichokes, cut off the tops of the leaves, wash and well drain them ; to every artichoke pour in a table spoonful of Florence oil, and season them with pepper and salt. Bake them in an oven, and they will keep for ten or twelve months. Artichokes preservedwhole.*—Choose middle-sized articliokes, take off'all the useless leaves and trim them, plunge them into boiling, and then into cold water; when drained, put them into bottles, make them air-tight, surround the bottles with cloths, and place them in a kettle full of cold water, cover the lid also with wet clothes. When it has been boiling about two hours, take the kettle from the fire; in a quaiter of an hour draw off tlie water and uncover the kettle ; do not take out the bottles in less than an hour; the next day tar the bottles. Artichokes, d la Provenfale.*—Take five or six young artichokes, take away the largest leaves, and clear away the sharp edges. Blanch them in boiling water until you can take out the choke ; put into its place the following:—pouuti streaky bacon with some pig, or the white part of poultry or game. Place them at the bottom of a stewpan witli some slices of bacon, parsley, and mo- rels cut small, salt, pepper, and a little salad oil. Let them stew until the under leaves are crisp. Serve with a little veal gravy. Another way.*—Prepare three arti- chokes as for barigoule. Divide a dozen onions into quarters, which cut into thin slices; put them, with half a pound of butter, into a stewpan ; when lightly coloured, mix with them three pounded anchovies; stuff'your artichokes with this and braise them. Serve them with esjMgnole sauce, or a light roua;. Artichoke Salad.*—Trim and blanch your artichokes; drain, cut them in quarters, and put them in a dish ; gar- nish the spaces between each with sweet herbs, and dress it with the yolks of two eggs, spoonful of vinegar, two spoonsful of oil, sweet herbs chopped fine, salt and pepper. Artichokes d la St. Cloud.—Trim and boil them till the chokes come out; then drain and let them cool; have ready as many small pigeons, stewed and well seasoned, as you have artichokes,each of which must be stuff'ed with a pigeon ; dip them in agood batter madeof flour, eggs, a spoonful of oil, and a little salt; fry in a very hot pan w’ith plenty of dripping. Artichokes auxvergies.*—Trim three or four artichokes,season and dress them d la braise, let them drain, and take out the choke; serve them witlj. the following sauce—a bit of butter rolled in flour, the yolks of two eggs, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper; when it has thickened over the fire, put in a few sour grapes, pre- viously boiled in a little water, and ^ur the whole over them. Artichoke Suckers, the Spanish way. —Clean and wash them, and cut them in halves, boil them in water, and put them into a stewpan with a little oil. a little, water, and a small quantity of vinegar; season them with pepper and salt; stew them a short time, and then thicken them with the yolks of eggs. Or the following;—Clean them and half boil them; then dry them, flour them, dip them iu yolks ol eggs, and fry them.ASP (33) ASP AnriCHOKE (Jerusalem).—They must be neatly peeled, and boiled very gently by the side of the stove, with a little salt in the water; when done (but not too much, or they will not look well) place them on the dish, and serve with plain butter, or any other sauce you plC3S0a ASHEE Sauce.—Chop, very small, some pickled cucumbers, capers, parsley, shallots, the breast of a boiled fowl, some lean ham, carrots, whites and yolks of eggs; add a good seasoned cullis, and a little mushroom Ketchup; simmer all together a quarter of an hour. ASPaRAGUS Boiled.—Scrape and tie them in small bundles; cut them even, boil them quick in salt and water; lay them on a toast dipped in the water the asparagus was boiled in ; pour over them melted butter, or fish sauce, oil, pepper, &c. Asparagus Bottled.*—C\e.&o the as- paragus as for boiling. Before you bottle them plunge them first intoboiling, then into cold water: place those which are unbroken carefully into bottles,the heads downwards, proceed in the same manner as in doing the artichokes. Asparagus in Cream.*—Choose the finest asparugus, and dress it as usual; parboil half a pint of cream and a little butter, shake it about, and when the but- ter is melted, season it moderately, and pour it over the asparagus. Asparagus en croustade.*—Mix up the yolks of four eggs in some paste ^ nouille, then form it into an undercrust, cut it into a band nineteen inches long, and two inches and a quarter wide. With the cuttings of your paste form a round six inches in diameter, and around this put your band inform oi ?l croustade, pinch up your paste into proper shape, and ornament it lightly round ; gild it, and put it to dry in a slow oven ; this done, take a fine head of asparagus and place it, standing upright, in the middle of your croustade, surround this with six more heads of asparagus nine inches in length, surround these with twelve more, eight inches in length ; round these put seventeen more, seven inches in length ; add two tnore rounds of asparagus heads, the one six inches, the other five inclies in length. Great attention should be paid to the boiling of asparagus for this cntremet, as it should be of a very nice green colour, and the moment it is sulliciently boiled (which is when it becomes firm) it should be put into cold water to cool it. This is an extretnely pretty and ornamental way of serving tliis vegetable cold. It should be eaten with oil. Asparagus and Toast a slice of bread, butter it, and lay it on a dish ; butter some eggs thus : take four eggs, beat them well, put them into a sauce- pan with two ounces of butter, and a little salt, until of a sufficient consist- ence, and lay them on the toast; mean- while boil some asparagus tender, cut the ends small, and lay them on the eggs. Asparagus and Eggs.*—Blanch some asparagus | cut it as for asparagus pease, and strew it in a little cream and butter; beat up a dozen eggs and fry them as for an omelet; and when they begin to take, mix the asparagus in it; when of a good colour on both sides, serve it very hot. Asparagus Fritada.*—Take young asparagus,breakoft the green heads, boil them till tender, then drain on a sieve. Beat up eggs, pepper, and salt; stir up the asparagus in the eggs, and fry in frit- ters. Do them in oil. Asparagus forced in French rolls.— Take out the crumb of three French rolls, by first cutting a piece of the top crust oft', and be careful that the crust fits again the same place. Fry the rolls brown in fresh butter; then take a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg; stir them well together over a slow fire till it begins to thicken. Have prepared a hundred of small grass boiled, then save tops suffi- cient to stick the rolls with, the remain- der cut small and put into tlie cream, fill the loaves with them. Before frying the rolls make holes thick in the top crust, and stick the grass in ; then lay on the piece of crust, and stick the grass in, that It may look as if it were growing. Asparagus Italian fashion.—Take the asparagus, break them in pieces, then boil them soft, and drain the water from them ; take a little oil, water, and vine- gar, let it boil, season it with pepper and salt; throw in the asparagus, and thicloen with the yolks of eggs. Endive done this way is good; the Spaniards add sugar, but that spoils them. Green pease done as above are very good ; only add a lettuce cut small, and two or three onions, and leave out the eggs. AsPARAGUsPease.*—Cut some aspara- gus to the form and size of pease, blanch them in boiling water,then put theminto astewpan with melted butter, parsley, scallions, and tarragon ; moisten them with a little cream, add some sugar, and thicken it with the yolks of eggs. AsPARAOusPfc/t/erf.—Cut and wash the green heads of the largest asparagus ; let them lie twoorlhree hours in cold water. Scald them very carefully in salt and(34) AUS ASP water, then lay them on a cloth to cool. Make a pickle according to the quantity of your asparagus, of white wine vinegar and bay salt, and boil it. To a gallon of pickle put two nutmega, a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same of whole white pepper, and pour the pickle hot over them. Cover the jar with a thick cloth, and let it stand a week, then boil the pickle; when it has stood another week, boil it a third time: when cold, cover the jar close. Asparagus Ragout.—and clean some asparagus, use the prime part only; wash a head or two of endive, and a lettuce ; cut them small; fry altogether till nearly dry in butter with a little shal- lot ; shake in some flour, stir them about, put in some cullis pepper and salt; stew all till the sauce is thick enough: gar- nish with a few of the asparagus heads plain boiled. Asparagus Saf/arf.—Scale and cut oil' the heads of large asparagus; boil them till nearly done; strain and put them into very cold water for five minutes, Md drain thcrn dry, afterwards lay them in rows on a dish ; garnish with slices of lemon, and dressing as other sallads. Asparagus Soup with Gree7i Pease.— Make a good soup of roots, and, when strained, boil a pint of green pease in part of the liquor. Choose some middling sized asparagus; cut them in pieces about three inches long, blanch them in boiling water, and then throw them into cold water ; drain and tie them in small bun- dles ; split the tips and boil them with the pease ; when done make a piirie of thern, and mix it with the root soup, and gimnish with the asparagus. Good meat broth may be used instead of the root soup. ASPICK.*—Take a knuckle of veal, a knuckle of ham, a thick slice of beef, and if they will not make your jelly still' enough, add two calf’s feet, or some swards of bacon rasped ; put them into a saucepan with a pint of rich stock, and sweat it over a stove till reduced to a glaze, then moisten it with stock, boil and skim it well. Put to it two onions, two carrots, salt, parsley, scallions, four eJoves, two bay leaves, and a clove of garlick; let the whole stew for seven hours, then strain of! the liquor or con- sommt. Break four eggs into a stcwpnn, and put to them the consummi when cold, tlie juice of two lemons, and two spoons- ful of tarragon, and beat it with a whisk over the fire till near boiling, and when it does so, remove your stewpan to a smaller fire, and place fire on the lid for half an hour: then pass it through a wet napkin doubled. If tlie jelly is not suf- ficiently clear, clarify it a second time. Put a layer of this jelly, alwut half an inch thick, at the bottom of an aspick mould, garnish it with truffles, whites of eggs, sprigs of parsley, &c. according to your taste, pour in another half inch of thejelly, while liquid, with great care, so as not to discompose your garnish, therr put either calf’s brains, breasts of fowl, veal-sweetbreads, cock’s-combs, kidneys, fat-livers, or game. Be sure to lay whatever you may use, as equal and smooth as possible, then fill up your mould with jelly, and let it stand till set. When wanted, dip the mould in hot water an instant, place your dish on the top and turn it over. A&vick (clear).*—Put a little mirepois, a glass of vinegar, a little whole pepper, and a handful of tarragon into a sauce- pan, boil them to a jelly, and then dilute it with two ladiesful of fowl consommi: set it by the side of the stove, take on the fat; clarify it with an egg and a little cold water, and pass it through a double napkin. Put the aspick in a bain-marie. Serve it with blanched tar- ragon leaves cut in lozenges. It is used as a sauce for fowls, fried fish, &c. Aspicko/ Chickens’breasts.*—Toss np eight breasts of chickens, seasoned with salt and pepper, and then leave them to cool. Put four ladiesful of oelouii, and four spoonsful of jelly, into a stewpan, and reduce them to half; then add the yolk of an egg, a little shred parsley, a bit of butter the size of an egg; mix them all together well, and pour it over the chickens; when cold put them in the aspick mould in layers, with cock’s- combs,kidneys,fillets ofchickens dressed like the breasts, and put in cold; dis- solve your jelly, fill up the mould with it, and let it cool and set. Turn it out as usual. Aspick (little) d la worferwe.*—Have ready eight small timbale moulds, two inches and a half in diameter, and three high; fill and decorate them as the large aspick. Turn them out, and place one in the centre of your dish, six round it, and the eighth on that which stands in the centre. Garnish with a border of jelly, or coloured butter. Aspick Sauce.—Infuse chervil, tar- ragon, burnet, garden cress, and mint, in some cullis for about an liour; then strain, and add to it asiioonful of vinegar, garlic, pepper, and salt. Serve itcold in a sauce boat. AUSTRI.^X Soi/p.—Cutalargechickcn in pieces; fry it in butter with sweet lierhs; boil it in good broth, and then roll itincrumbsofbreadandParmesancheese;BAG (35) BAG colour it with a salamander. Lay thin slices of bread with grated Parmesan clieese on them, then a layer of cabbages with more slices of bread j add the broth, and stew till it catches a little at bottom ; grate on a little more cheese; brown it, add a little more broth, and serve the chicken at the top. B. BAB A—Take three pounds of flqur,one uarter of which put apart and mix into ough,with a gill of go^d yeast and a lit- tle warm water ; cover it close in a stew- pan, and set it by the fire to rise, when you seethe dough rise and nearly ready, form the other parts of the flour in a cir- cle on the table, in the centre of which put half an ounce of salt, one ounce of sugar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs, with a table spoonful of saf- fron, (mix the butter and eggs well toge- tlier before you put it to the flour) ; when all is mixed, spread it out, and put the dough upon it, and knead it in well. When the yeast is nearly mixed in, add two pounds of raisins stoned, a few at a time, have ready two copper moulds but- tered, and put in the dough ; they must be only three parts full, and set in a warm place, to rise very gently; when raised to the top of the mould, bake in a tolerable hot oven ; a brick oven is the best. Baba.*—Take the fourth part of two ounds of flour, lay it on your paste- oard or slab, and having made a hole in tlie middle of it, put in half an ounce of yeast, work it up with one hand, whilst with the other you pour in warm water ; make it into a rather soft paste, put into a wooden bowl, first pricking it m a few places, cover it with a cloth and let it stand. When it has risen well, take the remainder of the flour, and spread it on the first made paste ; mix them well together, adding to them half an ounce of salt, six eggs, a pound of fresh butter, half a pound of stoned raisins, two ounces of currants, half a jdass of Malaga wine, and a little saffron jn powder. Work them up togetlier thoroughly, roll it out two or three times, and then let it stand for six hours ; then having buttered a mould, pour in your preparation and bake it. BAGGHIG Crmni*—Put a pint and a half of white wine.with some lemon peel, coriander seed, a bit of cinnamon, and three ounces of sugar, intoa stewpan, and let them boil a quarter of an hour; then mix half a tea spoonful of flour witli the yolks of six eggs in another stewpan, and stir in by degrees the other previously boiled ingredients. When about half cold, strain the whole through a sieve and put it in a dish in hot water, over the fire, till the cream is set; lastly,take it out, and put it in a cool place till ready to serve. Bacchic SaKce.*—Put a spoonful of fine oil into a saucepan, with half a pint of good stock, and a pint of white wine, boil them together till reduced to nearly half; then put in some shallots, garden cress, tarragon, chervil, parsley, leeks, &c. all shred [very fine, season with whole pepper and salt. Boil up the whole together once ; serve with a little cullis. This sauce is good with any meat. BAGON to broil.—Make up a sheet of paper into the form of a dripping pan ; cut your bacon into thin slices, cut off' the rind, lay the bacon on the paper, put it upon the gridiron, set over a slow fire, and it will broil cleanly. Bacon and Cabbages.*—Boil some fine streaked bacon with a little stock, and the ends of eight or ten sausages ; boil in the same stock some white cabbages for about two hours, add salt and spices, and serve very hot. Place your cabbages and sausages alternately round the dish, and the bacon in the middle. Bacon Cake.*—Gut three-quarters of a pound of streaked bacon in very thin slices, and put them into a stewpan for half an hour over a slow fire ; then put a quartern and a half offlouron a pie -board; make a hole in the middle, and pour into i t the melted fat of the bacon, a 1 ittle salt, and some water; knead the paste, and let it stand an hour to rise ; then put in the slices of bacon at small distances fiom each other, so as with the paste to form a cake. Bake it an hour. Bacon, to cfr?/.—-Gut the leg of ayonng hog with a piece of the loin, and rub it well once a day, for three days, with saltpetre powdered, and brown sugar; then salt it,well to look red; let it lie for five or six weeks, and then hang it up to dry. Bacon and Eggs.*—C»i, a quarter of a pound of streaked bacon into thin slices, and put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, takingcare to turn them frequently; when sufficiently done, pour the melted fat of the bacon into a dish, break over it seven or eight eggs, add two spoonsful of gravy, a little salt and pepper, and stew the whole over a slow lire; pass a salamander over it, and serve. Bacon Froze.—Beat eight eggs into a batter, a little cream and flour, fry some thin slices of bacon, and dip them in it; lay the bacon in a frying-pan, poura little batter over them; when one side is fried.BAG (36) B AL turn, and pour more batter over tbem. When both sides are ofa good colour, lay tbem on a dish and serve hot. Bacon, Gainmo7i, to bake.—Lay it to steep all night in water, scrape it clean, and stufi' it with all manner of sweet herbs,as thyme,8age,savory,sweet mar- joram, penny-royal, strawberry leaves, violet leaves, and fennel; chop these small, and mix them with the yolks of bard eggs, pepper and nutmeg beaten, and boil it until tender. When it is cold, pare ofl'the under side, pull off the skin, season it with pepper and nutmeg, and put it in a pie or pasty, with'whole cloves and slices of raw bacon laid over it, and butter; close it, and bake it. Bacon (to 77iake).*—Rub the flitches well with common salt, and let them lie 80 that the brine may run from tliem. In about a week rub off all the salt and put them into a tub. Then rub into the flitches apoundof saltpetre,pounded and heated ; tlie next day do tire same with common salt, also heated. Let them lie a week, often rubbing, then turn and rub them ; do the same for three weeks or a month. At the end of that time dry and hang them up for use. Bacon Omelet.*—Cut some streaky bacon, which has been boiled for half an hour, into dice, and fry it simply with a bit of butter. When it begins to get crisp, pour into the frying-pan a dozen e^gs (previously beaten), stir them well with the bacon, gather up the edges of the omelet, to keep it of a proper thick- ness. Bacon Thrf.—Melt a pound of fat bacon in a frying-pan, and strain it with the bottoms of two or three artichokes, two macaroons, and the raw yolks of a couple of eggs ; season with salt, pepper, beaten cinnamon, and sugar; then set it on the fire, stirring it continually with a spoon, then put it into a patty-pan upon a very thin sheet of paste, bake it for half an liour without any covering or paste, then ice it over with icing made of sugar and orange flower water. Bacon Toast.*—Cut off the ends of a stale brick, and lard the middle with streaked bacon ; then with a very sharp knife cut tlie loaf in slices about a quarter of an incli thick, dip them in egg, and fry gently in a very hot pan, until of a good colour. Serve with clear' sauce, with a little vinegar and pepper. Bacon Toast.*—Cnt some thin slices of bread about two three inches long, cut some streaked bacon in small pieces, dip them into a raw egg beaten up with shred parsley, green onions or shallots, and pepper; fry over a slow fire and serve with clear- sauce and a little vinegar in it. B A CQUILLIO M'jV/t /ierls.—Soak your fish well; then boil and take out all the bones. Wash and chop small some spi- nach, Sorrell, green onions, and parsley; then add fresh butter, essence of ancho- vies, cayenne pepper, and plenty of Se- ville orange juice. Sweat the herbs down, add the fish, and simmer till tender. BADIANE, Indian.*—Take a pound of starred anise, pound and infuse it in six quarts of good brandy for a week, when add to it a pint and a half of water, and distil it. Dissolve seven pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, and add it to the distilled liquor. Stir it well, strain and bottle it. This is also called Badiane Cream. Some persons colour it with a little co- chineal, it is then called Oil of Badiane. BAIN Marie.—A flat vessel, contain- ing boiling water, meant to hold other saucepans, either for purposes of cookery or to keep dishes hot. The advantages of preserving the heat of dishes by the bain niU7'ie is this, that no change is eflected in the flavour of the ingredients. BAKING.—The following useful ob- servations, written by Mr. Turner, English and French Bread and Biscuit Baker, at the instance of the author of the Cook’s Oracle, are printed in that very popular work :— “Baking is one of the cheapest and most convenient ways of dressing a din- ner in small families; and 1 may say, that the oven is often the only kitchen a poor man has. if he wishes to enjoy a joint of meat at home with his family. “ I do not mean to deny the superior excellence of roasting, to baking; but some joints, when baked, so nearly ap- proach to the same when roasted, that I have known them to be carried to the table, and eaten as such with great satis- faction. “ Legs and loins of pork; legs of mut- ton ; fillets of veal; and many other joints, will bake to great advantage if the meat be good, I mean well fed, ra- ther inclined to be fat; if the meat be poor, no baker can give satisfaction. “ When baking a joint of poor meat, before it has been half baked, I have seen it start from tlie bone, and shrivel np scarcely to be believed. “ Besides those joints above-mention- ed, I sliall enumerate a few other dishes which I can particularly recommend. See Pig.Goose. Buttock of Beef, Ham." B.\LM //7;ic.—Boil twenty pounds of lump sugar in four gallons and a half of water gently for an hour, and put it in a tub to cool. Bruise two pounds of the tops of green balm, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeasu and whenBAR (37) BAR the syrup is nearly cold pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring fre- quently ; bring it up, and when it lias stood for six weeks, bottle it. Put a lump of sugar into each bottle : cork it tight. The longer it is kept, the better it will be. „ BALSAM rSywpo/).—Put an ounce of balsam of tolu into a quart of spring water, and boil tliem two hours ; add a pound of white pounded sugar-candy, and boil it half an hour longer. Take out the balsam, and strain the syrup twice ; when cold, bottle it. BAMBOO (Fnglts/i).—Cat the large young shoots of elder, take off the outer peel or skin, and lay them in strong salt ' and water one night. Dry each piece separately in a cloth. Have ready a i pickle made as follows ; to a quart of " vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, • the same of sliced ginger, a little mace 1 and pimento, pour this boiling hot on the t elder shoots, in a stone jar, stop it close, .1 and set it by the fire two hours, turning it :i often. If not green when cold, strain oft' I the liquor, boil, and pour it on as before. BANBURY Cakes. — Make some ; dough with two table spoonsful of thick ) yeast, a gill of warm milk, and a pound < of flour; when it hasworked a little, mix ) with it half a pound of currants washed I and picked, half a pound of candied I orange and lemon peel cut small, all- I spice, ginger, and nutmeg, of each a I quarter of an ounce ; mix the whole to- 1 gether with half a pound of honey. Put them into puft'paste, cut in an oval form ; I cover and sift sugar over : bake them a I quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. BARBADOES Cream.*—Take the ; zests of three fine cedrats, two di-achmsof : cinnamon, and two of mace, and put i them into three quarts of brandy ; close ! the vessel hermetically, and let it infuse I for a week, then distil it in an alembic, j Dissolve over the fire three pounds of I sugar in a quart of pure river water, add I to it half a pound of orange flower water, t work the mixture, and filter it through I a straining bag into bottles for use. _ Babbadoes fVuter.—Take the outer rind of eight large florentine cittons, half : an ounce of bruised cinnamon, and agal- ; Ion of rectified spirit; distil in the 6aiw I marie; dissolve two pounds of sugar in a I quart of water ; mix it with the distilled • liquor; filter and bottle it for use. BARBAnoES fVater (amber-coloured). ■ —Infuse theyellowrindof sixbergamots, I half an ounce of cinnamon, and two I drachms of cloves bruised, for six days I m agallon of rectified spirit; then add a drachm of safl'ron, and let the whole stand six days longer. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add it to the infusion, and filter for use. BARBEL —Boil them in salt and water ; when sufficiently done, pour away part of the water, and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, some nutmeg, mace, and the juice of a lemon ; boil these well to- gether with two or three anchovies, then put in the fish, simmer a short time, and serve it with the sauce strained over it. Shrimps or oysters may be added. Broiled.—Do them in white pepper, with sweet herbs chopped small, and butter. Barbel Broiled with Sauced I'huile.* —Take a barbel; gut it, scrape off the scales, wash it, let it drain ; wipe it dry ; and split it down the back. Then ma- rinate it in oil, with salt and whole pep- per; broil it whole, being very careful not to let it burn. Sprinkle it with oil; turn it, and take care that the white side is of a nice colour; when it is broiled, dress it a dish, and garnish with slices of lemon (taking out the pips and the white); and serve with Sauce d I'huile. Barbel, d court bouillon.—Take a good sized barbel and draw it, but not scale it; lay it on a dish, and throw on it vinegar and salt scalding hot; then put into your fish pan, white wine, ver- juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, bay- leaves, onion, lemon or orange peel, set it on the fire, and when it boils very fast, put in your barbel, and when boiled enough, take it up and serve it dry upon a clean napkin ; for garnish, parsley or garden cresses. Barbel, Poupeton of.—Scale, bone, and skin two or three barbels of a mo- derate size, lay the flesh on a table with the flesh of a good sized eel, some mush- rooms, parsley, and cives, minced and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet basil shred; pound three or four cloves, with a dozen coriander seedsin a mortar; then putin the minced fish, with a good piece of butler, and pound all together ; set these simmering in milk or cream, and about a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread ; beat up in it tlie yolks of four eggs when it is thick- ened enough, and let it stand to cool; then put into a mortar the yolks of four ravy eggs, and the bread and cream when It IS cold, and pound it well together. Then make a ragoftt of slices of barbel as follows ; first peel small mushrooms, cut some slices of barbel, rub them with melted butter, and broil them; set a saucepan over the fire with a piece of butter, when it is melted, put in a littleBAR BAR (3S flour, and brown it; tiien put in the mushrooms, and let them liave two or three turns ; put in a little fish broth to moisten them, and salt, pepper, and a faggot of sweet herbs. VVhen your bar- bie is broiled, take off the skin, cut the flesh into long slices, put them among the mushrooms in the same pan, with tails of cray-fish, and asparagus tops blanched ; let them simmer over a gentle fire. When all is enough, take the fat off yourragoflt, and put in some cullisofveal and ham ; then take it off the fire, set it to cool; rub a saucepan with fresh butter, spread of the farce over it an inch thick, or more; beat up an egg, and rub it over it to make the farce lie the smoother, place your ragofit in the bot- tom, cover the poupeton with the same farce, rub it over with beaten eggs, and liake it in an oven, or baking cover, with fire over and under it; when it is baked turn it upside-down, make a hole in the iniddleof the farce, the bigness of acrown piece; pour in some cullis of cray-fish, and serve it hot. Barbel Stewed.—Scale and gut a large barbel, wash it first in vinegar and salt, afterwards in water; put it into a stew- pan, with eel broth sufficient to cover it; add some cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a bit of cinnamon; let them stew gently till the fish is done, then take it out, thicken the sauce with butter and flour, and pour over the fish. Barbel, to Stetv.—Scald and draw the barbies, then put some wine, fresh but- ter, pepper, salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs into the stevvpan, and put in the fish ; knead a bit of butter with a little flour; and when they are ready, put it in to thicken the same, and serve it up. Another way.—Some use no butter, but otherwise dress them as above ; and when they are stewed, they serve them with a ragoflt made of mushrooms, truf- fles, morels, artichoke bottoms, fresh butter, pepper and salt, broth made of fish, or .juice of onions. BARBERRY Biscuits.—Press the juice through a sieve fron^two pounds of barberries, and mix with it five pounds of sifted sugar ; whisk the whites of four eggs, and add them to the fruit: pre- pare some square paper cases, fill them with the jam, make them quite smooth, lay them on sieves, and put them into a stove, and let them remain six or eight days. When yeifectly dry, take away the papers ; keep them in a dry place. Barberries, to Candy.—Take the barberries out of the preserve, and wash off the syrup in warm water; then sift over them some fine sugar, and set them in an oven, often moving them, and strewing sugar upon them until they are dry. nARDERRY Cow^mie.*—Putapoundof ripe barberries and half an ounce of powdered fennel seed into a silver vessel, with a glass of water ; boil them three or four times, and press the juice through a sieve. Replace the vessel on the fire with the juice, and add to it a pound and a half of sugar, boiled au casst. Boil together a few times, and then pour the conserve into cases. Barberry Conserve.—Take out the seeds from a pound and a half of very- ripe barberries, put some water into a deep silver dish or pan, and put in your barberries as you seed them ; after this boil ithem with one ounce of powdered fennel seed until the barberries are broken ; then squeeze them in a sieve or through a cloth, to extract the juice from them; clean the vessel in which you put your barberries at first; and put into it the juice just extracted from the fruit, and pour on it two pounds of sugar boiled aw cussi; then boil this preparation until the sugar is done to petit cassi; then take it off' the fire and stir it with a spoon until the sugar bub- bles up ; then pour it into moulds. Barberry Drops.—Cut off' the black tops, and roast the fruit belore the fire till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin, then set the basin into a saucepan of water the size of the top of the basin, and stir the barberries till they become thick. When cold, put to every pint a pound and a halt of the best sugar pounded as fine as possible. Beat the fruit and su- gar together for two hours and a half (or more for a large quantity), then drop it on sheets of white thick paper. If, when you drop, it runs, there is not sugar enough, and it will look rough if you put too much. Barberry Ice—Put some barberries into a pan without water, set it over a gentle fire, stirring them constantly ; when warm, pass them through a sieve, into a pan, add to the liquor clarified sugar; if to thick, put a little water, but no lemon juice, as the barberries are sufficiently acid without; then put it into the subotiire to congeal. Barberry Ice Cream.—Vat a large spoonful of barberry jam into a pint of cream ; add the juice of a lemon, and a little cochineal; stir it well, and finish as directed, sec Ice. Barberry Ice (If'ater).— Mix one spoonful of bai berry jam with the juice ofalemon, a pint of water, and a little cochineal; pass it through a sieve andBAR ( 39 ) B,A R freeze it; take care that it is tliick and smootli before you put in moulds. BARBERaY Jelly.—Pick a pint of bar- berries, and put them into a stevvpan with boiling water, cover it close and let it stand till nearly cold. Set on the. fire some clarified sugar with a little water, (making a quart together;) when it be- gins to boil, skim it well, put in the bar- berries, let them boil an hour; squeeze the juice of three lemons through a sieve into a basin, to this, pass the liquor from the barberries, and then the isin- glass. Barberry Jelly.*—Take some very ripe barberries (what quantity you please) and before you seed them take two-tbirdsof their weight in sugar. Boil your sugar au perli, then put your bar- berries into it, and give the whole a few boilings, then pass it through a silk sieve into a pan, pressing the barberries with a spoon to extract as much juice as possi- ble from them ; this done, put it again over the fire, and when you perceive it begins to form the scum, take it oft'and pour it into pots. Barberry Marchpane.*—Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of bar- berries ; pound the almonds to a paste, mix them with the sugar boiled to petit bouli, and then add the juice of the bar- berries strained ; stir them together well, and place them on hot ashes, stirring them continually unti I the paste is form- ed; then put iton a table sprinkled with sugar and let it cool; spread it out about the thickness of a crown piece; cut it into various forms, place them on sheets of paper, and bake them in a moderate oven and glaze them. You may use any other fruit you think paper. Barberry Marmalade.*—Take three pounds of very ripe barberries, the same quantity of sugar, and a pound of water : put the water into a deep broad silveror copper pan, and as you take the seedsoiit of the barberries, throw the latter into water, then give them a few boilings over the fire; after this put them into a sieve, and bruise them lo extract the pulp, which must again be put over the tire until the rnoisture has entirely evapo- rated. This done, if the pan in which you put your barberries at first was of copper, pour the pulp which was extract- ed from the fruit into an earthen vessel to prevent the acid of the fruit when heated from acting on the copper ; but if your vessel was of silver, you may safely putyoiirpulpintoit when heated, then pour upon the pulp the sugar, which must be previously clarified and boiled au cami; give the whole a few boilings. stirring it well with a wooden spoon, then pour your marmalade into pots. Barberry Dissolve half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of water, strain it in a cloth or bag, and put it into a mortar, with a spoonful of barberry marmalade; mix it well, and add as much powdersugar as will make it into a malleable paste ; you may also put in a little cochineal dissolved; form it into what shapes you please. Barberry Pickle.—Bruise and strain ripe barberries, and to a pint of juice put three pints of vinegar, a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of pounded ginger. Boil all together, skimit clean, and pour it while boiling into jars, in which have been put bunches of ripe barberries. When cold,add a little bruised cochineal. Tie them close. Barberriesprexeruetf in Bunches.*— Choose those barberries which have the largest seeds, which may be extracted carefully with the nib of a pen. Weigh your fruit, and mix it with an equal weight of sugar boiled to petit houU; boil them together two or three times, and skim it. Set it aside in an earthen ves- sel until the next day, when it may be put in pots and covered. _ BARBERRiEsS<eioerf.*—Take large and ripe barberries of a fine red colour, and pick them. Boil sugar to laphtme, and then throw in your barberries, and do them togother seven or eight times. Skim, and put it into pots. Barberry Syrwp.—Pick the barber- ries, boil and pulp them, then strain them, and clarify the juice ; then boil it up with as many pounds of fine sugar into a syrup, and if that does not make it thick enough, add more sugar. Barberry /Fb/e«.—Press out the juice from as many barberries as you may require, and mix it with powder sugar, and the white of one egg, and stir it up with a wooden or silver spoon, to a fine paste. Lay a sheet of water paper on a baking plate, and spread your paste over it very thin with a knife ; cut it into twe ve pieces, and put them round a Stick fine paste upwards) in a hot stove to curl ; when half curled, take them off carelully, and set them up endways in a sieve; let tliem stand for a whole day in a hot stove. Barberry fViter.— Put two large spoonstul of barberry jam, the juice of two lemons and a gill of syrup in a basin, and dilute it with water; add a little cochineal, and if not rich enough, more syrup : strain it through a fine sieve. BARLEY Broth.—Chop a leg of beef in pieces, boil it in three gallons of water, lit 2BAR (40 BAR with a carrot and a crust of bread, till reduced to half; tlien strain it oil and put it into the pot again with half a pound of barley, four or five heads of celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, a little chojjped parsley, and a fewmarigolds. Let it boil an hour. Take an old cock or large fowl and put it into the pot, boil it till the broth is quite good. Season with salt, take out the onion and herbs, and serve it. The fowl may be omitted. Barlev Crmw.—Boil a small quantity of pearl barley in milk and water, till tender, strain oft' the liquor, and put the barley into a quart of cream, to boil a little. Then take the whites of five eggs and the yolk of one, beat them with one spoonful of Hour, and two of orange flower water. Take the cream from the fire, mix the eggs in by degrees, and set it over the fire again to thicken. Sweeten it, and pour into cups or glasses for use. Barley, Gruel—Take: three ounces of pearl barley, of which make a quart of barley-water; if it be not white, shift it once or twice ; put in two ounces of cur- rants clean picked and washed, and when they are plumped, pour out the gruel and let it cool a little; then put in the yolks of three eggs well beaten, half a pint of white wine, and of new thick cream half a pint, and lemon peel; then sweeten with fine sugar to your taste; stir it gently over the tire, until it is thick as cream. Barley Posset.—Boil a pound of French barley in three quarts of milk ; when boiled enough, put in three quarts of cream, some cinnamon and mace, sweeten it with sugar ; let it stand until it is but just warm, then put in a quart of white wine, frotli it up; to be eaten either with a spoon, or press out the liquor to drink. Barley Pudding.*—Take a pound of pearl barley well washed, three quarts of new milk,one quartof cream,and half a pound of double refined sugar, a grated nutmeg, and some salt; mix them well together, then put them into a deep pan, andbake it; then takeitoutof the oven, and put into it six eggs well beaten, six ounces of beef marrow, and a quarter of a pound of grated bread ; mix all well together; then put it into another pan, bake it again, and it will be excellent. Barley (French) Pudding.—Put to a quart of cream, six eggs well beaten, lialf the whites, sweeten to your palate, a little orange flower water, or rose water, and a pound of melted butter; then put in six handfuls of French barley that has previously been boiled tender in milk, butter a dish, and put it in. ft will take as long baking as a venison pasty. Brrley (Peart) Puddinf(. Get a pound of pearl barley, wasli it clean, put to it three quarts of new milk, and half a pound of double refined sugar, a nut- meg grated ; then put it into a deep pan, and bake it. Take it out of the oven, heat up six eggs, mix all well together, butler a dish, pour it in, hake it again an hour, and it will be excellent. Barley Soup.—Wash your barley well in warm water, then boil it in good broth slowly, adding a little butter ; give it substance with either Cray fish cullis « la Reine, or any other, or without any, if you like it better plain. Barley Sugar.*—Clarify two pounds of sugar, and boil it to caramel height, in a deep copper vessel with a lip; pour it in straight lines about an inch thick, on a marble slab previously rubbed with butter. Whilst hot, take each end of the strips of sugar and twist it; when cold cut it into proper lengths and put them by in glasses. They must be kept in a dry place. Barley Sugar Drops.—Proceed as for barley sugar. Have ready a large sheet of white paper, covered with a smooth layer of sifted sugar. Pour out the boiled sugar in drops the size of a shilling ; when cold, fold them separately in paper: a few drops of the essence of ginger or lemon will improve the flavour. Barley Syrup.—Make of a pound of barley three quarts of barley water; strain out the barley, and put to the water a handful of scabious, tormentil, hyssop, agrimony.horehound, maiden hair sanicle,betony,burage.bugloss,rosemary, marigolds, sage, violets and cowslips, of each a pint, when picked ; a pound of sun raisins stoned, half a pound of figs cut, a quarter of a pound of dates stoned ; half a poundof green liquorice,carraway,fennel and aniseed, of each one ounce, harts- horn, ivy, elecampane roots, of each an ounce ; the roots of fennel, asparagus, couchgr.ass, polipodium,and oak parsley, of each a handlul ; clean, bruise the seeds, slice the roots, and put all into the barley water, cover close, and boil gently for twelve hours ; then strain and pressoutthejuice,andlet it stand twen- ty-four hours ; when clear, add to it rose- water and hyssop, half a pint of each, and a pint of clarified juice of coltsfoot, a drachm of sallron, three pints of the best honey, and as many pounds of sugar as quarts of liquor, lioil this an hour and a half, keeping it clean .scummed, then bottle it, cork it well, and put by for use. Barley //nfer.—Put a quarter of a poutid of pearl barley into two quarts ofB EA BEA (41) water, let it boil, skim it very clean, boil half away, and strain it ofl'. Siveeten accoi-ding to taste, and put in two glasses of white wine, or some lemon juice. Drink it warm. Bauley IVine,—Boil half a pound of French barley in three waters, save about three pints of the last water, and mix it with a quart of white wine, lialf a pint of borage water, as much clary water, a li t- tle red rose water, the juice of five or six lemons, three quarters of a pound of sugar, the rind of a lemon. Strain and bottle it up. B ASIL Vinegar or (Vine.—Fill a wide mouthed bottle with fresh green leaves of Basil, and cover tliem with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days ; if you wish a very strong essence, strain the liquor, put it on some fresh leaves, and let it steep fourteen days longer. BATH Btins.—Rub together, with the hand, one pound of fine flour and half a pound ol butter; beat six eggs, and add them to the flour with a table spoonful ofgood yeast. Mixthemaltogether with halfa teacup fullof milk; set itin a warm place for an hour; mix in six ounces of sifted sugar, and a few carraway seeds. Mould them into buns with a table spoon on a baking plate ; throw six or eight car- raway comfits on each, and bake them in a hotoven about ten minutes. These quantities should make eighteen buns. BATTER for Fish, Meat, Fritters, &(c.—Prepare it with fine flour, salt, a little oil, beer, vinegar, or white wine and the whites of eggs beat up ; when of a pro- perthickness it will drop out of the spoon about the size of a nutmeg at once. Fry in oil or hog’s lard. Batter Pudding.—Take six spoonsful of flour, put them in astewpan with about a tea spoonful of salt and half a nutmeg grated ; mix this up with about a pint and a half of new milk; beat up six eggs in a basin and stir them well in the bat- ter ; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it tight with a cloth, and boil it two hours and a half ; serve with wine sauce. This, pudding may also be baked, for which three quarters of an hour are sufficient. Currants or stoned raisins may be added. Batter Pudding without Eggs.—Mix six spoonsful of flour with a small por- tion of a quart of milk ; and when smooth add the remainder of the milk, a tea spoonsful of salt, two tea spoonsful of grated ginger, and two of tincture of saffron ; stir all together well, and boil it an hour. Fruit may be added or not. BEANS d I’Anglaise.'—Cut, wash, and boil the beans, and then throw them into a cullender. Pul a piece of butter into your table-dish, lay the beans on it, and garnish them with chopped parsley laid round like a cord ; heat the dish and serve. Beans Boiled.—Boil them in water, with plenty of salt in it, till tender. Boil and chop parsley, put it into melted butter, and serve it as sauce. Another xuay.—Boil in salt and water with a bunch of savoury; drain,and then put them into a ste'vpan with five spoons- ful of sauce tournie reduced, the yolks of three eggs and a little salt, add apiece of fiesh butter, and stir it constantly till of a proper thickness. Bean Bread.—Is made in the same way as almond bread; leave out the musk or ambergris, if you please. Bean Cakes.—Take an equal quantity of fine sugar and blanched almonds cut in slips lengthways; slice some preserved orange, lemon, and citron peel; beat the white of an egg to a froth with a little orange flower water ; put as much of it into tlie sugar as will just wet it; and with the point of a knife build up your almonds, piling it round as high as you can upon a wafer; put some ambergris also to your sugar, and bake them. Beans it la Creme.—Are done in the same way as a la Macedoine, omitting the artichokes and wine ; but when strewed, thicken with cream and yolks of eggs. Beans <i la Macedoine.—Shred some parsley, green onions, mushrooms, and savory, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butler rolled in flour; moisten with stock and white wine; let it boil over a slow fire : then put in three artichoke bottoms, previously blanched inboilingwater.and cutin small squares, with a quartern of young garden beans, the skins off, and parboiled ; stew them, season with salt and pepper, take out the herbs, and serve the beans with the sauce thick. Beans with Parsnips.—Take two large parsnips, scrape them clean, and boil them in water. When tender take them up, scrape all the soft into a saucepan, add to them four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter of the size of a hen’s egg, chop them in a saucepan well ; and when they are quite thick, heap them up in the middle of the dish, and a ragout of beans all round. Beans <1/ft Poulette.*—Put them into a stewpan with some butter, parsley, green onions and a little savoury; shake them over the fire, add a little flour, a lump of sugar and a little stock. When done put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up with a little milk. Beans (Parte of white).—Chop some onions, and fry them lightly in a little E 3(42) BE BE A butter and flour, and moisten with a spoonful or two of broth. Let tlie onions be thoroughly done; boil the beans in this for liall an hour, season them well without any pepper, and strain them through a tammy. Reduce the purde over a brisk fire, take off the white scum, and before you serve refineitwith a bit of fresh butter and two spoonsful of thick cream ; garnish with fried crusts of bread. This may be made brown by frying the onions a deep colour, and moistening them with espagnole or veal gravy. Bean Tanscy.—Take two quarts of beans, blanch and beat them very fine in a mortar ; season with pepper, salt and mace; then put in the yolks of six eggs, and a quarter of a pound of butter, a pint of cream, half a pint of sack, and sweeten according to your taste. Soak four Naples biscuits in half a pint of milk, mix them with the other ingre- dients, half a pint of the juice of spinach, with two or three sprigs of tansey beat with it. Butter a pan, and bake it, then turn it on a dish, and stick it all over with candied citron and orange peel cut small. Garnish with Seville orange. Bean Tarts.—Make a puli' paste, and put into your patty pans ; then boil green beans, blanch them, and put into the paste a layer of beans, and a layer of various sweetmeats, but no quinces, strewing a little loaf sugar between each layer ; put in some juice of lemon, also some marrow seasoned with salt, cloves, mace, nutmeg, candied lemon or orange eel; cover the patties, make a small ole at top, and put in a little lemon- juice; then bake them, and when taken out of the oven, put in some white wine thickened with the yolk of an egg, and a bit of butter. To be eaten hot. Beans('French)en Allumette.*—Wash, pick and blanch your beans ; throw them into cold water j cutoff the ends,and finish boiling them with a little brandy ; drain, then dip in batter, and fry them of a light colour; whilst hot sprinkle sugar over and glaze them. Beans (French) in Black Butter.*— ■When the beans are scalded, drain them well; season them \vitb salt and pepper, and having placed them in your dish, pour some black butter (see Black Butter) over them, and serve. Another way.*—Having well drained the beans, colour some butter in a stew pan, and then toss up your beans in it, over a large fire; sea.son, and then place them in a dish for table; add a little vinegar. Beans (French) la Bretonne.*— Cut an onion or two into dice, and put them in a saucepan with some butter, over a stove; when they begin to brown add some espagnole, or a pinch of flour ; as soon as the onions and flour are- suf- ficiently brown, moisten them with a ladleful of good gravy, season with salt and whole pepper; reduce this sauce, and having boiled the beans put them into it, and simmer all together. Beans (French)en Buisson.*—Choose your beans as near of a size as you can ; split, wash, and boil them as usual; when done, put them into cold water, and as soon as your beans are cold, drain them in a cullender, then dry them in a napkin ; toss them up with some oil, vinegar, salt, mignonette, shred pars- ley and shallot. Dress the beans in a crot(stade,\n the same way as Asparagus en Croustade. Beans (French) to keep.*—Gather them as for daily use, and string them ; put them into bottles, if large, cut them ; shake the bottles that the be-ins may fall close, and proceed as with Windsor beans. fVhite Beans are done in the same way, but they must not be gather- ed until the shell has turned yellowish ; these must be two hours in the bain- marie. One hour is enough for the green. Beans (Fretich) to keep.—Gather them on a dry day, and lay them in the sun. Keep them in a dry place in papers; before you use them, put them in warm water. Beans (French) Lids.*—Scald your beans, drain and cool them ; put into a saucepan two ounces of butter and some sweet herbs chopped fine. When the butter is hot, add two spoonsful of flour, a glass of stock, a little salt and pepper ; as soon as the sauce boils, put in the beans, and toss them up; just before you serve them thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. You may add lemon-juice if you think proper. Beans ('/'Veae/i) “i la Lionaise.*—Cut some onions in slices, and fry them of a good colour in oil; add to them some French beans previously boiled in salt water with shred parsley, salt and pep- per ; toss them up with the onions. Place them in your dish ; heat some vinegar in the frying-pan, and pour it over them. Beans (French) h la MaUrc d'Hdiel.* —Prepare your beans as for boiling ; put into a stew pan a piece of butler, shred Carsley and green onions ; when the utter is melted, add the French beans, turn them a few times over the fire, shake in some flour, and moisten with a little good stock, well seasoned ; boil till the sauce is consumed ; then put in theB EA (43) BE A yolks of three eggs, beat up with some milk ; and, lastly, add a little vinegaror verjuice. Ciillis or veal gravy may be used instead of the eggs. Beans (^Vene/j)pickled.—Lay them in salt and water for nine days, then add a little vinegar,and boil them in the liquor; when they become green, drain, wipe them dry. and put the beans into a jar. Boil some vinegar, ginger, mace pepper, cloves, and mustard seed, all bruised, and, while hot, pour it on the beans. Cover them close when cold. Beans (French) d la Pi’ovetifale.—TioW your beans in salt and water, drain and lay them on the fire in a atewpan until perfectly dry and hot. Squeeze two small pieces of garlick on the dresser with a wooden spoon, mixed with a little fresh butter; put this and a quarter of a pound of butter to the beans, and stir it well till properly combined. Mix some parsley, sbalots, and green onions, chopped fine, and a little olive oil. Keep stirring, season it well, and add the juice ol a lemon. Serve it very hot. Beans (b'rench) llugoM of.—Do not split, but cut your beans in two, fry and drain them: shake over a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, an onion, a little pouTided cloves, cayenne, and salt; some ketchup ; boil them together, shaking it. Take out the onion, and serve hot. Beans (French) Ragout of, d I'An- glaise.—Take a quarter of a peck of beans, string and cut them across, but do not split them, lay them in salt and water a short time, and then dry them thoroughly in a coarse cloth. Fry them of a nice brown, and having poured off all the fat, piu in a quarter of a pint ol hot water, stir it and let it boil; then add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter rolled m flour, two spoonsful of catsup, one of mushroom pickle, four of white, an onion stuck with six cloves, pounded mace, half a nutmeg grated, pepper and salt; stir all together vvell, throwin the beans, shake them about a minute or two, take out the onion, and dish the beans with the sauce. Garnish as you please. Bea.vs (French) Ragout, with Cabbage. —Choose a nice close cabbage, and hav- ing cleaned and trimmed it, parboil, and take out great part of the middle, which must be chopped very small with a lew boiled French beans, a carrot, and a tur- nip, also boiled ; mash together, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and stew them a few minutes with some butter, stirring all the time. In the mean while tie up the cabbge that it may not fall to pieces, and put it into a saucepan with four spoonsful of water, two of wine, one of catsup, the same of mushroom pickle, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a little pepper; cover it close, and stew it gently ; when tender, place it in the table-dish, fill it with the mashed root, and put around it the ragoflt of beans as above, and serve it hot. The liquor the cabbage was boiled in may be added. Beans (French) RagoM, with Force- meat.—a ragofit of French beans, as directed d I’Anglaise; mash two large well-boiled carrots, season them with pepper and salt; mix with them a piece of butter and the yolks of two eggs; put this into a dish, form it according to your fancy, bake it for a quarter of an hour in a quick oven ; when done, clean your dish, pour the ragofit round, and serve. Beans (French) RagoM), with Par- snips.—Boil two large pasnips till quite tender, then scrape them into a sauce- pan. adding four spoonsful of cream, a piece of butter the size of anegrg; mash all together well, and when quite thick, put it into a dish with the ragofit of French beans round. Beans (FVenc/i) RagoM,withPotatoes. —Boil two poundsof potatoes thoroughly, peel, and put them into a saucepan with half a pint of milk, a little salt, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir it con- stantly ; when it becomes so thick that the-spoon will hardly move, butter an earthen dish, and put in the potatoes; flour and pour melted butter and bread crumbs over; set it in a Dutch-oven, and when brown, place it in a dish very carefully, and serve with the ragoflt of beans round it. Beans (French) Satorf.*—Boil them simply, drain, and let them cool; put them in a dish, and garnish with parsley, pimpernel, and tarragon. Dress like other salads. Beans (French) with fVinc.*—Brown some sliced onions in butter, and mix with them some French beans, boiled and drained as usual, add wine, and sea- son them with pepper and salt. Beans (Garden) preserved.'—Shell the beans when they are about half an inch long, and blanch them, put them into bottles with a bunch of savory in each, close the bottles hermeticallj, and pro- ceed according to the directions for pre- serving asparagus. Leave them in the bain marie one hour and a half. If you wish to preserve them in their coats, take care to put them into bottles the moment they are shelled, as they change colour so quickly. An hour in the bain marie is sullicient for these.( 44 BEE BEE Bean (ffrcen) Pudding. —BoU and bUnch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an pg:g. A little spinach .juice to colour it. Boil in a basin that will just hold it an hour; pour par- sley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. Beans (fVhiteKidnctj)with Gravy.*— Boil and drain your beans ; make a light roMg?, and mix it with some gravy, salt, epper, and a little vinegar; throw the eans, into the sauce, and serve hot. BECCAFICOS.* -These birds are roasted, covered with bacon, and toast put under. Baste, while roasting, with lard, and serve witha sprinkling of lemon or verjuice. BECHAMELLE.* — Reduce some sauce tourrde over a good fire, moisten with chicken broth or consommi.. con- stantly stirring to prevent its catching; when of the proper consistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, continue stirring; pass it through a hair sieve, and serve. Bechamelee Cake.—Boil a pint of cream with a few pounded sweetalmonds and a little coriander seed, then strain it; use to it about a pound of flour, three eggs, and about as much butter as will make it into a paste, finish like all other paste, and make into cakes, what shape or size you please. Bechamelle, Petits Pdtis of.*—RoW out some puff' paste, and line with it some small custard moulds, fill them up with paste, and bake in a hot oven; then roll out some more paste for the lids, and with a paste cutter, rather larger than your moulds, cut out an equal number of pieces, durez them, put a little lozenge on the top of each, and bake them. When these are done,take Ihecroustades, trim and dorez them lightly, and having dried them in the oven, fill them with bechamelle. Bechamelle Sauce.*—Put intoa stew- pan some veal and ham cut into dice, carrots, cloves, onions, laurel leaves, shalots, parsley, and scallions, all chop- ped small; pepper, grated nutmeg, a little salt and butter, a little velouU and consommi. Reduce it to half, and then put in some cream ; mix it well with your sauce. Boil all together over a quick fire, shaking it constantly, for an hour; if thick enough, strain it through a sieve. BEEF.*—Tosecurc prime beef or any other butchers’ meat of superior quality, for the lardei’, it is indispensable to deal with a reputable butcher, as he will neither purchase nor kill inferior stock. Certain economical caterers, however, will not confine themselves to any parti- cular tradesman. To such it is recom- mended to bear their wits about them to the shambles, for that shopkeeper that cannot secure a constant customer, ac- cording to the moral usages of a market is less regardful of his reputation, and there is a general feeling of exultation amongst the shopkeepers in a market- place, when one of these shamble- hunting providersgets himself outwitted. He must be cunning indeed who is a match for the market-folks. The vigilance of three senses is ne- cessary to these perambulating pur- veyors, the sight, the touch, and the smell ; although the skilful provider w\\\ depend alone upon the eye, as prime meat bears its sterling character on the surface. True well-fed beef may be known at once to the skilful eye, by the texture and colour; thelean will exhibit an open grain of a deep coral red, and the fat will appear of an healthy, oily smoothness, inclining to white rather than yellow. The suet firm and white. Yellow fat is generally a sutficient lest of inferior beef, though it is a common error to suppose the yellow tinge is a certain sign of the beast having been fed on oil-cake. Oxen fatted for slaughter on corn and turnips, will when killed frequently exhibit yel- low fat. Heifer-beef of prime quality is scarcely inferior to ox-beef: the texture of the lean, however, is of a closer grain, of a paler coral red, and the fat whiter than that of ox-beef. Cow-beef is also distinguished from that of the ox, by the same characteristics, only that in proportion to its greater age its texture will be still closer, the flesh more coarse to the sight, and harder to the touch. It has been a practice amongrst a many farmers to feed oxen and calves on oil cake, though by no means so prevalent now as at that period when, a few years ago, experimental agriculturists sought to improve nature, by crossing her in all her operation^, until he that had bred the most perfect monster obtained the greatest prize. That much new and use- htl light has been thrown upon the sub- jectof breeding and feeding.isgenerally acknowledged, to the credit of many scientific gentlemen, who have devoted their time and fortune to these pursuits; but the artificial means resorted to, to effect these ends, if pushed a little fur- ther, would have excluded wholesome beef and mutton from the larder. The best beef, and that which is sought by tlie most reputable butchers, is that of the Scotch cattle, which, at riving fromUEE (45) BEE tlie north, is fed in English pastures. Many counties feed tliis stock, but Nor- folk has the preference, where the far greater number are fed. Heifers are usually fit for the slaughter from two to three years old. The ox is slaughtered from three to five years old. The Devon and Hereford breed, aflord rime beef, to which the Lincolnshire reed is generally not to be compared. The Susse.'c ox is not uncommonly slaughtered at seven years, being previ- ously worked at the plough. With regard to artificial feeding, whether on oil-cake or other nutriment, to increase the flesh of animals for the slaughter, the result is held to be, “ that though generally the lean of fat animals is the most tender and palatable, yet that this is not so much the case when the fat is rapidly produced by artificial management in the feeding.” (See the articles Mutton, Pork, &c.) Beef d I’Anglaise.—Take a rump of beef, or any piece you like better of the same size; tie it up neatly with pack- thread, and put it into a stewpan with two or three carrots, a parsnip, three or fouronions, a bunch of parsley and green onions,a clove of garlic, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil ; moisten with some stock or water, season,and let the beef stew gently till half done, then put in a few small, cabbage.s, prepared in the following man- ner : boil a large cabbage, and having squeezed.it perfectly dry, take off the leaves one by one, and put within each leaf a little veal or other forcemeat, surrounding it with three or four more of the leaves, in such a manner as to form little cabbages, something larger than an egg; tie these with packthread, and let them be stewed with the beef. When the whole is done, clean away the outside loose fat, and put your beef in a dish, cut thelittlecabbages in half, and place them round the dish,with the cut side outward. Take a little of the stew, strain it through a sieve, and having skimmed ofl the fat, add a little cullis to thicken it. Reduce this over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, serving it over the meat and cab- bages. Beef Amourettes in Marinade.—Beef amourettes are prepared and dressed exactly the same as beef brains ; when they are done, let them drain, then cut them into equal lengths, and fry them in batter. Beef Baked.—Let a huttock of beef which has been in salt about a week, be well washed and put into an earthen pan, with a pint of water; cover the pan tight with two or three sheets of foolscap paper; let it bake four or five hours in a moderately heated oven. Beef Baked like Red Deer to be eaten csW.—Cut buttock of beeflongways with the grain, beat it well with a rolling-pin, and broil it; when it is cold, lard it, and marinate it in wine vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace,and two or three bay leaves, for two or three days; then bake it in rye paste; let it stand till it is cold; then fill it up with butter ; let it stand for a fortnight before itis eaten. Beef Bouilli."—Take a rump of beef, or part of one ; bone and tie it together in aneat form, and put it into a pot, with any odd bits of butcher’s meat you may happen to have in the house, either beef, veal, or mutton ; you may add, also, the bones, feet, and necks of poultry or game, the meat of which has been taken for other dishes; place your pot on a mode- rate fire, not quite full of water, and skim gently. When it has boiled a short time, put in some salt, turnips, six car- rots, and six onions, into one of which you should stick three cloves; add a bunch of leeks. Let the whole boil gently, till the beef is perfectly done ; then take it out, and serve it up either with fresh parsley, with a sauce, or with onions or other vegetables. Beef (Boiled) to eat cold.—Slice your beef as thin as possible, and also an onion or shalot; then squeeze on it the juice of a lemon or two, and beat all together between two plates.; when it is well beaten, and tastes sharp of the lemon, put it into a deep dish, pick out the onion, and pour oil on it, shred some parsley and strew over it, and garnish it with lemon, and serve. Beef Boiled with sweet Herbs.*—Line the bottom of a dish with butter, sweet herbs chopped, and bread grated fine, put upon this your beef, cut as small as possible, cover it with sweet herbs, pieces of butter, and bread grated fine; let it cook over a gentle fire, put fire also on the lid of your saucepan, when the beef is completely browned, serve it. You may add pickled girkins or capers. Beef Bruins.*—Put the brains into tepid water to cleanse them from the blood, and to take oft'the thin skin which cover them; take them out and put them into more tepid water ; afterwards put them into boiling water to blanch them; when they have been a few minutes iti the boiling water take them out, and put them into fresh water; cook them in a proper quantity of water, with the juice of a lemon, an onion cut in slices, some parsley, and some bay leaves.BEE (46) BEE Beef Brains en Sauce Aurora.*—WaW wash four beef brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine; when they are done, divide them into sixteen pieces, snliitintj each lialf brain Uirough the middle; dress them on a dish in the form of a crown, and serve with Aurora sauce. Beef Drains au Deurre Noir.*—Well wash your brains to cleanse them from the blood, the skin, and fibres, that are about the brains; then put them into lukewarm water to soak for two hours ; after which put them into a stewpan be- tiveen slices of bacon, with bay leaves, sliced onions,carrots, parsley, scallion, a glass of white wine, and some stock; let the whole simmer for half an hour; drain them, and serve with black butter, poured all over, and fried parsley in the middle. Beef Brains au Beurre Noir.*—Cook some brains in a marinade, then leave them to drain; serve them on a dish with sauce au beurre noir, and garnish with fried parsley. Brains may be served with any sauce you please. Beef Brains Fried.*—Let your brains be properly marinated, then leave them to drain, make a preparation with warm water, a little butter and salt, some flour, a spoonful of oil, and the whites of eggs whipped to snow, mix all together to the consistence of batter, dip your brains into this batter, and then fry them a nice brown colour, when fried let them drain on a dry cloth ; garnish with fried parsley. B VIETBrainsen Marinade.*—Well wash your brains, scald them, and put them into a marinade; then make some baiter, dip your brains into it, and then fry them, taking care that the batter is not too hot. If it so happens that you wish to fry brains which have been previously dressed, you must cut them in pieces, season them with salt and pepper, then put them into .just suflicient vinegar to cover them ; afterwards drain them, put them into batter and fry them. Beef Brains en Matelotte.*—Have ready a little Spanish sauce, add to it a glass of red or white wine, some small onions browned in butter, and some tnusbrooms, then cut your brains into pieces, and put them into this prepara- tion,pive itasingle boil, and then serve. Garnish with artichoke bottoms, cray- fish, crusts of bread, and sweetbreads. Beef Brains d Ut sauce piqi/ante.*— Prepare and dress your brains tbe same as for Brains au beurre noir. Drain them, put them on a dish, and pour a sauce piquante all over them. Beef Brains d la Paulette *—Well wash some brains, blanch them, and cook them in a marinade of white wine, then make boiling hot a reduced German sauce, adding some mushrooms, some parsley, and a quarter of a pound of but- ter, the juice of a lemon, some whole pepper, stirring it well to keep it from oiling, sauce the brains with this prepa- ration, and serve very hot. Beef Brains d la Paulette.* — Put some brains into a stewpan, with a suf- ficient quantity of butter; sprinkle in a little flour, moisten with a little water, add somesmallonions, champignons,and a bunch of sweet herbs; season according to taste, and let it cook over a gentle fire ; when ready to serve, thicken with tbe yolks of eggs beat up with the juice of a lemon. Beef Brains au Soleil.*—Well wash your brains, blanch them and cook them in a marinade of white wine. Then cut them in halves, put them in a dish, sauce and mash them with a good German sauce, well reduced, and add a little of the marinade, and a few sweet herbs, <i papiltotes. When the brains are cold, egg and bread them : then fry them; when fried, arrange tliem on a dish in form of a crown, and serve with clear aspic sauce. Beef <t la Brm'se.—Take two or three ribs of beef, cut away only the fleshy part that is next the chine, and take away all the fat, lard it with pretty large lardons of bacon, seasoned with spices, sweet herbs, parsley, young onions, a small quantity of mushrooms, and truf- fles, shred very small. Having larded the beef, tie it into a neat form with packthread, and put it into a stewpan, having previously lined the bottom of the stewpan with thin slices of fat ba- con, and over them lay slices of lean beef about an inch thick, beaten well and seasoned with spice, sweet herbs, onions, lemon peel, bay leaves, salt and pepper; then put in your beef, laying the fleshy side downwards that it may take the belter relish of the seasoning; then season the upper part as you did the lower, and lay over it slices of beef, and over them slices of bacon, as you did at the hottom ; then cover the stew- pan and close it well all round the edge of the cover with paste ; then put fire on the cover of your stewpan as well as under. When the beef is sufficiently stewed take it up. and let itdrain a little, then lay it in a dish, and pour the fol- lowing ragout upon it. While your beef is stewing make a ragout as follows. Take vetil sweet-BEE (47) BEE breads, livers of capons, miisliroonis, tiufilea. tops of asparagus, and bottoms of artichoke, toss tliese up with some melted bacon, moisten them with good gravy, and thicken it with acullus made of veal and gammon of bacon. Beef £rofA.—Take a leg of beef, crack the bone in two or three parts, wash it clean, put it into a pot with a gallon of water, skim it well, then put in two or tliree blades of mace, a little bundle of parsley, and a crust of bread ; let it boil till the beef is quite tender, toast some bread, cut it into dice, put them in a tureen ; lay in the meat, and pour the Boup over it. Beef Cakes (for a side-dish of dressed Meat.)—'PoxxnA some beef that is under done with a little fat bacon or ham ; sea- son with pepper, salt, and a little shallot or garlick ; mix them well: and make it into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide and thick ; fry them in a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. Beef (cold) Broiled in Paper.—Soak some slices of cold beef in a marinade made of oil or butter, parsley, shallots, mushrooms, pepper and salt; roll the pieces in paper with this sauce, rub tbe paper with butter, broil on a slow fire, and serve in the paper. Beef Collared.—Choosethethin endof theflan kof fine mellowbeef,but not too fat; lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, ana keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part,and cover itthick with the following seasoning cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper,salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight w bile hot, without undoing it; the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef looks and eats very well. Beef Collared.—Lay a flank of beef in ham brine a fortnight, dry it in a cloth ; take out the leather and skin, cut it across and across ; season it with spice, two anchovies, a handful of thyme, parsley, sweet marjoram, winter sa- vory, onions, and fennel; strew it on the meat,_roll it in a hard collar in a cloth, sew it, tie it at both ends, and put it in acollar pot, with a pint of red wine, cochineal, and two nuarts of pump water. VVhen cold, take it out of the cloth. Beep Cof/ops.—Take the fillet from the under part of a rump of beef, cut it into small thin slices, and fry them till three parts done; then add to them slices of pickled cucumbers, small mushrooms stewed, blanched oysters, some good seasoned cullis, and stew them till tender. Beef Chitterlings.—Take the entrails of beef, carefully clean them, cut them, and marinate them five or six hours in a glass of Madeira, or other white wine, two cloves of garlick, thyme, bay and basil; cut into fillets some ox palates, or ox tongue and tripe, each first three parts boiled ; also cut into small pieces, cow’s udder and pickled pork ; mix the whole of these together, and add sliced onions, fried in butter or lard, four yolks of eggs raw, salt, and the best spices: with these, fill the entrails, and boil them half an hour in fat broth, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, three spices of cloves, sliced car- rots and parsnips, and let them cool in their liquor. Wipe them well before you broil them. Beef Cullis.—Roast a pi ece of buttock of beef very brown ; then cut off all the brown part, and whilst hot beat it in a mortar, with some partridge (or fowl), and crusts of bread, then put it into a stewpan with some strong gravy and good broth ; season with salt, pepper, cloves, thyme, sweet basil, and a piece of green lemon. Give the whole four or five boilings, then strain it for use. Beef d la Daube.—Take a round, a rump, or a veiny piece of beef, lard it with bacon, half roast it, or fry it brown ; put it into a stewpan or a pot that will just hold it; add some gravy, an onion stuck with cloves, half a pint ol white wine, a gill of vinegar, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, cloves, mace, and salt; cover it down very close, let it but jus t si mmer till it is tender; take two ox palates, tivo sweetbreads, truffles, morels, artichoke bottoms, stew them all together in some gravy, and pour over the beef; have ready some forced meat balls fried, make some long, others round, dip some sippets into batter, fry and cutthem three corner ways, and stick them into the meat; lay the balls round the dish. Beef Dolpettes d I'Italienne.*—Take some cold roast fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop up your meat as small as possible, and put into a re- duced boiling Spanish sauce, adding a little crumb of bread, a little grated par- mesan cheese, some whole pepper, and two eggs ; then leave it to cool. Wlien cold, mould them into large balls; rub them over with egg, and then strew them over with grated parmesan cheese and bread crumbs; fry them in clarifiedBEE 48 BEE butter or batter; let them drain, and then simmer them in love-apple sauce ; serve them on a dish with love-apple sauce over them. Bkef Ears.—Beef ears, well scalded like calves, may be made tender in a strong braze, full of strong herbs and spices; theyshould be afterwards broiled, and served with a cullis or relishing sauce. Beef d I'icarlate."—Take a rump of beef, bone it, lard it, season it with salt and spices, rub it well with saltpetre. Put it into a pan with juniper berries, tby me,basil,garlick,laurel leaves,clovea, and onions cut in slices ; cover the pan close, so as to exclude all air. At the end of five or six days, turn your beef, co- ver the pan again, and let it remain for five or six days longer; then take it out of the pan, put it in a clean cloth and tie it with packthread, then put it into a stew- pan with some water, carrots, onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, let it stew for se- veral hours, according to the size of your meat. When it is done, serve it in a tu- reen, and pour over it the liquor in which it has stewed. You may serve it the next day as a cold dish. Beef (Entre-cote of) Broiled.*—Take the sliceof beef which isobtained between any two of the ribs, and take out the si- newy parts, then cut it to aliout the thick- ness of two fingers, beat it flat, andspriii- kle it over with salt and pepper. Put it on the gridiron over a clear fire. When itisdone, serve itwith asause(i/nmaifre d’hdtel or a sauce piguante. Beef (Fillet of) d VAmiral.—Slice five or six onions, and fry them in butter; then take two anchovies, split them into seve- ral pieces, a little grated bacon, two yolks of eggs, a little salt, and powder of basil; scald the fillet of beef in boiling water, cut in different slices without separating, and between them put some of the stuf- fing, tie it up in veal caul and roast it; serve with cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. Beef (Fillet of) and Anchovies.—Soak five or six anchovies in water about two hours, split them, and lay the fillet with them intermixed with bacon ; boil it on a slow fire, with a little broth and a glass of white wine, one clove of garlick, two cloves, and a faggot; when done, sift the sauce, add a liit of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of creamj and a few small capers whole ; make a liaison, and serve it upon the fillet. Beef (Fillet of) en Chevreuil.*—Take a piece of the fillet (about a pounds, and cut it into four or five parts ; after hav- ing cut off' the fat and taken out the sinewy parts, beat and lard your fillets, then put them in a marinade made with vinegar and a little water, sliced onions, salt, parsley, laurel, and a clove of gar- lic. When they have marinated forfour- and-twenty hours, take them out and squeeze them in a cloth, then put a piece of butter into a tossing pan, and when it is melted, fry your fillets in it; when they are sufficiently done and well browned, put them on a cloth to drain : serve them on a dish over pieces of fried bread, and pour over the whole a sauce poivrade, love-apple sauce, or sauce piguante. The sauce must be boiling hot. Beef (Fillet of), with Endive.—Pre- pare the fillet the same as for roasting and jarding (receipt the second), and dish it with a ragoff t of endive under it. Beef (Fillet of) d V bitendante.— Make force-meat with fowls’ livers, grat- ed bacon,alittle butter, parsley,shallots, mushrooms, three yolks of eggs, and fine spices ; cut a fillet of beef into two, and flatten it withthecleaver,lard itthrough with middling lardons, then lay the forced meat upon it, and tie it in a cloth ; boil it in broth, a glass of white wine, and a faggot of sweet herbs ; when done, serve with it a ragoftt of sweetbreads, or truffles, &c. Beef (Fillet of) with Love Apple Sauce.—Prepare your fillet the same as for roasting and larding (receipt the second), and dish it over love-apple sauce. Beef (Fillet of) in Madeira.*—Lard a good fillet of beef, the same as for roast- ing, join the ends together, and place it in this manner in a stewpan, with some onions, carrots, and a Ooiiguet garni, some consomnii, and Madeira, cover it with a buttered paper; let it boil for a moment, and afterwards let it boil slowly. Put fire upon the top of your stewpan. When it is done strain the broth through a silk sieve, reduce it, and serve it as a sauce to your meat. Beef (Fillet of) d la Polonaise.*— Take out the nerves and skin from a fillet of beef, and mince the fillet as small as possible, mince some onions equally small, (mince a sufficient num- ber to have exactly the same quantity of minced onions as minced beef), then mince some lemon peel, (the same as for sauce bigarade); the whole thus pre- pared, melt some butter in a stewpan; when melted, put into it first a layer of onions, then a layer of beef, and so on till your beef is used. Between each layer put butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cinnamon, lemon, and grated bread. Then put your stewpan into an oven, and let your preparation bake for three hours. After tins, work the whole wellI ) BEE ( BEE together wliilst in tlie stewpan; tlien serve it on a disli in form of a rock, and mash the whole with a reduced Spanish sauce. Beef {Fillet of), roasted.—This fillet lies only in the inside of the sirloin next to the chine, and is the tenderest part of the ox; spit this on a small spit, but do not run it through the best part of the meat: roast it gently, and baste it with butter; catch gravy in a dish while the beef is roasting ; in the mean time make a sauce for it with sweet herbs and pars- ley shred fine, the yolks of four eggs, an onion, and some orange, peel chopped small; put these into sweet butter, gravy, a spoonful or two of strong broth and vinegar, stew themall together. Put yourbeef into this sauce, and serve it hot. Beef {Fillet of) roasted and larded.* —Trim your fillet; lard it fine, and let it soak for twelve hours in a marinade made of good oil, salt, pepper, nutmeg, sweet herbs, a bay leaf, and an onion cut in elices. After it has snaked, take it out, and put it on the spit before a quick fire. It must not be too much done, but should be taken off the spit with the gravy in it; serve it with a sauce made of its own gravy, a little vinegar, shalote, salt, and pepper, put into a sauce-boat. Beef {Fillet of), roasted and larded.— Take off' the superfluous fat, and tie the fillet ready for cooking; lard it at each extremity, leaving the middle without lard ; let it soak some days in oil, sea- soned with onions, parsley, lemon-juice, and pepper. Truss it in the form of an S, or a round, and roast it till it attains a good colour. Dish it with any sauce you may think best. Beef, forced Meat, in form of a Pud- ding.—Mince a piece of tender beef, with as much suet, a bit of ham, and small bits of bacon, two or three eggs, parsley, sha- lots, thyme, laurel, fine spices, and a little salt; add a glass of brandy; mix all together, and roll it into the form of a large pudding, placing round it thin slices of bacon ; over the bacon put white and upon the paper a paste made of flour and water; bake it about two oven, and when done take oft the paste and_ bacon. If you serve it hot, add a relishing sauce ; if cold, leave the paste till you are ready to serve, and send it up in a second course. Beef Fricandeau.—Take a nice hit of lean beef, lard it with bacon, seasoneil with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and all- spice. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsjey, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove ofgarlick, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is bc- come tender, cover it close; skim the •sauce well, and strain it. Sec it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. Beef Fried. — Cut your beef into steaks, beat it with the back of a sbredcling knife; take out all the fat, and then put them into a frying-pan, with a sufficient quantity of butter to moisten the pan ; set it over a moderate fire, turn your beef often, and as the gravy runs from it, keep pouring it out, then fry the fat by itself, and lay it on the lean, then put a little anchovy, onion, nutmeg, pepper and claret, in the gravy, and stew it a little. Beef Gobbets.*—Take about six pounds of any piece of beef, except the leg or shin, cut it into pieces about the size of a hen’s egg, put them into a stew-pan, and just cover them with water, put them over the fire, and when the scum rises, skim it clear off, then put in some cloves, mace, allspice, and whole pepper, tied in a muslin, six heads of celery, cut an inch jong and well washed, a carrot or two cut in slices, two turnips cut in dice, a bun- dle of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, and a crust of bread ; stew it till the meat is tender, and then take out the spice, herbs, and bread ; have some crusts of French roll crisped before the fire, put them in a dish, and put the meat, &c. over them. You put in two ounces of Scotch barley or rice when you put in the herbs. Beef Gobbets, stewed in the French fashion.—Tdke. any piece of beef, ex- cepting the leg, cut it in bits as big as pullets eggs, both of fat and lean ; slew it in a stewpan with water, skim it clean, and when it has boiled an hour, put in salt, whole pepper, cloves, mace, car- rots, turnips, parsni ps, and wh ole.onions; cover it close, and let it stew till it is tender, putting in (half an hour before it is finished,) parsley, thyme, sweet mar- joram, spinach, sorrel, and winter sa- vory; add some claret, then dish it on sippets, and serve it hot. Garnish with barberries, grapes, or gooseberries. Beef Gravy.—Cut a piece of the chuck or neck into small pieces, strew some flour over it, mix it well with the meat, and put it into the saucepan, with as much water as will cover it, .an onion, a little allspice, a little pepper, and some salt. Cover it close, and when it boils, skim it, then throw in a hard crust of bread, or some raspings, and stew it till the gravy_ia_ rich and good ; strain it off, and pour it into the sauce-boat. Beef Gristles, of different fashions.— Cut gristles of beef to what size you please ; scald them in boiling water fora FBEE BEE ) ( JO moment, then braze tliem with a little broth, a glass of white wine, a latrgot of parsley, chibbol, bay-leaves, thyme, basil, two cloves, one of garlick, whole pepper, and salt, sliced onions, and roots; when done, take the bottom of the braze, which you strain in a sieve, and skim the fat very clean otl'; then add to it a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little scalded chervil, finely chopped, and a lemon squeeze, or a little vinegar; serve this sauce upon the gristles. When thus brazed, you may serve upon them what ragout you please; you may also serve with them cabbage and sausages, first brazed about an hour with the gristles. They may be served as fricandeaux, ■with any sort of stewed greens; or you may make them in the manner of pick- led pork, if you will pot some of them. You may preserve them a long while by simmering them some time in fresh hog’s lard, then placing them close in an earthen pan, and pouting the lard upon them till the meat is covered ; when it is cold, cover the pot, and keep it in a ODol place. Beef Hams.—Take a fat leg of beef, rub it well with saltpetre and salt pru- nella, beat fine; then take an ounce of bay salt well dried, an ounce of saltpetre, beat fine, a pound of coarse sugar, and a pound of common salt; rub this pickle well in every day for a month, then roll it in bran or saw-dust, and hang it in wood smoke, or burn horse-litter under it for ten days or a fortnight; hang it in a dry place near the chimney, for a week, it will then keep very well, covered over with bi-an. Any other piece of beef may be done in the same pickle. Beef (Hashed).*—Take three or four onions, chop them very fine, and put them into a steiv pan, with apiece of but- ter and a little flour ; stir it over the fire till nearly done and well browned ; then moisten them with a little stock and half a glass of wine, adding some suit and coar.-e pepper; let them stew till they are thoroughly done, and very little sauce remains ; then put in the cold beef, minced small, and let the whole simmer till it has taken the fl.avour of the onion. When you serve, add a spoonful of mus- tard and a little vinegar. Beef Hashed.—Cut some of the under- done pai t of the beef, in slices, with some (jf the fat, put it into a small stewpan. with some onion or shalot, (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, .and salt: boil It till the onion is quite soil, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the hash. Do not let it boil; have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and put the hash into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion or raw shalot. You may add a spoonful of walnut liquor or catsup. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces, that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a se- cond time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Beet Heart.—Wash it carefully; stulT it the same as you would a hai e; roast or bake it, and serve with a rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and port wine. Beef Heart, a la Poivrade.—Cut a beef heart into slices, and let it seak some days, as you would a larded fillet of beef; when you wuh to dress it broil it, and dish up on a poivrade sauce. Beef (Hung.)—Put a rib of beef into a strong brine of bay salt, salt-petre, and spring water, for nine days, then hang it up in a chimney where wood or saw-dust is burnt. When a little dry, wash the outside with blood two or three times to make it look black, and when dry enough, boil it for use. Beef (Hang.)—The_ proper piece is that called the navel-piece; it mu.st be hung up in a cellar until it is a little damp, but not long enough to change; take it down, and wash it very well in brown sug.nr and water, dry it with a cloth, cut it in two or three pieces ; take half a pound of brown sugar, two pounds of bay salt dried and ;iounded small, six ounces of salt-peti'e dried and beat fine, rub it well into the beef, then strew com- mon salt all over it, as much as will make it salt enough; let it lie together ten days, changing the pieces from the bot- tom to the top ; hang it where it may have the warmth of the fire, hut not too near; when it is dressed, boil it in hay and pump water, until tender; it will .keep two or three months ; when mouldy, it is dipped in water. Beef (To Keep.)—The butcher should t.ake out the kernels in the neck pieces, where the shoulder clod is taken oil', two from each roui'.d of beef; one in the mid- dle, which is called the pope’s eye, the other from the flap ; there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the f.at. If these are not taken out, espi'clally in the summer, salt will he of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is ,anc- tlier kernel between the rump and the edge hone. As the butchers seldom at- tend to this matter, the cook should take out the. kernels ; and then rub the salt well into such beef .as is for boiling, and sliglitly sprinkle tliat which is for roast- ing.BEK ( 51 ) BEE Beep Ki.lnies, a In Bourgeoise.*— Take some kuliieya, cut tliern into thin slices, and broil them with a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, parsley, and Htreen onions, and a clove oi garlic, the whole should be shred line; when they are sullicientlv done, take them oil the fire (they should not hioil too long, or they will become tougli); add, when you serve them, a few drops of vinegar and a little cullia. Beef kidneys inny likewise be served d la bruise, with shalot sauce, or ss.ncepiq'tante. Beef Kidiie’i and Mustard Sauce.— Fry sliced onions in butter to half; cut the kidney into small pieces, and put it to the onions in a atewpan, with pepper and salt, and stew it on a slow lire (the kidney will furnish liquor enough); add the mustard when ready. Beef kidneys make very good gravy. Ubef Kidueg Pie.—Cut some kidneys into thin slices, and place them in the bottom of your pie-dish, then sweet herbs chopped, such as parsley, thyme, shalots, mushrooms, pepper, and salt; continue this till the dish is full, then cover the whole with slices of bacon, then finish your pie ; bake it in the oven ; when done, take out the bacon, and skim off the fat; make a sauce with a glass of white wine, a tolerable quantity ofcullis, and reduce it to the consist- ence of a good sauce, then squeeze a Seville orange in it. Serve your pie hot. Beef Kidneys, aic saut£.*—C\ii the kidneys into pieces, and toss them in a pan with a piece of butter, some chopped parsley, shalots, mushroom, salt, pep- p w, and a little grated nutmeg; then thicken witha pinch of Hour, and moisten ivith half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of Spanish sauce; take it off the fire before it boils, add a piece of butter and the juice of a lemon. Serve the kidney hot, and garnish with fried bread. Beef Kidney shredded.—Take a kid- ney, braze it till very tender; shred it, then serve it upon stewed cucumbers, or ' any other greens you like better. It should he rather highiv relished. BbevKidneyswith IVim S’r«/ce.*—Cut the kidneys into thin slices, sprinkle ttiem with flonr.'and fry them in butter, with salt, pepper, parsley, and green onions,shred line. When fried, moisten them with white wine, then add a little stock, and serve. Bf.f.v {Minced)—Shred the underdone part fine; with some of the fat; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft,'then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mi.'c a large spoon- ful of vinegar witli it; if shallot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. Beef, Minced.* — Take some cold roasted fillet of beef, cut out all the fat and suet, then chop the meat as fine as possible, and put it into a reduced Spa- nish sauce made boiling hot; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter to it. Serve your mince with soft boiled eggs round it, or with pieces of toasted bread. Beef, Minced.*—yiiwa your beef very small; put it into a saucepan with a little gravy and a little of the fat of fowl or any other fat, moisten it with some stock and a little white wine; sea- son according to your taste, then let it simmer over a gentle fire till it is suffi- ciently done. Beef, Minced, d la Vinaigrette*— Mix up some salt, pepper, and a little mustard with a spoonful of vinegar; add some sweet herbs, shalots, &c., pickled cucumbers, cut very small; then mix the whole together, with two or three spoonsful of oil of olives ; put this pre- paration into a dish, and serve your minced beef over it. Beef en Miroton *—Brown, in butter, some slices of onions, moisten with a little stock ; then put in your slices of beef, let it boil a short time, then serve \tcn Miroton; add some mustard, ora little vinegar. Beef d la Mode.*—Take a rump or piece of beef, hone it, beat it well and lard it with fat bacon, then put it into a stew-pan with some rind of bacon, a calf’s foot, an onion, carrot, a biincli of sweet herbs, a bay leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, salt, and pepper, pour over the w'hole a glass of water, let itstewover a slow fire for six hours at least. A clean cloth should be placed over the stew-pan before the lid is put on, which, must te carefully closed. When it is done, strain the gravy through a sieve, clear off the .'’at, and serve. Beef d la Mode.*—VVelllard and spice a piece of beef; put it into a stewpan, with some carrots-, onions, a calf’s foot, boned, and seasoned according to taste; moisten with stock or white wine (put a Cloth round the lid of the stewpan), and let it cook over a gentle fire. 11 may be served either hot or cold. The gravy should be strained through a sieve. Beef d la Mode.*—Take some of the round of beef, the veiny piece, or small round, (what is generally called the52 BEE BEE mouse butioclf), cut it five or six inches thick, cut some pieces of fat bacon into long bits; take an equal quantity of beaten mace, pepper, and nutmeg, with double tlie quantity of salt, if wanted ; mix them together; dip the bacon into some vinegar, (garlic vinegar, if agree- able), then into the spice ; lard the beef with a larding pin, very thick and even, put the meat into a pot just big enough to hold it, with a gill ofvinegar, twolarge onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, half a pint of red wine, some lemon peel; cover it down very close, and put a wet cloth round the edge of the pot, to prevent the stearn evaporating ; when it is half done turn it, and cover it up again ; do it over a stove, or a very slow fire: it will take five hours and a half before it is done. Truffles and morels may be added. Beef Oliues.*—Take some thin ramp .steake, cut them what size you please, make force meat as for veal, put some of it into each piece of steak, roll them up and skewer them, fry them brown until they are half done, then stew them in gravy half an hour, with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Beep Pasty.—Take a small rump or sirloin of beef, bone it, and beat it well with a rolling pin ; to five pounds of your beef take two ounces of sugar, rub it well into the meat, and let it lie for twenty-four hours: then either wipe it clean or wash it off with a little claret, and season it high with salt, pepper, ana nutmeg, put it into your pasty, and lay over i t a pound of butter ; close it up and bake it. Put the bones in a pan with 'just as much water as will cover them, and bake them to make gravy, and when the pasty is drawn, if it wants liquor, put in some of this gravy. Beef d la Pat/sa«we.*—Take a slice of beef, cut it into little pieces, with some streaked bacon, parsley, scallion chopped small, fine spices, and a laurel leaf; take a tureen, and first put in a layerof beef, then a layer of bacon, and continue first with a layernfbeef then of bacon, with a little seasoning, then put in a spoonful of brandy, and two spoon- fuls of water, close the lid of the tureen, and let it stew over some hot ashes; when done, you may either clear off the fat or not, according as you think proper, then serve it in the tureen. Beef {Pickled).—'IWx apiece of beef, stick it all over with garlick .and cloves, season it well with salt, mace, and all- spice, cover the meat with vinegar and turn It every day for a fortniglit; as the vinegar wastes, add more; then put it in a stew-pot with some vinegar and white wine, cover it down very close, stew it six hours, if a large piece; add vinegar and white wine to it as it stews, if neces- sary ; some onions should be stewed to eat with it. Beef to Pickle the Jews’ fVay.—Take any piece of beef without bones, or take the bones out, it you intend to keep it above a month ; take mace, elove.s, nut- meg, and pepper, juniper berries beat fine, and rub the beef well, mix salt and jamaica pepper and bay leaves ; let it be well seasoned, let it lie in the seasoning a week or ten days, throw in a good deal of garlic and shalots; boil some of the best white wine vinegar, lay your meat in a pan or good vessel for the purpose, with the pickle; and when the vinegar is quite cold, pour it over; cover it close. If it is for a voyage, cover it with oil, and let the cooper hoop up the barrel very well. This is a most excellent way in a hot country, where meat will not keep, then it must be put into the vinegar directly with the seasoning, then you may either roast or stew it, but it is best when stewed; and add a good deal of onion and parsley chopped fine, some white gravy, a little catsup, truffles and morels, a little good gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, or a little ml, in which the meat and onions ought to stew a quarter of an hour before the other in- gredients are put in; then put all in, stir the whole well, and let it stew till you think it is sufficiently done. This IS a good pickle in a hot country, to keen beef or veal that is dressed to eat cola. Beef Pie d la Chasse.*—Trim a fine leg of beef. Take a pound of lean raw ham, and cut it into lardons six inches in length, and half an inch in diameter; then cut into lardons of the same size two pounds of fat bacon, rub th e lardons of bacon over with one ounce of salt (seasoned with spices) and two spoonfuls of very fine chopped sweet herbs, \^'eigll your beef, and according to its weight to each pound of meat take four drachms of spiced salt, and nut this saltap.art; then lard your beef all over with the lardons of ham and bacon, (putting a lardon of ham between two lardons of bacon) and sticking these lardons at three quarters of an inch dist.ance from each other. AVhen your beef is completely larded, tie it in as neat a round as possible. Line a stew-p.an with lards of bacon, adding a pound of ham cut into thin slices, then put in your beef, with two carrots, four onions, (two of which should be stuck with clovea)parsley,sc.aliion, bay. thvme, basil, .adding three spoonfuls of the drip- ping of fowls', or a glass of entwomme. a bottle of madeira. half a glass of brandy.BEE { o3 ) BEE anJ the spiced salt which you had pi-e- viously put apart. Cover tlie wliole with buttereii paper. After it has boiled for halt* an hour, place it by the side of the st )ve and let it simmer for five hours ; then put it into a cool place, and let it cool in' its own liquor. When it is cold place your beef upon a dish, pass your liquor through a napkin, then take the ham and the bacon (which have been boiled with the beef), and mince them with a pound of fillet of veal, adding to this mince twelve drachms of spiced salt, four spoonsful of finely chopped herbs, the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, and one spoonful of velouie. Put this farce into a pan, and add an ox pa- late d I'icarlaie cut into little dice. This preparation finished, take some paste and form it into a round, to answer the purpose of a dish; put half of t\\e farce into the bottom of your paste spredding itall about; then trim your beef so that it will easily go into the paste without spoiling the form of the paste; put the trimmings of the beef upon the farce which you have put at the bottom of the paste, then place upon it the beef, strew over itan ounce of spiced salt, and mash the beef with the rest of the/arce; and cover the whole with a pound of butter, and .some lards of bacon ; then cover with paste, ornament your pie, and put it in an oven, and let it bake for four bouns. After it is baked pour into your pie the liquor in which the beef was boiled; this liquor ought not to exceed three glasses fall; if it does exceed this quantity it must be reduced ; then close the pie very carefully with more paste. These pies are extremely delicious, and very useful in travelling ; but they never grace the Parisian tables ; they are usually made to send as presents to the different provinces, to celebrate some grand hunting parties. Bekf Pies raised with Truffles.— Bone a small fat rump of beef, daub it vvith slips of fat bacon, put it into a raised crust with light force meat and plenty of whole_ peeled green trufUes round it; «)ver it with the paste, garnish and bake it two hours ; then add a sauce, made with a pint of veal broth, a gill of lemon pickle, a bay leaf, a few chopped shalltos and cayenne pepper ; make it of a proper thickness, and strain. Two hours after- wards, cut the top off the pic, skim it free from fat, glaze the rump, and serve it to table. Beef Partugal.—T&Vc moat from a nimp of beef, cut it across. Hour it, and fry the thin part brown in butter; stuff the thick end with suet, boiled chosnuts, an anchovy, an onion, and a little pep- per ; stew it with good strong broth, and when tender, cut the fried in two, and lay it on each side of the stewed in the dish ; strain the gravy, put to it pickled gherkins chopped, aiid some broiled chesnuts. Thicken with burnt butter, and boil it up two or three times; sea- son with salt, pour it over the beef, gar- nish with lemon, and serve it. Beev(.Potted).*—Take some lean beef, rub it with salt and saltpetre, let it lay three or four days, then cut it in pieces, and boil it; then beat it to a powder, .mi.^ ing vvith it some fat, add spice, put it in pots, and pour butter over it. Beef (Potted).—Take two pounds of the fillet out of the inside of a rump of beef, and two pounds of best fat bacon. Cut them small, put them in a rnarble mortar, add to them a small quantity of parsley, thyme, savory, four slialots chopped fine, some pepper,salt, twospoon- fuls of essence of ham, a spoonful of mush- room powder, sifted mace, cloves and all- spice, a little of each, two eggs beaten, and a gill of rhenisli wine. Pound all well together till quite fine ; then fill small pots with the mixture, cover with paper, bake it very gently for forty mi- nutes, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Beef Potted.—Take three pounds of lean beef, salt it two orthi ee days vvith half a pound of common salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre ; divide it info pieces of a pound each, and put it into an earthen pan just sufficient to contain it; pour in half a pint of water; cover it close with paste, and set it in a very slow oven for four hours: when taken from the oven pour the gravy from it into a basin', shred the meat fine, moisten it with the gravy poured from the meat, and pound it thoroughly in a marbie mortar vvith fresh butter, till it becomes a fine paste, season it with black pepper and allspice, or cloves pounded, or grated nutmeg ; put it in pots, press it down as close as possible, put a vveight on it, and let it stand all night; next day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an inch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper. Beef, Potted like Venison.—Take a whole thin Hank of beef, pull off the in- ward skin, and slash it across and across, particularly in the thickest parts ; lay it for six hours in pump water, take as much hard salt, or saltpetre, as the quantity of an e«g, mixed with about two pounds of white salt, and rub it well into the meat; then sprinkle upon it nearly H pint of wine vinegar, and thenlet it lay for three or four days, turning and rubbing it once a day ; then rinse ic outbee ( 54 ) REE of the brine witli a pint of claret, and season it with cloves, mace, and nut- meg, white and Jamaica pepper of each a quarter of an ounce, beaten all toge- ther with savory, thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon, shred together, and then well rubbed into the cuts and slashes and the inside; then bind it up with tape, and lay it in a long pot; put in the claret, and lay the skins at the top to save it; then bake it. Beef d la Potilette.* — Mince some beef, and put it into a stew-pan with a piece of butter; when the butter is melted, add a good pinch of flour; stir the whole well together, and moisten it with a little water; season with salt, pepper, and parsley; when ready to serve, thicken it with the yolks of eggs and a little vinegar. Beef (Pressed).—Salt a piece of brisket (thin part of the flank) or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre, five days, then boil itgently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight, or in a cheese press, till perfectly cold, it eats excel- lently cold, and for sandwiches. Beef (a pretty side dish of).—Roast a tender piece of beef, lay fat bacon all over it, and roll it in paper; baste it, and when it is roasted cut about two pounds in thin slices ; lay them in a stew- pan, and take six large cucnmbers, peel them, chop them small, lay over them a little pepper and salt, and stew them in butter for about ten minutes, then drain out the butter, and shake some flour oyer them; toss them up, pour in half a pint of gravy, let them stew till they are thick, and then serve. Beef Ragodt.—Take a rump of beef, cut the meat from the bone, flour and fry it, pouroverita little boiling water, about a pint of small beer ; add a carrot or two, an onion stuck with cloves, some whole pepper, salt, a piece of lemon peel, a bunch of sweet herbs : let itstewan hour, then add some gooa gravy; when the meat is tender take it out, strain the sauce, thicken it with a little flour; add a little celery ready boiled, a little catsup, put in the meat, just simmer it up. Or the celery may be omitted, and the ragodt enriched by adding mushrooms fresh or pickled, artichoke-bottoms boiled and quartered, and hard yolks of eggs. A piece of flank, or any piece that can be cut free from bone, will do instead of the rump. Beef, Red for Slices.—Take a piece of thin flank of beef, and cut ofl'the skin ; then rub it well with a mixture made with two pounds of common salt, two ounces of bay salt, two ounces of salt- petre, and a pound of moist sugar, pounded in a marble mortar. Put it into an earthen pan, and turn and rub it daily for a week; then take it out of the brine, wipe it, and strew all over it some pounded mace, cloves, pepper, a little allspice, and a good quantity of chopped parsley, and a few shalots. Then roll it up. bind it round with tape, braise it till it is tender, press it in the same way as you press a collared pig, and when it is cold cut it in slices and garnish with pickled barberries. Beef, {Rib of) d la bonne Feinmc.*— Trim a rib of beef, lard it with pieces of spiced bacon; melt a piece of butter about the size of two eggs, in a stew pan, then put in your beel, season with salt and pepper; and place your stew pan over a quick fire, turn your beef two or three times; when it is very hot, place your Btewpan over a more gentle fire, put fire on the top of tbe stew-pan, then let it simmer for an hour and a half: serve it with its own liquor as a sauce. Bbev, (Rib of) Bru'sed.—Trim a rib of beef, take out the bone, and lard it with pieces of bacou seasoned with nul- meg,cinnainon, allspice, cloves, salt and pepper ; line the bottom of a stew-pan with slices of bacon, slices of veal and beef. Have ready fourteen carrots, five large onions, three of which must be stuck with cloves, two bay leaves, a liltie thyme, a bunch of parsley, a bunch of scallions. Tie your beef into a neat form, and put it into the stew-pan ; cover it with bacon, then put in the vegetables with two large spoonfuls of stock; let the whole boil; after which let it simmer gently for three hours over a moderate fire; then let it drain, and untie your beef; pass a little of the liquor through a silk sieve, clearit from the fat, reduce it, and serve it over the beef. The beef must be glazed. Beef, (Ribs) with Spinach or Endive.* —Take out the bones from some fine ribs of beef, then roast your meat, and serve with spinach or endive all over the beef. Beef, (Rib of) with Onions, Glazed.* —Trim and bruise a rib ot beef ; when done, untie it. let it drain, and put it on a dish, surrounded with onions glazed : moisten a Spanish sauce with a little of the liquor the beef was dressed in. clear it well fenm fat, pass it through a sieve, then serve it with the, beef. Beef (Ribof), with Malaga /line.*— Prepare your beef the same as for brais- ing, (only rather more spicing the pieces of bacon with which you lard your beef;) adding half a bottle of Malaga wine and half a bottle of stock ; when yiur beef is done, strain the liquor through a( i 5 ) BEE BEE sieve, (having been careful to clear it from fat) and reduce it to a single glass- ful, which youstiould pour over the beef. Be careful that the reduced sauce is not too sharp, and that you do not season your beef with too much salt. Beep (Rib of) a la Rocambole.*—Pre- pare the beef the same as Rib of Beef braised, only add a little garlic; and lialf a bott.e of white wine ; when the beef is done, drain it, and serve with rocamboles, (see Rocamboles). The beef must be glazed. Beef, (/Jo«nc?o^).—Lard your round with gammon and.other bacon, well sea- soneu with salt, pepper, cloves, cinna- mon, coriander seed, and grated nutmeg, onions, parsley, shalots, all well mixed tJgether; let as much of these as you can be stuffed into the bacon, and lard the buttock both on the top and under- neath; then season it again with all your ingredients, and put it into a stew-pan to be marinated a little while with onions, garlic shalots, parsley, sweet basil, thyme, slices of lemons, verjuice, and a little broth; let it lie in these two hours, then put it in a napltin with thin slices of bacon, wrapping it up close so that no fat may enter. Put a plate in the bottom of the pot to keep the napkin and meat from being burnt to the bot- tom, and boil it in the evening against the next day. To season it you may put in about two pounds of leaf fat of a hog’s belly, or beef suet, putting in some white wine, verjuice, salt, long pepper, gin- ger, cinnamon, nutmeg, slices of lemon, onion, par.sley, bay leaves, sweet basil, and whole coriander, anise and fennel; when all these are put into the pot, let it be covered very close, and let the beef be stewed very gently; when it is .sufficiently done, let it cool in its own fat; tlien make a godiveau, put it into the dish in which the piece of beef is to be dressed, then cover it with the same godiveau, then put it into an oven and let it bake for an hour. Before you serve it to table, prepare a well seasoned beefcullis, and make a round hole in the top of the godiveau, and pour in your cullis so that it may penetrate into every part, and then above this squeeze the juice of a lemon. This beef may be •served up cold, in thin slices, instead of beef a, la Royale. Beef d la Royale.—Bone a rump, sir- loin or brisket, and cut some holes in it at a little distance from each other: fill the holes, one with choptoysters,another with fat bacon, and the other with chopt parsley ; dip each of these, before the heel is stuffed, into a seasoning made with salt, pepper, beaten mace, nutmeg, grated lemon peel, sweet marjoram, and thyme; put a piece of butter into a frying pan, and when it has done hissing, put in the beef, make it of a fine brown, then put into it some broth made of the bones, with a bay leaf, a pint of red wine, two ancho- vies, and aquarterofapintofsmall beer; cover it close and let it stew till it is ten- der ; then take out the beef, skim off the fat, strain the gravy ; add two ox-palates stewed tender and cut into pieces, some pickled gherkins,truffle6,morels,and a lit- tle mushroom powder; let all these boil to- gether ; thicken the sauce with a bit of but- ter rolled in flour, put in the beef to warm, pour the sauce over it, and serve it up. Beef {Rump of.)—The rump is es- teemed, in France, the best piece in the whole ox; it makes excellent sjiups, and graces the table as a middle dish. It is excellent boiled and served up plain ; or, when cleansed ofitsfat, it may be served with ja sauce made of cullis, parsley, green onions, anchovies, capers, and a little garlic, the whole shred fine and well seasoned. It may also be served boiled and garnished mth petits-pdtes. Beef {Rump of)Baked.*-Ta.k^'A rump of beef, what size you please, bone and lard it, season it with salt and fine spices put it into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, together with half a pint of white wine, some green onions, mushrooms, and shallots; some lean bacon is an im- provement.- Close the edges of the pan with a strong paste; let it stew in an oven for five or six hours according to the size of your meat, then serve it with its own sauce strained. You may dress a sirloin in the same way. Beef, (/i(mp of,) Boiled French Fa- shion.—Parboil your rump of beef for half an hour, take it up, and put it into a deep dish; cut gashes in the side of your meat, that the gravy may come out, put salt and pepper into every gash, then fill up the dish with claret, and put in two or three blades of mace, set it over a chafing dish of coals, and cover it close and jet it stew for an hour and a half, turning the meat several times whilst it IS stewing, then take oli’the lat, put in a handful of capers, five or six sliced onions, half-a-dozen verjuice. Boil all together till the meat is tender, and serve it up to table with brown bread and sippets fried in butter. Beef {Rump of) d la Braise, teith Dutch Onions.*—Take a fine rump of beef, bone it,and tieit with apackthread, and put it in a braise with a pint of whiue wine, some good stock, a slice of veal, u rasher of bacon, a large bunch of herbs, pepper and salt; when it is half done, add about thirty Dutch or large redBEE BEE onions. When the beef is done, take it out and clear off the fat; put it in a disli with the onions round ; pour over it a good brown sauce. A rump of beef dress- edin tliis way may be varied with differ- ent sauces or ragouts, according to your taste. Beef (Rump of) d la Cardinule.*— Choose a rump of beef of ten or twelve pounds, and having taken out the bone, lard it with a pound of b.'icon, cut it in bits, and season it with salt and spices. The upper part of the beef, which is covered with fat, should not l)e larded. Next, take four ounces of powdered salt- oetre and rub into the meat, that it may lookied ; put it in a pan with one ounce of bruised juniper berries, three bay leaves, a little thyme and basil, and one pound of coarse salt; let it remain eight days, the pan being well covered. \Vhen the meat has taken the salt, wash it in warm water, and put some slices of bacon upon the upper part, or that which is covered with fat, tying a linen cloth over the whole with packthread: then let it siew gently for five hours with a pint and a half of red wine, a quart of water, five or six onions, two cloves of garlic, four or five carrots, two parsnips, a bay leaf, thyme, basil, four or five cloves, parsley, green onions, and the quarter of a nut- meg. When it is done, leave it to cool in its own liquor, and when quite cold, serve. The short ribs of beef may be done in tbesarae manner. Beef (Rump of) in its own Gravy.— Boil a bowed ruiiip of beef on a very slow fire, in short liquid, about eight or nine hours, with a faggot of parsley, chibbol, two laurel leaves, a clove of garlick, two shalots, thyme, four cloves, half a nut- meg, pepper and salt; when it is done, skim off the fat very well, and serve it .with the broth after having strained it. Beef Salted.—Beef should be rvell sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with the salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong: it should be turned every day ; and, if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and, when cold, pour it over the meat that has been sprinkled and drained. Beei' Salted (for immediate use.)—The piece should not weigh more than five or •six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before'you put it into the pot ; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put tiiC meat in, and fold it up close • put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you wc)uld any other salt beef of the same* size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. Beef Salted (in the Dutch way.)— Take a lean piece of beef, and rub it well with brown sugar (some pour treacle over it); let it He at least two days, turning it very often ; then wipe it, and salt it with cummon salt and saltpetre; beat the salt- petre fine, rub itwell in, and turnitevery day for fourteen or fifteen days; then roll it very tight in a coarse clotii, and press it down rvith a large weight; hang it to dry in a chimney, liut turn it the bocioin upwards every day; then boil it in pump water: it will cut into shivers like Dutcfi beef. Beef Salted Red, which is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or t i hang to dry.—Chuo-e a piece of beef with as little bone as you can, (the flank is most proper) sprinkle it and let it drain a day, tlieiirub it with common salt,salt- petre, and bay .salt, but only a small pro- portion of the saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder; rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen, drain it from the pickle, and let it be smoked at the oven mouth when heated with w'ood, or send it to the baker’s; a few days will smoke it. A little o! tlie coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit. boil it till extremely tender, and, while hot, put it under a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving ou bread and butter. Beef Sausages.’—Take two beefsteaks about the size of two hands, and the thickness of a finger; bent them well to make them flat, and p.are the edges of them; then mince the parings with beef suet, parsley, green onions, mushrooms, two shallots, and some basil leaves, tlie whole slired fine, and mixed into a force- meat with tlie yolksof lour eggs ; spread this forcemeat on the slices of beef, and roll them up ill the form of sausages: tie them tip with packthread,and stew them with a little slock, a glass of wine, some salt, pepper, an onion stuck with two or tiiree cloves, a carrot, and a parsnip; when they are done, strain the liquor; and, having skimmed ort tlie fat, reduce it ever the fire to tlie omsistonce of a sauce. Take care that the s.»iice is not too highly flavoured, and serve it over your sausages; or they may be served( 57 ) BEE BEE with any ragout of vegetables you please. 'I'o serve the sausages cold, to make a dish for the second course, reduce the sauce by letting it boil with the sausages till almost all thefatis consumed; then let them stand to cool with what remains of the sauce adhering to them, and serve upon a napkin. Beep (Sirloin of) mEpigram.—li&vmg roasted a sirloin of beef, carefully take up the skin of the meat, which you must cut out and mince in tine shreds ; but take care that you do not cut the sides. Have a strong brown sauce ready with a few mushrooms, peppei-j and salt, and a little lemon juice; put m the mince, lay it inside the beef, and cover the skin over. Serve it up hot with a strong gravy. Beep (small Sirloin of) RagoUt.— Braise a bit of sirloin, larded with large lardons in broth, and a pint of white wine; add a faggot of sweet herbs, onions, and roots. When done, take it out, and serve it with a ragout of sweetbreads, of mushrooms, or any other kind of ragout. Beef S/cirts.—Beef skirts eat well broiled; they also make a most excellent pie. Beef Smoked a la Hamlourg.*—Take a rump of beef, put it into a pan with juniper berries, thyme, basil, clove of garlic, bay leaf, cloves, and onions cut in slices. Cover your pan very carefully, so as to exclude all air: turn your meat every two or three days: at the end of a fortnight take it out, and, after having washed it in several waters, drain it for four-and-twenty hours ; then wrap it in a clean cloth, and put it in a saucepan and let it stew for seven or eight hours ; take it out and let it drain, and serve it cold the same as a ham. Beef Soup.* — Take a shin or leg of beef, cut it in pieces, with six onions, two carrots, celery, leeks, two turnips, a bundle of sweet herbs, black- pepper, and allspice to your taste; put alj this, with the beef, into a stewpan, without water, over a slow fire for an hour, then pour over it two quarts of boiling water ; let it stew till the meat is tender, and if you have not sufficient soup add more water ; when the beef is tender enough, takeout all the best parts and let the rest stew with the herbs un- til quite a rag, then strain all off’, and add some herbs as the former, stewed in a pan by \hemselves with a little water; the' carrots, &c. must be cut about an inch long; the water they are stewed in may be put into the soup; then let your beef and all be stewed together; hut it must not boil quite ; and be nicely skim- med. Beef Soused,—Take either buttock, chuck, or brisket of beef, season with salt and pepper for four days, then roll them up as even as you can, tie a cloth fast about it, and boil it in water and salt till it be tender, then souse it in water and vinegar, and a little white wine and salt; put it into a hook frame to form it round and upright; then dry it in some smoky place, or in the air. When you wish to use it, cut it out in slices, and serve it with sugar and mus- tard. Beef, Spring Garden.—Cut a piece of lean beef into thin slices like Scotch collops, lard it thick with bacon, and put it into a pan with salt, pepper, mace, two or three bay-leaves, aiut a bunch of sweet herbs; bake it; then clear out all the gravy, and fill it up with clarified butter. Beef Steaks d la Bourgeoise.—Lard the steaks here and there with lai ge lar- dons; put them into the pan with chopped parsley, shalots, thyme, laurel, salt, whole pepper, and a glass of white wine ; let them soak two hours, then simmer them till done. You may serve them either hot or cold. Beef Steak broiled.*—Cut your steaks rather thick, beat them well, and ma- rinate them in oil or vinegar with a little fine salt; then broil them on a gridiron over a clear, quick fire ; but before you broil your steaks make a preparation with some fresh butter, salt, parsley, chopped fine and mixed together with the juice of a lemon; put this prepara- tion into a dish made very hot, and serve your steaks upon it. You may garnish with fried slices of potatoe, slices of pickled cucumber, and cresses; some make use of anchovy sauce instead of the parsley. Beef Steaks broiled.—The best steaJis are cut from the middle of the rump; let them be cut half an inch thick, then beat with a rolling-pin; season them with pepper and salt; let the fire be very brisk and clear, the gridiron very clean; set the dish before the fire upon a chaffing dish to keep hot; turn the steaks often with a pair of small tongs made on pur- pose when they are done enough, lay them in the dish, and rub a bit of butter over them. Be sure not to season them till they are put upon the gridiron. Beef Steak broiled, d I’Anglaise,*— 1 repare your steaks the same ns for Steaks sauti au via de Madere, then rub them with pepper and salt; dip them in melted butter, and then rub them with bread crumbs; broil them, and serve with a maitre d'hbtel. Beef Steaks /Wei/.—Pepper and saltBEE BEE 58 some rump steaks, stew them witli some water, a glass of Madeira, a bunch of sweet lierbs, an anelinvy or two, an onion, a piece of lemon peel, and two tor three cloves; cover them tdose ; when tender, take them out. Hour them pretty well, fry them, pour off' the fat, strain the liquor that they were stewed in, put it to the steaks, with catsup or mushroom p )wder and liquor, oysters and their liquor, lemon-juice; simmer this up; garnish with [lickles. Beef Steak Pie. — Take some fine rump steaks, beat them with a rolling- pin, then season them with pepper and salt according to taste. Make a good crust, lay in youi' steaks, fill your dish, then pour in as much water as will half fill the dish. Puton the crust, and bake it well. Beef S'eak Pie.—Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, flour and season with pepper and salt; when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish, with pufjFpaste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. Beef Steak Pie raised.—Take rump steaks, cut the skin from the fat, beat the steaks with a chopper, cut them into middling-sized pieces, pass them with a bit of fresh butter, pepper, salt, lemon juice, and shalots chopped, and when half done, put them in a dish till cold. Blanch oysters, strain them, and preserve the liquor; raise a crust, put a layer of steaks at the bottom, some oysters upon it, and so, alternately; cover the pie, ornament, and bake it. When done, put into it a good culiis, with tlie oyster liquor and some catsup mixed with it, anti serve it. Steaks with oysters may be done the same way, put into a deep dish, and co- vered witli puff"paste. Beef Steak Pudding. — Beat your steaks with a rolling-pin, season them, and roll them with fat between; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks; cover the basin with a paste, atid pinch the edges to keep the gravy in ; cover witli a cloth tied close, and let the pud- ding boil slowly, but for a length ol time. Beef Steak Pudding.—Take flour, chopped suet, some milk, a little salt, and one egg, and mi.x them well toge- tlier. Koll out the paste, of half an inch thick, and sheet a basin or bowl v/ith it; then trim the skin from the meat, beat the steaks well with a chop- per, cut them into middling-sized pieces, reason with pepper utid salt, put them into the basin with blanclied oysters and slices of potatoes, alternately (or slices of onion); cover the top with paste, and tie a cloth over the basin. Hoil the pud- ding (if of a middling size^ two home, and when it is to be served up, put i.ito it a little cullisand catsup. Beef Steak Pudding, bakel.—Make a batter of milk, two eggs, and flour, or, wbicli is much better, potatoes boiled and ma.slied tlirough a cullender; lay a little of it at the bottom of the di.'h ; then put in the steaks, prepared as above, and very well seasoned; pour the remainder of tlie batter over them, and bake it. Beef Steaks rolled.—Take three or four large steaks, and flat them with a cleaver. Make a farce with the flesh of a capon, some of a fillet of veal, and some gammon of bacon,both fat and lean; add to this the fat of a loin of veal, sweet breads, young onions, parsley, mush- ro.ims, and truffles, the yolks 6f four eggs with a little cream; season all these very well with spice and herbs, and bash them, then strew them on your slices of beef, and roll it up very handsomely, that they may be firm and of a good size ; then let them stew a good while. When they are sufficiently done, take them up and drain away the lat, then slittbeui in two and lay them in a dish, the cut side uppermost; and serve them either with a ragout or cull is. Beef Steak Sauti au vin de Madire.* —Cut out the skin and nerves troinyour steaks, and cut them into escaloppes igales, beat them and trim them into the form of a round : melt some butter in a tossing pan, and lightly fry your stpjiks in it; when they are done of a nice ligiit colour, arrange them on a dish in lonn of a crown, drain the butter from the toss- ing-pan, and put the liquor by; tliem put a glass of Madeira into your tossing- pan, and reduce it with a little veal glaze and a little Spanish sauce, adding a little pimento butter ; when your sauce is of a nice dark colour, strain it through n sieve and serve it vvith your steaks. Beef Steaks Saaii with Olives.*— Prepare your steaks the same as for Steaks Saute au vin de Madvre; then Iry with apiece of butter or laid; when done, dress them on a di-h in form of a crown, and pour into the middle of the crown a ragoCtt of olives. Beef Steaks, a. la Servanie.—Cut the slices thin ; lav a down of sliced lard, then of steaks, line'herOs. and spices, and so on till von have done; add a gl.ass of biandy. Hnd stop the pot very weil with paste to keep the steam in ; let it simmer live or six hours, on a very slow lire. Tiicy may be served cither hot or cold.BEE ( -w ) BEE Bpef S/oc/t.—This is mnde from the legs, sliin, and scrags of beef, or any hones tliat are to spare ; chop them into pieces, wash tliem, jma put them m ^ larac pot on tlic fire, filled half with cold and half with hot water; it must be closely attended to when it begins to boil, in order to take oH’the scum; then set it on one side of the stove to boil gently and put in three or four carrots well scraped and washed, onions, parsley, pepper-corns, salt, and one clove of gar- lick ; put the cover on, and mind to skim it when wanted. VVhen the meat is done to pieces, run it through the sieve, the same as a consonnni. This serves for plain hashes, or to reduce the glaze for vegetable soups, &c., if required. Beef SfocA-.—Put chuck beef, cut in pieces, into a pot, set it on the fire with water enough to coverit. VVhen boiling, skim it clean ; add a bunch of parsley and thyme, cleaned carrots, leeks, onions, ‘turnips, celery, and a little salt; boil the meat till it is tender, skim off the. fat, and strain it through a fine hair sieve. Beef Suet and Marrow, how to use.— To use suet and marrow, all the skin and sinews should be picked out very carefully. It is used for most forced meats, (and the marrow is used for par- ticular occasions), and is extremely good to put in to braises, being very nourishing. If you wish to use it instead of Imtter, soak if in hike-warm water, turning and pressing it with your hands to render it soft, and to squeeze out the water. Beef Tansy.—Take seven eggs, leav- ing out two whites, ai d a pint of cream, some thyme, sweet marjoram, parsley, strawberry leaves, shred very small; add a plate of grated bread; mix all well together, and fry them the same as all other tansies are hied, but not too brown. Beef Tea.—Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only salt. Beef Tendons a VAllenwnde.*—Take two or three poundsof the breast of beef, and cut it into three or four pieces of equal size ; blanch them for a stiort time in boiling water ; take also half a large cabbage, and blanch it tor a quarter of an hour; then hoil your breast of beef with some stock, a bunch of parsley and green onions, a clove of garlic, two cloves, a hay lea/, and a little thyme and basil. When it has boiled an hour, put in the half cabbage, previously cut in three pieces, well squeezed and tied together, also hur large whole onions: when they are all nearly done, add four sausages, a little salt ami coarse pepper; then finish the stewing till there remair:s very little sauce; strain the meat and vegetables, and wipe off the loose fat with a cloth. Serve the meat in a dish, with the cabbage and onions round it, .and the sausages placed upon tlie meat; strain tiie remaining sauce through a sieve, and take ofl’ the fat, then pour it over the meat. Beef Tripe A la Provenyale.*—Take some very thick tripe, scrape and wash it in several waters ; then stew it with a pound of grated bacon, two carrots, two onions, (one of which should be stuck with cloves), bay leaves, ttiynr.e, garlic, whole pepper, parsley : moisten witii a bottle of white wine, and a spoonful of consomnU ; let your tripe stew f<ir eight houi'S oyer a slow fire ; then let it cool in tlie liquor, then lieat it again, and let it drain, after which, cut it into fillets. You must previously prepare twelve onions, cut in fillets, and fried in oil, with a little garlic and chopped parsley; then boil your tripe. Now it is cut inio fillets, with the fried onions, and half the oil in which they were fried, and a little of the liquor in which your tripe was fir.<t dressed. Serve the tripe as hot .ns possible, gainishing it all over with bread, first dipped in oil, salt and pepper, and then dried upon a gridiron. Beef Toasted Italian Fashion.—Take some steaks, and hack them ; then sprinkle them with lose vinegar, and elder vinegar, season them with sail, pepper, and coriander seed ; then lay them one upon another in a dish for an hour, and broil them on a gridirui, or loast them before the fire, and serve them in their own gravy, or their own gravy and juice of an orange, boiled togetber. Beef Tripe A la Fricas.s6e.—Let your tripe be very white, cm it into slips, put it into some boiled gravy, with a little cream and a bit of butter-mixed with flotir; stir it till the Imtter is melted : add a little white wine, lemon-peel grated, chopped parsley, pepper and salt, pickled mushrooms, or lemon juice; shake all together ; stew it a little. Beef Tripe A la Milanaise.*—Cut your tripe into fillets, and dress it in the same manner as tor beef tripe A la Provenqale ; then instead of finishing with the onions fried in uil, your tripe must he redHccd, and then putahiyerofitinloadeepdish, the bottom of which must he previously lined with croutons, then on the tripe put a layer of gr.ited p.armesnn cheese, then bread, then tripe, ami soon till your dish is filled; let the whole brown to the bottom, and then serve.B E R ( CO ) B I R BEER (lo Sweeten).—To a kilderkin of beer, throw in at tlie biiOK a quart of oatmeal, lay the bung on loose for two or three days, then stop it down close, and let it stand a month. Some throw in a piece, of clialk tiie size of a turkey’s egg ; and when it has done working, stop it close for a month, then tap it. BEEST Custards.—Put a pint of beest over the fire, with a little cinnamon or three bay leaves, till boiling hot. Pour it by degrees on a spoonful of flour, and the same of thick cream i-eady mixed up. Stir all exceedingly well together; sweeten to the palate, and bake it either in tins or cups. BEET Root.*—May be either baked or boiled ; it will take from an hour and a half to three hours, according to the size of the root, to cook properly. _ RootFricnssie.*—Put it in a stew- pan with a little butter, shred parsley, ecallions, garlic, flour, vinegar, salt and pepper; boil a quarter of an hour, and serve with white sauce. Beet Root Pickled.—Boil the roots tender, peel, and cut them in what shape you please. Put them into a jar, and pour over them a hot pickle of vinegar, pepper, ginger, and sliced horse-radish. You may add capsicums and cayenne. Beet Root /’resetwrf.*—The roots should be peeled and cut in thick slices, and placed in a pan under hot ashes for about five or six minutes, before you put them into a brine made of salt and water, and a quart of vinegar. Beet Root Stewed.—Boil them tender with the skin on ; slice it into a stewpan, with a little broth, some small onions, and a spoonful of vinegar: simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour; take off the skin just before you serve. BENJAMIN( 0// of). Beat six ouirces of benjamin into powder, put it into oil of tartar and rose-water, of each a pound. Then distil in an alembic, and put it by for use. BENTON Sauce.—Grate or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large .spoonsful of vinegar. Serve cold, with roast beef, hot or cold. Benton Tea-cakes.—Rub into a pound of flour, six ounces of butter, and three spoonsful of yeast, and make into a paste with new milk; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. BERGAMOT Drops.—Mix the juice of four or five lemons, and some sifted sugar, with a w'ooden spoon ; add to this twentv drops of essence of bergamot; mix it well in, and having stirred it over the fire three or four minutes, drop it about the size of a sixpence on writing paper, and let them stand till cold. Beugamot IVufers.— Squeeze six le- mons into a basin, and mix some sifted sugar, essence of bergamot, and tlie white of an egg, with the juice; beat them togethe.r till very white; it it be- comes too thick, add tlie juice of another lemon ; spread your pa-ste, and dry them as burberry wafers. Bb!igamot fCater.—To the rinds of three bergamots, put a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water ; draw off one gallon by the bain marie, and sweeten with sugar. Bergamot Water.—Take three gills of syriip, the juice of six lemons, and when diluted sufficiently with water, add a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot. Strain it through a fine sieve for use. Bergamot Water Ice.—Stir together the juice of three lemons, two gills of syrup, half a pint of water, and half a tea-spoonful of essence of bergamot, strain and freeze it. BETON Y, Conserve of.—Take a pound of betony, three pounds of loaf sugar, beat them in a stone mortar; boil the sugar with two quarts of betony water to the tliickness of a syrup, then mix them together by little and little, over a gen- tle fire, make it into a conserve, and keep it in glasses. Betony Flower Water.—Take betony flowers, sprinkle them with white wine or water, let them infuse for two days, then distil them in a bain marie. Bildoquet Fritters.—Break five eggs into two handfuls of flour, work them to- gether with some milk, then put in some salt and work it again ; when well made put in a tea-spoonful of powdered cinna- mon, the same of grated lemon-peel, and half an ounce of candied citron cut very small: puton a stewpan, rub it over with butter, and put in the paste; stew it gently over a stove, taking care that it does not stick to the pan. When suffi- ciently done, lay it in a dish, set on a stewpan with a large quantity of lard; when it boils, cut out the paste in pieces the size of a finger, cut it across at each end, dip each into the lard and fry them, but not too much, as they will rise too high. Sift sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, sift over more sugar, and serve. Birch /Cine.—The season for procur- ing the liquor from the birch-trees is in the beginning of March, while the sap is rising, and before the leaves shoot out; for when the sap is come forward and the leaves appear, the juice, by la'ing long oigested in the hark, grows thick and coloured, which before was while and clear.( G1 ) BIS B I S The method of proQjiring the juice is by borii\« holes in the body of the trees, and putting m fossets, which are com- monly made of the bi-anches of elder, the pith being taken out. Yon may, without hurting the tree, if large, tap it m several places, four or five at a time, and by that means save from a’ good man y trees seve- ral gallons every day; if you have not enough in one day, the bottles in which it drops must be corked close, and rosin- ed or waxed; however, make use of it as soon as you can. T.ake the sap and boil it as long as any scum rises, skimming it all the time ; to every gallon of liquor put four pounds of good sugar, the thin peel of a lemon, boil it afterwards half an hour, skimming it very well, pour it into a clean tub, and when it is almostcold, set it to work with yeast spread upon a toast; let it stand five or six days, stirring it often ; then take such a cask as will hold the liquor, fire a large match dipped in brimstone, and throw it into the cask, stop it close till the match is extinguished, tun your wine, lay the bung on light till you find it has done working; stop it close and keep it three months, then bottle it off. Birds Potted, how to preserve when they begin tngrow iarf.—When birds have come a great way they often smell so bad that they can scarcely be borne from the rankness of the butter, by managing them in the following manner they may be made as good as ever. Set a large saucepan of clean water on the fire; when it boils take oil’the butter at the top, then take the fowls out one by one, throw them into that saucepan of water half a minute, whip it out, and dry it in a cloth inside and out; continue till they are all done, scald the pot clean ; when the birds are quite cold, season them with mace, pepper and salt, according to taste, put them down close in a pot, and pour clarified butter over them. Bishop {Essence of) or Tincture of Allspice.—Steep three ounces (apothe- cary’s weight) of bruised allspice in a (j^uart of brandy, for a fortnight, occa- sionally shaking it up, then pour off the clear liquid. Good for gravies, mulled wine, potted meats, &c. &c. Bisque.—A bisciiie is a soupinragoftt, which is made either of quails, capons, pullets, or pigeons, &c. Bisque.* —Take fifty cray-fish and wash them in eight or ten waters; and put them into a stewpan witli some salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a iiuarter of a pound of butter; over a quick fire; and keep constantly stirring them with a spoon fora quarter of an hour. When your cray-fish arc done, let them drain, then take out the meat and pound it in a mortar, then put some rice into boiling water, and let it boil for a iiarter of an hour, after wliich let it rain, and then pound it in the mortar with tlie meat of the cray-fish ; wlien the whole is well pounded, put it in a stewpan with a little stock previously strained tlirougli a sieve; when this puree is done add to it a little more stock, taking care that it is neither too thick nor too clear. After you iiave prepared your cray-fish pound the shells, and when they are well pounded, add to tliem some gravy or the butter in which the cray-fish were boiled, pass tliis puree througli a sieve, and after you have strained it, put it into a stewpan over a moderate fire, you must be careful not to let either of yemxpiirees boil. When the secondjaiwee is finished, and you are ready to serve, put some croutons in a tureen and pour over them some boiling stock, tlien pour in your firstptjrde, then upon this pour yexarpuree made of the pounded shells, whicli being of a red colour will give a nice tinge to the wliole. Bisque.—Take fifty cray-fisli, well wash them and pick out the meat; pound it and then put it in a stewpan with six ounces ofbutter, some salt, pepper, nut- meg, and a piece of the crumb of new bread three times tlie size of an egg; put the whole on a quick fire, and let them cook for half an hour; then strain the whole through a sieve, and wlien strain- ed put it again into a stewpan over a gentle fire, taking care not to let it boil and that yonrpuree is not too thick; then serve with bread, the same as in the pre- ceding receipt. Bisque.—Take wliat fish you please, wash and clean it, then marinate it for an hour in white wine vinegar, a liandful of salt, wliole spice, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole onions, and the peel of a lemon grated. Nearly cover the whole of your fish with tliese ingredients, and when it is marinated in them for an liour, put it with the ingredients into a saucepan, and wlien it is about half boiled, add some boiling water to it, tliis will raake_ the fish very firm. Then fry tlie remainder of your fisli, make a rich sauce with oysters, shrimps, mushrooms, ca- pers, a biincli of sweet herbs, two ancho- vies, two onions, stuck with cloves, the yolksoflwo eggs, tlie juice of a lemon, nutmeg grated; andsomc scraped horse- radish ; mix all these together with two pounds of butter, and let it be very tliick; disli ^oiir fish, and pour over it tlie sauce. Garnisli your fried fisti witli parsley, liorse-radish and sliced leiaoii, serve it hot. OB I S BIS ) ( 6: Biscuits.—Weigh eight eggs, an equal weight of sugar, and the weight of lour in flour; beat up the yolks of five, and put them in an earthen vessel with some rasped lemon-peel and the sugar, beat them together for a long time, then add the whites of eleven eggs also well beaten, then mix in the flour by degrees, pour this into paper cases of whatever form and size you please; strew powder sugar over them, and bake in a cool oven. Biscuits.—Lay the rind of a lemon in boiling water, till it be tender; take half a pound of sweet almonds, and blanch them in cold water, and two ounces of gum-dragon, which soak in fair water; then pound the almonds, putting in as you pound, the whites of two eggs beaten hollow; pound the lemon in a stone mortar by itself, and put the gum and the lemon into thealmonds, and mix them well together ; then beat a pound of fine sugar in a mortar with the al- monds, gum and lemon, and afterwards add two pounds more of fine sugar, stirring it with a spoon, then roll it up in little rolls, and lay them upon white papers, and set them in the oven. Biscuits.—Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk into a very still'paste; beat it well, knead till quite smooth, roll very thin and cut into bis- cuits, prick and bake in a slow oven till dry and crisp. Biscuit Bread.—Dry fine flour and powder sugar, of each half a pound, thoroughly: heatup four very fresh eggs for ten minutes, then add the sugar, beat them ten minutes longer, put the flour, and continue beating ten minutes more. Butter your baking-plates and bake. Caraway or aniseed may be added, if you please. BISCOTTE de BwaWfe.* — Take two quarterns of flne flour, and divide it as in making the brioche; take rather more than a quarter of the flour to malce the leaven, put in a little more yeast, and keep the leaven moist; put to the other portion of flour half an ounce of salt, a little water, an ounce of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter and six eggs; wet the paste witli cream, work it well five or six times, mix in the leaven, knead it twice more, and then put it aside in a floured clotii to rise. In four hours take it out and divide it into three parts, work each part up and make them into the form of sponge-cakes, put them on a large baking, tin, and let them sbind for hall an hour to rise, dnrez them with milk, and Inke them; when done take them from the oven, but do not remove them from the tin. The next day cut each cake into slices, lay them in a gentle oven to dry; when very yellow they are sufficiently done. These liscoUet are generally sent up with coflee cream. Biscuits en Caisset.*—Prepare your mixture the same as for spoon biscuits, and fill some little round or square cases with it. Then \rith the rolling pin crush some fine sugar, but not to a powder, and strew it over your biscuits, which place on a copper plate, and when the sugar begins to dissolve put them in a gentle oven, at the mouth of which put a shovel full of burning coals to cris- tallizethe sugar; and when that assumes the appearance of little pearls, lemove the coals and close the oven. These biscuits will require from twenty to twenty-five minutes baking. Biscuit Cake.—One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange- flower-water, beat the whole thoroughly and bake it for one hour. Biscuits en Capsule.*—Put half a pound of fine sugar into an earthen pan, and pour over it the yolks of twelve eggs; put the whites into a preserving pan, and whisk them for half an hour; in the meantime the sugar and yolks of eggs must be stirred with a wooden spoon, and pour them on the whites; stir them gently, add six ounces of fine flour and two of powder sugar sifted, and the grated rind of a lemon. Mix it all well together, but w’ith great care, lest the snow of the w'hites should fall. With this fill some small buttered moulds, or paper cases, and bake them in a quick oven to a deep yellow, first sprinkling them with sugar. If they are in moulds, turn them out when baked; but they may remain in the paper cases, which need not be buttered. Biscuits (Sf. Cloud.)*—Sift two ounces of rice-flour through a tammj' into an earthen pan, with half a pound of powder sugar, the yolks of four eggs, and a little green lemon grated; beat them up to- gether for a quarter of an hour: whisk the whites of eight eggs to a froth and mix them with the yolks. Put this into buttered moulds or paper cases, and bake in a moderate oven. When uone t.ak’c them from the mould while hot, and ice them in the fallowing manner: be.at up half the white of an egg and two spoors- fiil of powder sugar with a wooden spoon, add occasionally a few drops of lemon juice; when it becomes quite white lay itovertlie biscuits; and pl.ace tltem in the oven a minute to dry. Biscuits (Drop).—Pound and sift a pound of fine migar, take the yelks of seven and the whites of ten eggs and boat well scp.n-ately for an hour. Dry and( 63 ) B I S s'ft a pound of fine flour, and when cold mix it witli the eggs and sugar, beat all together for a quarter of an hour, drop Upon paper, sift sugar over, and •bake them. , . Biscuits Drops.—Beat a pound ol sugar, the yolks of four, and whites ot two eggs, with a little white wine, then put in a pound of flour, and a few seeds, mix all well together. Butter a paper, lay your batter on in spoonfuls, ice them witli line sugar, and set them in a gentle oven. Biscuits(//ffrrf).*—Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it very thin, and cut into biscuits, prick and bake for about six minutes. Biscuits {Iced).—Beat up the whites of eight, and the yolks of six eggs, with a pound of fine powdered sugar, for two hours. Have ready fourteen ounces of well-dried sifted flour; when the oven is ready and your plates buttered, mix the flour as quick as possible with the eggs, &c., and lay the biscuits on the plates; you mayadd a little muskaiid ambergris. Bake in a quick oven. Biscuit Ice Cream.—Break six_ eggs into a stewpan, and beat them with a wooden spoon ; add a pint of cream, the peel of a lemon, two gills of syrup, and a little spice ; boil it till it begins to thicken, stirring constantly; crumble some Na- ples and ratafia biscuits into it, and pass the whole through a sieve, and put it into the mould, which place in ice as directed. (See Ice.) Biscuit iced., a la Royale.*—Make a Savoy biscuit of nine eggs, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and five ounces of potatoe-flour, with the addition of a lit- tle pulverised iris and orange-flower; bake it in an octagon mould, and let it cool. Make an icing with ten ounces of sugar, and one and a half whites of eggs ; mix them together with a wooden or silver spoon, putting in a few drops of lemon-juice occasionally; when very white, divide it into two equal parts, to •one of which add a little carmine to make it of a delicate rose-colour ; with these two icings, glaze, alternately, each angle of the biscuit very carefully ; keep it thin and even ; smooth it with the blade of a knife. Biscuit a I’ltalienne.*—Bake a bis- cuit, made like Iced biscuit, in a plain, round mould; cut it across, in slices an inch thick ; pour on each slice a spoonful of true maraschino, and when tiiey have imbibed this, place them in their proper I form, and mask the whole, either with B I S white of egg and sugar, as biscuit witli sweetnieats, or with apricot marmalade, on which strew pounded macaroons. Biscuits, Italian IFater.—Whisk up six eggs, and an equal weight of powder- sugar, for half an hour. Take six more eggs and their weigh t of flour, and mix all together, and lay this mixture on paper, in cakes the eighth of an inch thick, and about two inches diameter ; lay them quite flat, and do not let them touch. The oven should be hot; five minutes will bake them. When cold, wet the un- der side of the paper, and they will then remove easily. Biscuits, Jessatnine.—The Spanish jessamine is the best, but if not to be pro- cured, take English jessamine flowers, clean picked from the stalk; beat them well in a marble mortar, and put to them the whites of eggs and powdered sugar, and lay sugar under them in a dish, or on papers; cover them with sugar, and bake them in a gentle oven. Biscuits, — Break six eggs into a basin, and ivhisk them well for five minutes, add half a pound of powder- sugar, and whisk again for ten minutes longer; put some carraway-seeds and half a pound of dry sifted flour; mix them all together with a wooden spoon. iDrop them on paper about the size of a crown-piece, and thick in the middle; sift sugar over, and bake them in a brick oven. Take them off the paper while hot. Biscuits, King’s.—Put half a pound of butter into a basin, and work it about well with a wooden spoon; break six eggs and whisk them well, add half a pound of powder-sugar, and whisk ten minutes longer, and then mix them with the but- ter; stir in six ounces of currants, and the same of dried flour. When all is well mixed, drop it, the size of a shilling, on paper, and bake in a quick oven. Take them off while hot. Biscuits {large) to cut in Pieces.*— Break ten eggs, put the whites in one, and the yolks in another vessel; add to the latter, a pound of powder-sugar, a little lemon-peel, orange-flowers, and salt, mix these together well; whip the whites quite firm, and then put to them the yolks, lightly, sift over them three quarters of a pound of dried flour, stir- ring all together carefully. Put this pre- paration into paper cases, glaze and bake them in a slow oven for an hour. When cold cut them into such forms as you may think proper, and ice them. You may vary the flavour and colour of these bis- cuits as you please, by mixing any co- louring material with the icing, and by rubbing the fruit which they snould be G 2 IG4 B I S B I S flavoured with, on the sugar, before it is cruslied and mixed with tbe egg. Biscuits (//ffA/),*—Take ten eggs, put the yolks of five in a pan with a few crisped orange-flowers, the peel of a green lemon, boih shred fine, and three quarters of a pound of fine sugar; beat the whole together till the sugar is dis- solved and well mixed with the eggs. Beat the ten whites to a froth, and add to the sugar, stir in liglitly, and by de- grees, six ounces of flour, put them into buttered moulds, powdering them with fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Biscuits, Manqucs.* — Put into an earthen pan half a pound of powder- sugar, three quarters of a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of pounded almonds, a little salt, and some orange-flower water, six yolks, and two whole eggs; beat up these ingre- dients well; whip the six whites, and mix them gradually with the above pre- paration ; make a paper case, butter and pour in it your biscuit paste and bake it. Meanwhile cut some almonds into either dice or slips, mix them with some pow- der-sugar and white of egg ; when the biscuit Diunquis is about three parts done, dcrez and cover it with this latter mixture ; then replace it in the oven and finish baking. As soon as it is done, take it out and cut it into whatever forms your fancy may dictate. Biscuits, marbled*—Make twenty- four eggs, a pound of powder-sugar, and three quarters of a pound of dried and sifted flour, into a biscuit paste, as di- rected for Spoon Biscuits; then beat four ounces of dissolved chocolate in an earthen pan, and add to it a third of the paste; when it is well mixed, divide it in half, and to one half mix a quarter of the biscuit-paste, which will tinge that por- tion a light chocolate colour. After this, mix together some vegetable red and in- fusion of saffron to colour half the re- maining paste orange ; then divide that again, and mix the last quarter with half the orange-colour, thus your paste will be coloured with two shades of chocolate and two of orange. Make two paper cases, each eight inches square and three high, pour into one of these a large spoonful of the choco- late-paste, and v/hen it has spread over the bottom of the case, pour in one of the orange-coloured, on which another of the chocolate, ,and so on, alternately, until the case is half full; then sprinkle it with flour, and put it into a slow oven lor three quarters of an hour. Put the remainder of your biscuit-paste (both colours) into apan andstirthein together with a spoon till the whole is veined, or clouded with the two colours; pour it into the other case, sprinkle it with flour, and ,bake like the former; when quite cold, cut them into slices about two ■ inches thick, half of which should be broken, and the other half cut in pieces of an equal size, lay them on a baking- plate, and dry tliem in the oven. These are generally used to make the rocks in ornamental pastry, and may be coloured with the usual materials, according to your fancy. Biscuits, Marchpane.—Beat a pound of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moisten tliera with water, ttien put them and a pound of powder-sugar into asauce- pan, over a clear but not fierce charcoal fire, stirring constantly, till the paste leaves adhere together; put it on a floured slab, and work it well with your hands for some time, then roll small pieces of it about three inches long and naif the thickness of your little finger, join the ends of each and make them into round rings, lay them on a sieve in a dry warm place for two or three days. When wanted, mix some powder-sugar with the whites of eight eggs, and heat them with a wooden spoon in each band ; add a cup of orange-flower water. Put your rings into this icing, and cover them completely ; lay them on a sheet of paper and bake in a slow oven until the icing sets and they begin to change colour. Do not remove them from the paper till cold. Biscuits, Millefruit. — Take pre- served orange and lemon-peel, a quarter of a pound of each, six ounces of angelica, the same of sweet, and one ounce of bitter almonds; cut all tbe above ingredients into pieces half an inch long and a quar- ter wide. Make an icing with white of eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; put the almonds, &c. into this, and hav- ing paper on your baking-tin. lay the cakes on it, of whatever size you please ; then with a hair pencil touch them here and there with a little cochineal. Bake them, but not in too hot an oven. Biscuits, Monkey.—Take the weight of six eggs in powder-sugar, and mix it with tlie yolks and a little pounded cin- namon ; whisk the whites to a firm froth, and stir them lightly into the yolks; add four wliole eggs, and their weight of dry sifted flour, mix them well together ; take this mixture in a spoon, and lay it in about the size of a half-crown piece on paper, join two together with ilie spoon, and wlien your paper is full, sprinkle powder-sugar over and bake them ; a few minutes will do them. Remove them from the paper while hot and put the two I undersides together.B 1 S ( Co ) BIS Biscuits (jI/«scow.v).* — Take ptreen Icmoii-peel, orange-flower inartnalade, and apricot marmalade, of each four drachms; four whites of eggs, and three ounces of powder-sugar; Whip the whites to a snow, pound the marmalades and lemon-peel to a paste, and pass it through a sieve, then add the eggs and sugar, mixing them well together, put them in paper cases (buttered) and bake them. When sutlicienily done, glaze them with powder-sugar and white of egg, and decorate them with nrmpareils. Biscuits {Naples).*—V\x\, three quar- ters of a pound of fine flour to a pound of fine sifted sugar; sift both together three times, then add six eggs beaten well, and a spoonful of rose-water; when the oven is nearly hot, bake them, but not too wet. Biscuits, Niaujfes.*—Make some puff paste, roll it out two or three times more than usual, then spread it in two square layers, about tlie thickness of a crown- piece, put one of them on a baking-plate; mix with some cream pdtissiere, a hand- ful of pistachios pounded, two bitter, and a handful of sweetalmonds, blanched and pounded, a little green of spinach, powder-sugar, orange-flower water, and two eggs; spread this equally over the puS-paste for an inch thick; cover it with the other square of paste; ilorez and prick it, and mark it in divisions of tliree inches long, by one and a half wide; strew over powder-sugar, orange-flowers pra- lin6e, and sweet almonds cut in slips; bake them in a moderate oven, and when done divide them according to the marks. Trim and serve them as an entremets. Biscuit, the Nuns.—Take the whites of twelve eggs, and beat them to a froth ; a pound of almonds, blanch them, and beatftbem with the froth of the whites ofeggs, asit rises; then take the yolks, and two pounds of fine sugar and beat them well together, then mix the al- monds with the sugar and eggs; then add half a pound of flour, with the peel of four lemons grated, and some citron sjired small; put the composition in little cake-pans, and bake them in a quick oven, and when they are coloured, turn them on tins to harden the bot- toms ; but before you set them in the oven again, sift on them some double refined sugar. Let the pans be buttered, and fill them halfway. Biscuit d la Parisienne.*—Make a biscuit as directed for that Iced d la Boyafe, but bake it in a plain mould of seven inches diameter; when cold, cut it about an inch from the edge all round, to the depth of three inches ; take away the top and a great part of the crumb ; then having prepared the icing (as therein mentioned) colour it green with spinach juice ; mask the whole surface of your biscuit with this, and place it in the oven a minute to dry. When wanted for table, fill the interior of the biscuit with fromage havurois of pistachios, on which place a very white sultune. This kind of biscuit may be filled with any oxher fromage bovurois, or a whipped cream, if you like it better. The colour of the icing may also be changed accord- ing to your fancy. Biscuit Paste.*—Break a quarter of a hundred of eggs, separate the yolks and whites ; to the former put two pounds of pounded and sifted sugar, and add vanilla, or any other aromatic ingredient you please; beat them with a wooden spoon, whisk the whites until pretty firm, and then put them, together; mix in a pound and a half of meal by degrees. Butter moulds, and put in your paste; sprinkle sugar over, and bake in a cool oven. Biscuits of Preserved Fruits,or Stveei- meats.—Take dried preserved fruit, such as apricots, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange flower marmalade, pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; mix the yolks of new laid eggs, and fine powder sugar therewith, till it comes to a paste, but not too liquid, bake upon paper in a moderate oven. Biscuits (Princess Amelia).*—Put the whites of twelve eggs into an earthen pan, whisk them to a thick snow, and add to them eight ounces of double re- fined sugar, ponnded and sifted; having mixed them, put in three ounces offlour, and three of powdersugar sifted, the grat- ed rind of one or two lemons and half a cof- fee cup of orange flower water, stir them well with a wooden spoon, but take care not to spoil the snow; drop them on paper of a larger size than the sweet biscuits, and bake them to a clear brown in a moderate oven. Take them from the paper while hot. Biscuit Pudding.—Pour a pint of boiling milk over three Naples biscuits grated ; cover it close ; when cold add the yolks of four eggs, two whites, nus- meg, a little brandy, half a spoonful of flour, and some sugar. Boil it an hour in a b.isin. Biscuits, the Queen’s.—Take a pound and a half of flour, a pound and a naif of fine sugar, the whites of twenty-four, and the yelks of eighteen eggs, put in cori- ander seeds beaten small at discretion ; mix these well together, and make them into a soft paste, add a little soft yeast or not. Lay this paste on paper, or in crusts about two inches broad, and four inchesB I S C6 B I S long, set them in a moderate oven, and when they begin to turn brown, take them out, and lay them on paper, in a dry place. Biscuits, Role dc Chamlre. — Boil some sugar over a brisk charcoal fire to caramel, into this throw blanclied sweet almonds, stir them with a wooden spoon till covered with sugar, then lay them on a sieve to dry ; take care to separate those which stick together. Make an icing with sugar, whites of eggs, and a little orange-flower water; put the al- monds into this, cover them well with it, and place them on sheets of paper; do not let them touch ; put them into a moderate oven. Let them be cold before you remove them from the paper. Biscuits (Savot/).*—Whip twelve whites of eggs to a snow ; beat the yolks with a pound and a quarter of powder- sugar, mix them together, with three quarters of a pound of flour and the grated rind of a lemon, into a paste, rub your mould with melted butter, and bake it. Biscuits (Savoy), Cold.*—Takealittle more than half a pound of very fine dry flour, one pound of very dry pounded sugar, and fourteen eggs; rasp the peel of two lemons or oranges on the sugar, which put to the yolks of the eggs, and work them together with two new wooden spoons. Whip the whites in a separate vessel, (with a small pinch of calcined alum to prevent their turning), when very firm, take half to mix with the yolks, then mix the whole, and sift the flour over: mix all together gently v/ith a whip. Prepare a mould as above, and put the biscuit in. a little at a time, to prevent the bladders at the top; put some ashes on a baking dish, and put the mould over this in a moderate oven. One hour is suflicient. The same paste may be put into paper cases. Throw crushed sugar over before baking. Biscuits (Savoy), with Filberts.*— Blanch, wash, and dry your filberts, and then burn or roast them till of a fine yel- low tinge. When cold, pound and mix them the same as the almonds. Finish the biscuits as before-men- tioned. Smaller Savoy biscuits are made in a similar manner. If you should not be able to procure potatoe-flour, wheat-flour may be used, taking care to dry it perfectly; a larger quantity of the latter will then be requi- site ; two pounds and a quarter will be equal to one and three quarters of the potatoe-flour. Biscuits (-Sfluoy), //of.—Break a dozen etrgs into a vessel over another contain- ing water nearly boiling; beat them up in it with a pound of fine sifted sugar. When the eggs are no longer soft, put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a j silk sieve; mix the flour well with the i eggs, by shaking the sieve, then add two spoonsful of orange-flower water. Rub a mould over with butter, powder some sugar over, and pour in year paste; sprinkle mere sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven for three-quarters of an hour. Biscuits (Savoy), Large.* — Take i fifty-six eggs, four pounds of sugar, the i zeales of four oranges, a pound and three- quarters of potatoe-flour sifted ; and make your biscuit as follows : grate the zestes of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as soon as it becomes coloured, scrape it off', and grate again until all the zeste is done, then dry the sugar perfectly, crush and sift it. Break your eggs one by one, (taking care that all are perfectly fresh); put the yolks and whites into separate ves- sels; mix half your sugar with the for- mer, stirring it in with a spatula until perfectly smooth, then add the remain- der, and work it well for twenty minutes. VVhip the whites till quite firm, putting in a small quantity of pounded alum; when sufficiently whipped, which may be known by little points rising when the | whisk is taken out; mix a little with the i yolks ; still, however, keeping the whites | stirring; then pour the yolks on them I very gently, mixing them together as j you pour, with the whisk: sift over the \ whole a pound of potatoe-flour, stirring the mixture all the time; when ready to put into the mould, your paste should be very smooth, and somewhat of the consistence of treacle. Butter the mould, and put in a few spoonsful of your paste at firstj to prevent any globules of air appearing on the top when baked ; pour in the remainder carefully. Cover a baking-plate with hot ashes, lay the mould in the midst of them, and place it in a moderate oven ; keep it open for an hour, that the biscuit may be watched, and if it takes colour too quickly, cover it with paper. In three hours time take it from the oven, and if it be of a good colour,and firm, turn it on a baking-tin. tie round it a band of double paper, and replace it in the oven for a quarter of an hour to dry. Inin, with Almonds.* — The ingre- dients for this biscuit are the same as above, with the addition of four eggs, and half a pound of bitter almonds: blanch the almonds, then wash, drain, and dry them in a napkin; pound them with whites of eggs in the usual way. to a fine paste, pass it through a sieve, and( 67 ) BIS B 1 S then mix it with the additional eggs; add this to the sugar and yolks, and pro- ceed as above. . Biscuit Sea,* d la Fran^aisc, — Mix half a pound of flour with the grated rind of a lemon, four eggs, and s little salt; stir them with a wooden spoon; lay this preparation in two large cases, dorez and bake them in a tolerably hot oven. When done, take them out of the cases whilst hot, and cut them in pieces the size of a little finger; put them again into the oven to dry, and colour them. . Biscuits (Small).—Make a paste with a quarter of a pound of flour, three spoonsful of fine powder-sugar, and the same of marmalade; add whites of eggs to work it pretty soft; and make this paste to what shape and size you please. Biscuits, Spice.—Take three pounds of flour, three pounds of almonds, cut in half, three ounces of cinnamon and mace pounded, and one pound of powder- sugar ; mix them all together on your slab; boil three pounds of Lisbon sugar with some water; make the above ingre- dients into a paste with this, and roll it to the size of a large rolling-pin ; lay it on a sheet of paxier, flat it down a little with your hand, keeping it higher in the mid- dle than at the ends; put it into a very hot oven; when done, take it out, and while hot, cut it across, in slices an eighth of an inch thick, and dry them. Biscuits, Fine Sponge. — Break twelve eggs, separate the yolks and whites; to the former put three quar- ters of a pound of powder-sugar, stir them well with a wooden spoon, till it rises in large bladders; whisk the whites to a very firm froth, and then mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, and when incorporated, add ten ounces of fine dried and sifted flour. Stir them all together well, and pour the mixture into well-buttered tin moulds, sift sugar over, and bake them in a moderate oven. Take them from the tins whilst hot. Biscuits (Spoon).*—Break four eggs, put the yolks and whites into separate basins; add to the former a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; having grated on It the zesfeot a lemon, mix these together well with a spatula for ten minutes; then whip the whites to a froth, and put about halfof them to the yolks, and when that is well mixed in, add the rest; stir it very lightly, and lay them with a spoon on paper, make them about three inches long, and the breadth of a finger. Glaze them with powder-sugar, and place them on baking tins, and, as ‘the sugar dis- solves, and they shine, put the biscuits into a moderate oven, which must be kept open for seven or eight minutes then close it until your biscuits are of a proper colour. When cold, detach them from the paper vvith a thin knife-blade, and lay tlitm by, in couples, the glazed sides outwards, till wanted. Biscuits (Siweer).*—Take halfa pound of fine pounded sugar, and sift it througli a tammy. Put the whites of twelve eggs into a preserving-pan, and the yolks into an earthenware tureen; whip tiie whites to a snow, and then enrefuliy pour on it the yolks and sugar; stir them gently; place your pan over a chafing-dish ; con- tinue whipping the whole for a full half hour, and then, if the drop which falls from the whisk lays a little while without spreading, take it from the fire, and whisk again till it is cold ; then add half a pound of fine sifted flour, stir it in gently with a wooden spoon. Drop them on paper, sift sugar over, and bake them in a warm oven until of a deep yellow ; take them from the papers while warm ; bake them as soon as possible after they are dropt on paper. Biscuits, Sweetmeat.—Cat some Na- ples biscuits into pieces about an inch thick, and an inch and a half square, and just crisp them in the oven. Make some icing with whites of eggs, sugar, and orange-flower water; dip one side of the biscuit into it; cut some preserved lemon and orange-peel and angelica into small pieces; strew them over the biscuits, and dry the icing in the oven. Biscuit ivith Sweetmeats.*—Veepave your biscuit as d la Parisietine, bake it in a plain round mould, six inches dia- meter, and five or six high. When quite cold cut it across in slices three quarters of an inch thick; cover each slice with apricot marmalade, and re- place them according to their original form. Have ready the whites of three eggs whipped firm, and mixed with a quarter of a pound of fine powder sugar, mask the biscuit with tins, and strew crushed sugar on this ; put it in a slow oven to colour it. Serve it cold. You may strew over the icing, either pistachios cut in dice, currants mixed with sugar, and use any marmalade or jelly you may think proper. Biscuits {Si/ringc).—Jie&t a pound of sweet almonds to a very fine paste, moist- ening them with white of egg,and having grated the rinds of six lemons, mix them in two pounds and a half of powder* sugar with the almond-paste. Take a syringe mould, the bottom of which sliould be flat, and a star cut out in the centre ; half fill your syringe with tlie paste, and press it through, on toa well-floured slab, cut in pieces aboutthreeInches in length.(C3) B L A B L A lay them on three sheets of paper to pre- vent their burning, and bake them in a brisk oven. Biscuits, Toad-in-a-Hole. — Beat a pound of sweet, and an ounce and a lialf of bitter almonds to a fine smoot.li paste, moisten with water, and mix tlie paste, which should not be too tliin, with a pound and a quarter of Lisbon sugar. Lay a slieet of writing-paper on your baking-plate, and wafer-paper on that; lay the biscuits about the size of a half- crown piece; put_ a dried cherry in the middle ofeacli; sift sugar over and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, cut the wafer-paper round, but do not take it away. Biscuits, Yarmouth.—Pick and wash half a pound of currants, dry them well, rub a little flour with them, and put them with half a pound of powder-sugar, three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, and half a pound of fresh batter; mix them into a paste with three eggs, roll it out to the thickne.ss of the eighth of an inch, cut them into what shapes you please. Bake them of a light colour in a hot oven. Black Cock—ls dressed in the same way as partridge; a small one will take thirty, a full grown one forty or fifty mi- nutes to roast. Serve with currant-jelly and fried bread-crumbs. Gravy and bread sauce. Black Puddings.—Boil a peck of grits for half an hour in water, then drain and put them into a tub or pan; the hog lieing killed, save two q^uarts of the blood, and stir it till quite cold, when the grits may be mixed with it, still stirring; sea- son it with a large spoonful of salt, cloves, nutmeg, and mace, a quarter of an ounce of each, pounded and dried; flavour it with winter savory, sweet marjoram, thyme, and penny-royal, all chopped small. The next day, cut the leaf of the hog into dice, cleanse the entrails well, tie them at one end, and begin to fill them, putting in plenty of fat with the other ingredients, fill them about three parts full, tie the other end of the skins, prick and boil them gently for an hour ; then take them out, and lay them on clean straw. Bi.ack Pudding.—Soak a quart of whole grits for twelve hours in as much boiling hot milk as will swell them, and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop some pennyroyal, savory, and thyme, salt, pepper, and allspice pounded; mix them with a quart of blood, half fill the skins with it, and add as much of the leflf as will make it pretty rich ; boil in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, lest they burst. When sufficiently done, lay them in clean cloths till cold. AVhen to be used, scald them a few mi- nutes and broil them. Black Pudding, Scotch way.—Chop off the head of a goose, save the blood ; stir it till cold, then mix it as above di- rected with grits, spice, sweet herbs, salt, and beef suet, chopped; take the skin from the neck, pull put the wind- pipe and fat, fill your skins, tie them at both ends. Blackberrv JVine.— Viit full ripe blackberries into a large vessel with a cock in it, pour on as much bailing water as will cover them, and as soon as the heat will permit, bruise them well with the hand till all the berries are broken; cover them, and in about three or four days, when the berries rise to the top, draw oil the clear part into another ves- sel ; add to every ten quarts of the liquor one pound of sugar, stir it well in, and let it stand a week or ten days to work. Draw it oil'through a jelly-bag. Sleep four ounces of isinglass in a pint of sweet wine for twelve hours, then boil it slowly till dissolved, put it in a gallon of the blackberry juice, boil them together, and then put all together ; let it stand a few days, and bottle. Blanc.—A mixture of butter, salt, water, and a slice ot lemon; also as fol- lows :—Cut a pound of beef suet, and the same of fat bacon into dice, half a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt and pepper, one or two onions, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bay leaf and spice. Blanc.*—Take half a pound of the beef fat, half a pound of bacon, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, two carrots, two onions cut in half, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few bay leaves, the juice of a lemon, some salt, whole pepper, and two glasses of stock, and boil tne whole for some time, it will be then fit for use. Blanc.*—Put one pound of grated bacon, one pound of fat, halfa pound of butter, two lemons cut in slices, and the white taken out, two bay leave.s, two cloves, four carrots cut into dice, four onions, and a very small quantity of wa- ter, into a saucepan, and boil the whole till it is reduced. You must take care to keep stirring to prevent your Uanc from catching; when all the moisture is suck- ed up and the lat is melted, moisten it with water; add some clarified salt, let it boil and skim it; it is then ready for use. Blancmange.—To one ounce of picked isinglass, put a pint of water. l)oil it till the isinglass is melted, with a bit of cin- namon ; put to it three quarters of a pint of cream, two ounces of sweet almonds, six bitter ones blanched and beaten, a( 69 ) B L A B L A bit of lemon-peel, sweeten it, stir it over the fire, let it boil, strain and let it cool, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and put into moulds; garnish to your fancy. Blanc-mange may be coloured green by adding spinach-juice ; red, by a bit of cochineal in brandy, let it stand half an hour and strain it; yellow with saflron. BLA7ic-isA}iGE,Diailoii7isaua;Avelines.* —Pound and blanch six ounces of filbert nuts, and beat tliem up with three glasses of scalded cream; squeeze them through a napkin to extract as much milk as possible from your almonds; then gradually pour it upon two large spoons- ful of rice flour, and beat it vvell toge- ther, taking great care not to let it be lumpy, adding three ounces ol sugar and a very small quantity of salt; put it to turn over a moderate fire, and dry it for forty minutes until it becomes quite a stififthick paste; then put it on a dish and leave it to cooj; when cold, roll it into strips, cut tliem into small pieces about the size of a filbert, and as you cut them roll them into balls and lightly sprinkle them with flour. The whole being thus prepared, place some of them in a small cullender, and put the cullender into batter, so hot that the diablotins will immediately catch (this batter should Lave been standing on the stone for two hours), and become of a nice dark colour in almost an instant. Then take your cullender out of the batter, put your balls in a napkin, roll them in powdered sugar, and serve them on a very hot plate. Fry the remainder of your dia- blotins, serving them hot and hot. Blanc-mange Put a pintof cleared calPs-foot jelly into a stewpan ; mix with it the jfolks of six eggs, set it overafire,and whisktill it begins to boil; then set the pan in cold water, and stir the mixture till nearly cold, to prevent it from curdling, and when it begins to thicken fill the moulds. Blanc-jiange d la Fran<;aise. — Blanch one pound of sweet, and a score oi bitter almonds: drain them on a sieve, and afterwards dry them, by rub- bing them in a napkin; pound them in a mortar, continually moistening them with half a tea-spoonful of water at a time, to prevent their oiling. When they are pounded as fine as possible, take them out of the mortar, and put them into a psn; then with a silver spoon, beat up your almonds gradually, with five glasses of filtered water; after this, spread a napkin over an oval disli, and put your almonds upon it; then gather up the corners of your napkin, and wring it very tight, to press out all the milk from the almonds; then put into this milk, twelve ounces of crystal- lized sugar, broken into small pieces ; when the sugar is dissolved, pass the whole through a napkin ; and then add to it one ounce of clarified isinglass, rather warmer than hdtewarm; and when the whole_ is well incorporated together, pour it into your mould. Your mould should be previously put into ten pounds of pounded ice ; when your blanc- mange is ready to serve, (which will be in two hours after it has been put into the mould), you must take it out of the mould according to the rule prescribed in Violet Jelly. Blanc-mange Fritters.*—Put a quar- ter of a pound of ground rice iiito a stewpan, mix wiili it two eggs, a pint of milk, and two ounces of sugar; let it boil two hours, stirring it frequently; when well thickened, take it off, and add a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange-flowers, shred, and a little salt: the whole being well mixed, spread it upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and when cold, cut it into little bits, and make them into balls, with your hands floured ; fry on lard, and when dark- coloured, sugar and serve. Blanc-mange Fritiers en Gimhlettes.* —Prepare tlie paste the same as for BluHC-mtinge Diablotins aux Avetines. When it is cold, cut it, and form it into your gimblelles; cut the pieces out from the middle with a paste-cutter, nearly two inches in diameter. Then mask these little rounds (which you have cut from the gimblelles) all over with crumb of bread, very finely grated ; this must be done with the greatest care, for fear of spoiling their shape. After having masked them in bread-crumbs, dip them in four eggs beaten up ; then drain them, and again mask them in bread-crumbs. In the same manner prepare the ghn- llettes, placing them upon plates; and when you wish to serve, fry them of a nice colour; then sprinkle them all over with sugar, and place your little rounds in the centre of a dish, and arrange your gimblelles I'own^i them. Blanc-jjanoe Friiters en Gimblelles, glazed loitii Utigar.* — Prepare your gimhlettes exactly the same as in the preceding receipt; and when you wish to serve them, fry them in butter as usual. Phen drain them, after which, glaze them in caramel sugar. You may if you like, as you take tliem out of tlie frying- pan, strew them over with pistachio nuts, cut very small, or dried orange flowers. Blanc-mange trilk — Boil an ounce and a half of isinglass, and when quite dissolved, strain it. Let it cool for half au hour, skim, and pour it free fioiu( 70 ) BOA B L A sediment into another pan; then whisk with it a table-spoonful of ceilrat, and half a pound of currant jelly, strawberry, or raspberry jam ; and when it be^jins to jelly, fill the moulds. Blano-mange, Hot.*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, with eight bitter al- monds ; pound them very fine, and put iliem into a stewpan; then put the same quantity of cream with a quarter more into another stewpan, and boil it with some sugarj and when it boils put in your almonas, mix them well together, and then pass them through a bolting cloth; a quarter of an hour before you wish to serve it, put your preparation over the fire; turning it the same as a louillie ; reduce it, and continue turning until it is thick and keeps to the spoon ; then pour it into a silver dish, and serve. Blanc-jiange, the Italian JVny.—Take a cold capon that has been either boiled or roasted, take off the skin, mince the meat, and then pound it in a mortar with blanched almonds; then add some capon broth and grated bread, salt, rose- water, and sugar, previously strained tJirough a sieve ; then boil the whole till it is of a good consistence; then either put it into a paste, or stew it. Blanc-mange without either Isinglass or Icing.*—Prepare your almonds in the same manner as in the receipt for Blanc- mange a la Franfaise, but only using half the quantity specified in that receipt, and likewise leaving out the isinglass. Then put into a pan the whites of four eggs, and whip them till they begin to whiten, then add your blanc-manger, and place your pan over hot ashes, and con- tinue to whip your preparation until the egg is thoroughly mi.xed with the al- monds, and the whole begins to turn to a thick cream; and when it is of a proper consistence, pour into little cups, and serve it either hot or cold. AVhen you wish to serve this entremet in little cups, and of any flavour you please, you must only make use of two- thirds of the quantity of almonds, named in the receipt for Blunc-mange a la FrariQaise. Beanc-jiange wff/i preserved Orange. — Fill the orange with blanc-mange; when cold, stick in long slips of citron, like leaves, pour blanc-mange in a dish, and when cold, place the orange in the middle ; and garnish with dried or pre- served fruit. Blanc-mange may be put into any shaped moulds, and garnished and co- loured according to fancy. Beanc-jiange {Hiktnd).—Put into a mould some white blanc-manger. about two inches deep, and when cold, put alternately, cleared calve’s feet, red or Dutch blanc-mange. Beanc-ma.\ge en Surprise.*—Take the crumb from a raspeda cafe without injuring the crust, which ice with pow- der-sugar and orange-flower water; place it a minute in the oven or stove to dry ; fill the inside with blanc-mange, place it in a dish, and cover it with firm blanc-mange, in the form of a pyramid. BLOND (to clarify), for the Table.— Whip the whites of lour eggs in a large pipkin, and put the blond to them; set the whole on the fire on a stewpan ; con- tinue to whip till near boiling, when it will have become white. Then put it in the stove, with fire over and under. When quite clear, strain it through a sieve. B EOND orVeal Gravy.—Put a few' slices of lean ham into a thick stewpan, and lay over it some slices of lean veal; half cover the meat with jelly-stock ; stew it over a brisk fire, taking care it does not burn ; when the broth is reduced, thrust a knife into the meat, that the gravy may run out, and then stew’ it more gently till brown, turning the meat frequently. When of a dark red colour, moisten w'ith hot stock, season with shred mushrooms, parsley and green onions; when it has boiled an hour, skim, and strain it through a tammy for use, to clarify. BOAR Baked.—Season the leg of a wild boar well (having taken out tlie bone), lard it with bacon, seasoned with pepper, ginger, and nutmegs pounded, or lay it in soak two days, and parboil it, put it into a good thick crust; then strew over it some pepper, ginger, and nutmeg, all pounded, and some whole cloves, and bay leaves, slices of bacon, and a good quantity of butter; then cover with crust and bake it. Boar’s Head.—Let it be well singed, and rubbed with a piece of briclc. to take off the hair; then scrape it with a knife, and clean it well: this done, bone it, and cut out the two jaw-bones, and cut ofl the snout; slit it underneath, so that it may stick to the skin on the top. and take aw’ay the brain and tongue; then take some salt, and rub it into all parts of the flesh; put the head together again, and wrap it up, and tie it in a napkin ; then put it into a large sauce- pan of hot water, with some leaf fat of a hog, two bay leaves, all sorts of sweet herbs, coriander, .and aniseed, salt, nut- meg. and cloves, pounded, rosemary and an onion ; when it is half boiled, add to it a quart of wine, and keep it boiling for twelve houi-s. You may also boil the tongue in tlie same liquor; wrhen it isB 0 I B 0 I { 71 ) ready, let It cool in its own litiuor ; when cold, put it on a dish, and serve it cold, either wliole, or in slices. Boau, fVild, roasted.—it with lardons of bacon, without cutting oil either head or feet; roast, and eat it with vinegar and pepper, or orange, salt and pepper. , 130CKINGS.—Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea-cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it stand before the fire about an hour, to rise; tlien mix four eggs, well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same way. BOILING.—The operation ofhoiling meat, has been too commonly treated as a department of the culinary art—that required no art at all. Hence, we may possibly trace in the slovenly manage- ment of the pot, the well-known adage, that a leff of mutton boiled, is a leg of mutton spoiled; whilst with due defer- ence to good old sayings, which generally have originated in truth and experience, we are to be numbered among those who think a leg of mutton boiled, one of the. most delectable plain dishes that belong to the old English school of unsophisti- cated cookery. But the joint must be judiciously chosen, sufficiently kept, and skilfully cooked—for simple as it may appear, there is no small skill required in the management of the arcana of the pot. Hard water is improper for boiling meat and where soft water is not to be pro- cured, the cook cannot be expected to do justice to her reputation, even with the greatest attention to her business. So with pulse, a pease pudding is an abomi- nation, if nut boiled in soft water. It is now an established point among the best authorities, that the meat should be immersed in the pot upon the fire, whilst the water is cold, that it may be- come progressively heated with the water, and thereby gradually boiled; for by not immersing it in the water un- til hot, as of old, the sudden transition from cold to heat not only rendered the meat dark in complexion, but tough. Cooks should be careful in managing the form of certain meat for the pot, either by skewering or tying, where ne- cessary: for shapeless masses of flesh, of unequal thickness, cannot be equally cooked, as the thinner parts must of necessity be overdone, before the thicker ortion is equally acted upon by the oiling water. All meats are best cooked, whether by steam nr immersion, by being slowly or gently boiled; consequently the lire must be properly attended to, and a vigilant eye kept upon the state of the not. Modern experiments, thanlcs to the enlightened few who have applied the science of chemistry to the improvement ofthe culinary art, have proved that water for all the purposes, of this department of cooking, can but boil. That galloping bustle of the pot, and flapping of the cover, which alone satisfied the impatient, over-notable housewives of the last age, is now proved to have been, mere “ Hubble-bubble, Toil and trouble to no other end than to save a little time, at an enormous expense of fuel, and thus converting excellent meat from the lar- der, into an execrable dish for the table. Hence, many domestic broils, upon un- successful boils, in those days when even the potent demonstrations of science were vainly opposed to the prejudices of the boiling pot. Salted meats above all animal aliments should be slowly boiled. Indeed for these, the pot should be kept in a simmering state,which cannot be managed without vigilance, as it is indispensable that the fire should be attended to; for one act of the poker by an impatient hand, may' set the pot into a too violent state of ebulli- tion, whilst too low a fire, from inatten- tion, may reduce the heat of the water, so as to injure the meat, for too low, as well as too high a degree of heat will render all boiled flesh hard or tough. It is indispensable also that the water should entirely cover the meat; conse- quently the dimensions ofthe pot should be suited to the bulk of the joint. Other evil consequences arise from boiling too violently ; as, by the force of the steam the cover of the pot is con- stantly lifted up, and with the escape of the steam thus liberated, the more vola- tile and savoury particles of the meat es- cape also,and the meat is thereby depriv- ed of its flavour, and rendered less nutri- tious. This constant opening and shut- ting of the lid moreover renders the pot liable to the admission of smoke, and sometimes even of soot, which taints the meat and broth, beyond endurance. Large joints, as rumps and rounds of beef, hams, &c. where there is suitable convenience, are best boiled in a copper, as it IS less difficult to regulate the heat of a copper fire than that of a kitchen range. A discreet cook, will be known by her economy in the management of the fire. The waste of fuel is an evil of magnitude, proportioned to the means of every household, it being an article of great cxpencc in most parts of the kingdom.B O I ( 5 Boilixg. — Moat before boiliner or roastiiiB slioiikl be washed, an<l it is im- proved in colour by soakintf. Forroiist- ing or baking, however, before it is put on the spit or in tlie oven, it should be wiped and dried. _ It is impossible to complete the opera- tion of boiling without due care in skim- ming the pot. The instant the water approaches boiling heat, the scum which rises to the surface must be cleared oH'; and in this early state of the process, from the operation of the heat disengag- ing the coagulated matter, which thus floats, the skimming must be patiently followed up, or it will attach itself to the meat, and thereby spoil its appearance. The cook must not neglect to skim dur- ing the whole process, though the coa- gnlum rises less frequently the longer it boils. By strict attention to this impor- tant part of the process of boiling, the custom of wrapping the meat in a cloth, may be dispensed with. Indeed, the only reason assigned for this, is to pre- serve its appearance ; whilst, it the pot be carefully skimmed, the meat will be cooked clean and pure, and come out of the vessel in which it is boiled, still more delicate, white and firm, than when so wrapped up—the flavour too is im- proved by the absence of the cloth. The learned in the art of boiling re- commend dillerent periods for the com- pletion of the process, some allowing fifteen minutes to each pound—others twenty, and some even more. All the best authorities, however, as Dr. Kit- chiner, Accum, _Mrs. Kundell, and others, agree in this, that the longer the boiling, the more perfect the operation. The French cuisinier may claim the honours of a scientific stew, but the Eng- lish cook against the whole world for a delicate boil. It is of consequence, as before said, to suit the cooking vessel to the joint, for there should be no space for super- fluous water. The scientific allowance being about a pint of water to a pound of meat. It is siiflicicnt that the joint be entirely covered, as the richness of the juices are best preserved in propor- tion to the least quantity of water. The liquor, indeed, thus becomes broth, and should be consequently preserved, to use for that useful purpose, as by thus slowly boiling, or simmering, it imbibes no inconsiderable portion of savoury nutriment. As the water wastes whilst boiling by evaporation,the potsliould be replenish- ed, for the water must constantly cover the meat. A little cold water, too, ac- 2 ) B 0 U celerates the rising of the scum to the suifacc. When taken from the pot, the meat must be carefully wiped, ^me use a clean cloth for this purpose, but aspunge previously dipped in hot water, and wrung dry, is more convenient. This is done by wringing 'and cleansing the sponge in hot water prepared at hand. Be careful not to let the meat stand, but send it to table with all convenient speed, or it will darken in complexion, and become hard. Boiled meat, as well as roast, cannot be served too hot. BOUCHEES de Dames,*—Mix with six eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, three ounces of potatoe-flour, a little salt, and a pinch of dried orange flowers : beat them together well, and having buttered a tin, lay your paste on it, and bake it in a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour; when done, cut it in pieces, about the size of a crown piece, and glaze them, mask them according to your pleasure, and dry them in the oven. Bouchees {Pelites), de Dames,*— Take two ounces of spoon-biscuit paste, and lay it on paper, about the size of a half-crown, cover them wiih sifted sugar, and put them in a moderate oven as soon as the sugar dissolves; take them out when properly done, and remove them from the paper and and let them cool; then mask the unglazed side (that which was next the paper), with apricot mar- malade, as you do two, join them to- gether ; when all are done, put a quwter of a pound of sugar and the white of an egg into a pan, and stir it about with a silver spoon for ten minutes, adding now and then a little lemon juice to keep it white; ice the bouchies de dames all over with this mixture, place them on paper, and put them just within the oven, that they may dry, without chang- ing colour. Bouchees (Peiites), Glades.*—Roll some pufT-paste to about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and with a plain round paste-cutter, of two inches diame- ter, cut out as many cakes as you may require; then with a smaller cutter, take out the middle of half the number, so as to make rings of them; moisten the edges of the former, and lay the rings on them ; wet them also as yon lay them down, sprinkle them lightly with powder- sugar, and hake them in a brisk oven. These bouchees require great attention in baking, as the sugar is apt to dissolve and colour too quickly ; when done, they should be of a reddish tinge. Fill them with sweetmeats, preserves, or whipped cream, according to fancy.) BOU B 0 U (7 Tiiey may be cut into squares, ovals, lozenges, &c. if you think proper. Bouchees de Monsieur*—Pound a stick ot vanilla with tw;o ounces of pow- der-sugar, and tlien sift it; mix with it seven additional ounces of dry powder- sugar, and half a pound of sifted flour ; add to this the whites of four eggs, whip- ped firm, and work them together till the paste is very smooth and soft. Heat two copper-plate.s, rub them over with wax, and then wipe them; when cold, lay the paste with a knife, in pieces about the size of a filbert, shaped quite round, leave three quarters of an inch space between each ; when the plates are full, put them on stools in an oven, so that they can receive no heat from below, then put a stove with hot coals on the top of the oven, and let them remain in this state for twenty-four hours; then put them for fifteen or twenty minutes into a moderate oven. Take them from the plates whilst hot, and as soon as cold, finish them in the same way as bouchees (le dames ; glaze them with chocolate, d la rose, with pistachios, orange, cedrat, 8sc. &c. They may also be masked with sugar, pistachios, currants, &c. Bouchees (Petites), Meringuies aux Pisfaches.*—Make them the same as above, strew sugar over without wetting the rings, and bake them to a light co- lour in a moderate oven. Then mix a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar with thi"ee whites of eggs, well whipped, and mask the bouchees lightly with it, and glaze them with sugar; haying ready a quarter of a pound of pistachio-nuts blanched, and each cut across sloping ; place these pieces round the edge of the bouchits like a crown; and each piece of the pistachios being placed on the cut side, they stand out from the edge of the bmchee: this process being finished, put them in the oven again a few mi- nutes, to colour the egg; and in the mean lime stir up the white of egg which remains, and make with it half as many 7jieringiiies as you have bouchies, sprin- kle them with sugar, and colour both aides of them in a slow oven ; and when the bouchees are ready for table, fill them with whipped cream, with pista- chios. and cover each with half a me- ringue. Bouchees (Petites), PerUes.*—\o\xT bouchf.es being made and baked as above, whip the whites of two eggs to a firm froth, and mix them with four spoonsful of sifted sugar, and when very smooth, mask your bouchees \y\t\\ it: then take some white of egg, and with the point of a knife, drop them in pearls about the size of a grape-stone, round each bou- halfan inch apart, sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and dry the egg m the oven, taking care they do not lose their whiteness. When cold, place between each pearl a smaller one of red-currant jelly. Fill your bouchies with apricot marmalade, apple-jelly, &c.; if, however, the jelly, or whatever else you may use, be of a red colour, your intermediate pearls should be composed of light-coloured preserve, such as apricot marmalade, &c. These should be pearled a few at a time only'. Bouchees (Petites), Pralinees. * — Having prepared the as usual, durez and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are of the proper colour, mask them with whites of eggs mixed with sugar, and almonds minced very small; replace them in the oven a minute or two, and then strew red, or any other coloured sugar on them, but not so thick as to cover the almonds en- tirely. Fill the bouchees as usual. Bouchees (Petites), d la Reine.*— The same as above, only the paste must be cut thicker, and before you dorez, let them stand a few minutes. Bake in a brisk oven. BOUCONS.—Take the lean of a fillet of veal, cut it into long and thin slices, and lay them on a table ; place some bits of bacon, such as you use in larding, and as many of raw ham, one fat and one lean, the length of your slices of veal; then strew them all over with shred parsley and cives, and season them with spices and sweet herbs; then roll the slices of veal, bacon, and ham, up very handsomely, and stew them d la braise ; when they are stewed, drain the fat from them ; put to them a good cullis, and a ragout of mushrooms, truffles, &c. and serve them hot. BOUILLON de Santi.— Put into a stock-pot six pounds of beef, half a hen, and a knuckle of veal. Moisten with cold water. Let it boil so that the scum rises only by degrees, skim it well, then throw into it two carrots, two leeks, a head of celery, two onions stuck with three clove.<, and three turnips. I^et the whole simmer gently four hours. Put in a little salt, and take offall the fat. BOUQUET/Fa<er.—Take the flowers of white lilies and Spanish j'essamine, of each half a pound ; orange, jonquil, and pink, flowers, of each four ounces; da- mask rose leaves, one pound ; let all be fresh gathered, and put into an alembic with a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water. Place it in the lain marie, and draw it oil' till the leaves be- gin to rise. HB RE ( 7‘ BRA ) BOURGUIGNOTTE. - Cut Bome truffles into balls the size of a nutmeg; take some small round mushrooms, and put about twenty of each into a small stewpan : pour over them a pint of red wine, with a small lump of sugar t re- duce the wine to a glaze. Then tl)row into the stewpan six spoonsful of ciyjtrg- nole, and two of consmnma. Boil the whole for half an hour, taste it, and if well seasoned, serve it up. BOUTONS.—Make a good, well sea- soned godiveau; lay this upon broad thin slices of bacon, such as will wrap up your whole bouton ; put to it a good ragout of veal sweet-breads, mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms, truffles, and asparagus tops, dressed with white sauce; then cover this tvith another layer of godi- veau, and slices of bacon ; then bake it either between two fires, or dress it otherwise ; when it is done, take off the fat; add some lemon juice, and garnish with farced rolls, frincandeaux, and marinades. You may make boutons of fish, by making the godiveau of carp, tench, eel, or what fish you please, well mincea and seasoned. BRAISE, {to.)*—This is a method of dressing meat, poultry, &c. &c. without its undergoing any evaporation. It is done by lining a braising-pan with thin slices of bacon, beef, or veal, upon which place whatever you may intend to braise, and also add carrots, onions, lemons, bay- leaf, herbs, pepper and salt. BRAISING Pan.—A deep well-tin- ned copper vessel, with two ears, the lid of which must close hermetically, and have a ledge round so that coals or hot ashes may be placed on the top when necessary. brandy Cream.—HoW two dozen blanched sweet almonds, anti three bit- ter pounded, iu a little milk. AVhen cold, add to it the yolks of five eggs well l)caten in a little cream, sweeten and put to it two ghasses of the best brandy, and when well mixed, add a quart of thin cream ; set it over the fire, but do not let it bod; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into glasses. When cold it will be ready; if you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. A ratafia drop may be added. Bhandv Pudding.—Jmc. a mould with Jar-iaioins stoned, or dried cherries, then lay lliin slices of French roll; next jnit a layer of ratafias or macaroons, then the Iruit, rolls, .and cakes, in sncces.sion, un- til llie mould be full, pouring in at times two glassc.s of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites separately, nut to them a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweeten- ed, half a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon grated. Pour it into the mould, and when the solid has imbibed it all, flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil an hour; keep the mould the right side up- wards. BRAWN, to Bake.—Take raw lean brawn, and the same quantity of fat ba- con, mince them small, then pound them in a stone mortar, with a handful of sage, seasoned with salt, pepper and ginger, add the yolks of eggs, and some vinegar, then put the brawn into a cold paste, lay on butter and bay leaves, make your pie round and bake it. To be eaten cold. B nAWN (Mock).—Take four cow-heels, clean and wash them thoroughly, and boil in plenty of water till very tender, then take them out and shred theni in long pieces, which put in a stewpan, just cover them with stock and let them stew a little; have ready chopped a handful of capers, half as many gherkins, and one glass of vinegar, stir them in with the heels ; put all this into a mould, and when cold take it out. Bhawn {Mock).— Boil two pair of neats’ feet very tender, and pick the flesh entirely from the bones ; take the belly-piece of pork, and, boil it, when nearly done, bone and rtll up the meat ol the feet in the pork very tight; then wrap a coarse cloth tightly round it, and tie it with tape. Boil it very tender, and hang it in a cloth till cold, then put it in some sousing liquor, and keep it for use. Brawn, to Souse.—Take a brawn about three years old, cut off the head close to the roots of the cars, and cut a fine collar oil the side bone and hinder legs, an iitrh deeper in the belly than on the back, bone them; bind them up. equally at both ends, let them lie in water to soak a night and a day, put them into boiling water, keeping them continually skimmed, and after the first quick boiling, le.ssen the fire by degrees; let them stand over it a whole night, then take them off. put them into ocep hoops, and bind tliem with tape; and when they are cold, put them into a marinade of oat-meal and bran boiled in water; strain it, when itiscold,througba sieve ; pnt in vinegar and salt. nmMosc up the vessel tight, and keep it for use. Brawn (Nonse/or).—Boil a quarter of a iieck ol wheat bian, .a sprig ol bay. a sin igof rosemary, in two gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it for halt an hour, strain, and let it get cold. BREAD.—Ovens should be construrt- ed of a circular lot m, and not lower from the roof than twenty inches, nor higherB RE ( 75 ) B RE than two'feet. The mouth should not be even an inch wider than is requisite, with an iron door to shut close; one so formed will require less fuel, and retain the heat mucli better than an oven of a longer form and liigher roof, and, conse- quently, will bahe every thing more completely. Tliose families who reside in the country, where wood is mere easily procured, have the advantage over the La)ndon bakers, for although neces- sity has introduced the custqtn of using sea-coal for baking in great cities, ovens wherein wood alone is used, bake to the greatest perfection, and with more purity. Bread.—Put a quartern of flour into a large basin with two teaspoonsful of salt, make a hole in the middle, then put in a basin four table spoonsful of good yeast, stir in it a pint of milk lukewarm, put it in the hole of the flour, stir it Just to make it a thin batter, then strew a little flour over the top, then set it on one side of the fire, and cover it over; let it stand till next morning, then make it into a dough ; add half a pint more of warm milk, knead it for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm place by the fire for one hour and a half, then knead it again, and it is ready either for loaves or bricks; bake them from one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size. Bread (4ro^«^^) Ice.—Grate stale brown bread as fine as possible, soak a small proportion in cream, for two or three hours, sweeten, and ice it. Bread (brmvn) Fudilin/{.— Half a pound of stale brown bread grated, the same of currants, and of shred suet, a little nutmeg and sugar, mix with four eggs a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonsful of cream, boil in a cloth or ba- sin three or four hours. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Cut a penny loaf in thin slices of bread and butter, as for tea, butter a dish, lay slices over it, strew currants on them, then lay the bread and butter, strew cur- rants, and so on till the dish is full. Beat up four eggs with a pint of milk, a little salt, nutmeg and sugar, and pour over the pudding. Lay a pufl-paate round, and bake it; half an hour will be suffi- cient. Bread [coimnon) Ch/ce.—Take the quantity of n quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- rants. Warm the butter in a teacupful of good milk. Bake in acake tin. Bread {Diet) Cake.—Break nine eggs, separate the yolks and whites, take their weight in sifted sugar. Whisk the whites to a firm froth, add the yolks, well beaten, and then whisk them to- gether ; put the sugar and the weight of five eggs of flour and a few carraway seeds. Mix all well together, and bake in a hoop. Bread Cheesecakes.—Slice a large French roll very thin, pour on it some boiling cream; when cold, add six or eight eggs, half a pound of butter melted, some nutmeg, a spoonful of brandy, a little sugar, and half apound of currants. Put them in puflT-paste as other cheese- cakes. Bread, {to serve with Coffee.)*—Whip up the whites often eggs to a thick snow ; add to them the yolks beaten with eight ounces of powder sugar, place it over a charcoal fire, and whip it fo half an. hour, then take it from the fire, and whip again until cold. Mix in eight ounces of sifted flour. Have ready but- tered two moulds lined with paper, pour the paste into them, and bake them in a moderate oven; when done, take them out of the moulds and remove the paper; when cold, cut them in slices about the size of a finger. Place them on a plate of copper, over a charcoal fire, and when one side is brown, turn them and brown the other side. These if kept dry will be good for a long time. Bread {rich) to serve with Coffee.*— Make your paste as above, but when you have mixed in your flour, add to it the rind of two lemons grated; candied lemon and orange peel, of each two ounces chopped; stir them in with a wooden spoon, and finish as above. Bread Crumbs Fried. — Rub bread that has been baked two days, through an iron sieve or cullender; put them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter; place it over a moderate fire, and stir them with a wooden spoon till of a fine gold colour; spread them on a sieve, and let them stand ten minutes to drain, turning them often. Bread, French.~La.y half a bushel of the best Hertfordshire white flour at one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Mix a pint of good small-beer yeast with three quarts of warm water, put it in, and mix it up well till it is tough, put a flannel over it, and let it rise as high as it will; watch- ing carefully that it does not fall. When it IS at its height, take six quarts of skimmed milk, blood-warm, the bluer the better, provided it be sweet, and one pound of salt. Be careful not to put any milk with the yeast at first, for that will prevent the yeast from rising, as any greasy substance will have that efl'ect.( 76 B R E B U E Tlien, instead of working it with the hands, as is done with dougli for English bread, put the ends of your fingers to- gether, and work it over your hands un- til it is quite weak and ropy, and then cover it over with flannel. Put the fire into the oven, and make it very hot, by which time the dough will be ready. Lay the dough on the dresser, and in- stead of a common knife, have one made like a chopping-knife to cut it with. Then make it up into rolls or bricks at pleasure. The bricks (of the common size) will require an hour and a half to bake, the rolls only half an hour. Draw them out, and either rasp them with a rasp, or chip them with a knife. Some persons break in two ounces of butter, when working up with the second liquor. Bread French.*—Take half a bushel (or six pounds) of flour, put it on the slab, make a hole in,the centre, in which put two ounces of yeast; make your dough with warm water, to about the consistence of brioche ; work it up well, adding two ounces of salt, dissolved in a little warm water; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; on tliis part of the operation depends the quality of the bread. Having left the dough one or two hours, (according to the season), knead it again, and leave it as before, for two hours. In the mean while, heat the oven, divide the dough into eight equal parts, of which form as many loaves, into any shape you please; putthem into the oven as quickly as possible. As soon as they are done, rub the crusts with a little butter, which will give it a fine yellow colour. B READ (French), or Rolls.*—Take half a bushel or six pounds of sifted flour, knead it into dough, with two quarts of milk, three quarters of a pound of warm butter, half a pound of yeast, and two ounces of salt; when the whole is well worked up, cover, and leave it to rise. In two hours time, form it into rolls, and lay them on tinned plates. Place them in a slow oven. When they have been in an hour, put them into a very hot oven for twenty minutes. Rasp them as soon as they are baked. Bread Fritters.*—Boil half a pint of milk till reduced to half, with a little sugar, salt, half a spoonful of orange- flower water, and a little lemon-peel shred fine; have ready some pieces of crumb of bread, cut about the size of half-crowns, but thicker: put them into the milk to soak a little, then drain, flour, and fry them. Glaze them with sugar, and pass the salamander over them. Bread, Gafeat<a’.*—Grate the crumb ofa fresh loaf, throw itinto boilingcream, keep stirring it over the fire, and let it boil some time longer; then add to it a bit of butter, some sugar and lemon- eel, and currants, if you think proper; utter a stewpan well, pour the bread, &c. into it, and place it on a stove, with fire on the lid also. When the gateaux is of a nice colour, turn it on a dish and serve it. Bread, d laGreeque.*—Putsix pounds of sifted flour into a large pan, set it in the oven for about an hour, that it may be tolerably warm, then mix with it three ounces of yeast, two ounces of salt, and a sufficient quantity of milk and water to make it into dough (not too stiff). Having kneaded it well, cover, and set it on the oven or in a stove; after it has stood three hours, divide it into eight parts, put them into as many but- tered tins, place them immediately into a very hot oven, and when nearly done, take them out of the tins and place them on tin plates for a few minutes to colour the crust. Wrap them in flannel. Bread, London.—To make London bread, put a b\ishel of good flour which has been ground a month or six weeks, in one end of the trough, and make a hole in the middle of it. Take nine quarts of warm water, and mix it with one quart of good yeast; put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands ; let it re- main until it rises as high as it will go, which will take about an hour and a quarter. Watch it carefully to its ulti- mate height, and do not suffer it to fall; then make up the dough with eight quarts more of rvarm water and one pound of salt; work it well with your hands, and then cover it over with a sack or other coarse cloth. Put the fire into the oven ; heat it thoroughly, and by the time it is hot, the dough will be ready. Next make the dough into loaves, not exceeding four or five pounds each, sweep out the oven clean, and put in the loaves. Shut the oven close, and they will be baked in about two hours ai.<l a half; then open the oven, and draw the breau. In summer the rvater need not be more than blood warm, but in winter it must be a few degrees higher in heat. During a hard frost, however, the water should be as hot as the hand could bear it, though not sufficiently hot to scald the yeast, as that would spoil t'lc whole batch of bread. Other quantities of bread are made in the same proportion. Bread, .l/o/fAerw.*—Take six spoons- ful of flour, three of sugar, half an ounce of green anise, and a little salt; make it( 77 ) B R E B R E into a firm paste, with two eggs, and roll it into pieces about a foot long, and rather more than an inch thick ; lay them on buttered tins, rfwrz and mark them with the point of a knife, and put them into a hot oven ; when done, cut them in pieces for use. Bread Pudding.*—Cut two or three French rolls in slices, and soak them in a pint of cream or good milk ; beat up the yolks of six eggs with them, and add sugar, orange-flower water, three pound- ed macaroons, and a glass of white wine ; tie it up in a basin or buttered cloth, let the water boil when you put in the pud- ding, and boil it for half an hour. Serve with wine sauce. Bread {little) Puddings.—Steep the crumb of a penny loaf, grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat up six eggs and mix with it; add two ounces of warmed butter, sugar, orange- flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-cupful of cream. Beat all well together, and bake in but- tered tea-cups; a quarter of a pound of currants, orange or lemon candied may be added. B READ Sauce.—Cut in slices the crumb of a French roll, to which add a few pep- percorns, one whole onion, a little salt, and boiling milk enough to cover it; let it simmer gently by the side of the fire till the bread has imbibed the whole of the milk; then add a little thick cream, take out the onion, and rub the whole through a sieve; make it very hot, and serve in a sauce-boat, either for game or fowls. Bread Sippets, fried.—Cut a slice cf bread a quarter of an inch thick, cut it into pieces about two inches square, and shape them to your fancy; make some very clean fat, bot in a frying-pan, and fry the bread in it; when of a delicate light brown, take them up with a fish- slice, and drain them, turning them oc- casionally. BREAM, to dress.—After your bream is scaled and drawn, notch the side of it, dipit in melted butter; make a brown sauce with anchovies, capers, cives, and parsley, tossed up in a saucepan with a little butter; then put in a little fish- broth, and thicken it with acullisthat is to he poured on the fish ; but do not put the anchovies in till you are going to serve; when it is hroiled enough, serve it up with the aforesaid sauce. It may also be served with a white sauce. Breasi, to steio.—Scale and well wash the bream, preserve the blood to stew it in, put to it two glasses or more of claret, a little ginger, the pulp of half a pound of prunes boiled, and strained into the stew; salt, vinegar, two anchovies, some roots of horse-radish,stamped and strain- ed, and a small bunch of sweet herbs; let there be no more liquor than willjust cover the fish, and other ingredients; when it is enough, make a sauce with butter, a little of the bream liquor, beat them up together, then dish your fish, pour the sauce upon it. Garnish with lemon and barberries, and serve it up. BRENTFORD Rolls.—Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonsful of yeast, and about a pint of milk; knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire again to rise. When of a proper size, bake them for half an hour. BRETTONNE.*—Take twelve large onions, and cut each of them in half; be particular in taking out the germs; cut them into small pieces, and brown them over the fire ; then put them into a stew- pan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little bay, garlick, thyme, salt, and pepper, and let them cook over hot ashes, put ashes on the cover of your stewpan; when they are sufficiently done, add a little sugar, a little vinegar, and reduce the whole to a glaze with a little love-apple sauce; sprinkle with a little water, and add a large spoonful of blanc, then pass it through a bolting- cUith ; afterwards put it into a stewpan with some more bla7ic. and a quarter of a pound of butter, and let it simmer. Serve with a white harico. BREWING.—Much indifferent beer is made in private families, even where there is no sparing of materials, for the mere want of system and economy in the management. Bi the first place, attention should be paid to the state of the utensils used in the operation, and all necessary prepa- rations made the day before the act of brewing commences; on which day, let the water be heated in the copper that it may be well cleansed ; also cleanse the casks, mash-tub, coolers, &c. When this business is dispatched, fill the cop- per, and prepare all things in readiness for next morning. Ihe allowance of malt for Strong Beer must be ten bushels to the hogshead. For ylle, nine bushels to the hogsliead. The copper for making a hogshead of beer or ale should contain full seventy gallons, because the hogshead of beer measure holds sixty-t/iree gallons, and there should be the surplus measure al- lowed for the hops, and the working them 113{ 73 ) B R E B RE about to advantage when the water boils, to prevent waste. With this copper four boilings will afford two hogsheads of strong beer or table ale, and two of table beer. The malt should be ground four or five days before use,^id be kept very clean. Tlie necessary mgredients being ready, the water must be made to boil rapidly, which done, the copper fire must then be damped. The malt having been pre- viously put into the mashing-tub (re- serving half a bushel) as soon as the steam from the boiling water begins to subside, the water is poured upon it to wet the malt so as to render it of a con- sistence stiff enough to be mashed; it should then remain covered over for a quarter of an hour, when more water is added and it is mashed as before; let it stand fora few minutes, and then add the whole quantity of water, accordingly as it is intended to have the beer more or less strong. Whilst the water is lading on, the mash must be kept stirring with a pole. When well mashed, run the big end af the mash-oar through the middle of it to give it air, then put the spare half bushel of malt upon the mash ; and cover the tub oyer with sacks to keep the steam and spirit of the malt in, and let it remain two hours; then let it run into the receiver, and mash again for the second wort in the same manner as the first, excepting that the water must be cooler, atnd it must not stand more than half the time. Both these worts are now mixed toge- ther, and the quantity of hops determined upon are. added, when the liquor must be put into the copper, which being closely covered, let it boil gently for two hours, then let the liquor into the re- ceiver, and the hops be strained there- from into the coolers. When cool, the barm or yeast, which should be white and sweet, is added, and the liquor well stirred from the bottom with a wooden bowl, turning it up topsy- turvy in the middle of each tub, which occasions the beer to ferment. If, how- ever, it happens that in about two hours the fermentation is not favourable, it has been checked ; in which case, put the mash-oar. &c. across the tubs, and cover them with sacks to encourage the fer- mentation ; when the last thing at night, and the first in the morning should be the stirring them well up again. Be careful that the tnlm he not too full to work over in the night. The next morning, skim the greater part of the yeast off', and prepare to tun it. , Let the casks be taken quite clean and warm into the cellars, which pro- motes the beer’s working. It is recom- mended to fling a gallon or two of boiling water in each, and turn it out again. Examine the cork and vent hole*, and when the casks are filled, reserve some spare beer, that as it works in the casks you may fill them up in the cellars for the waste. As soon as full, take two pounds of fine wheat flour, and beat it up smooth with some of the new beer in a pail, with a wisp, and divide it between the two casks, keeping it well stirred up near the bottom for a quarter of an hour. The flour thus prepared, gives to beer and ale a fine soft quality, and, while under fermentation, adds to its flavour, its mantling, &c. When this flour is put in the casks, each should be stirred with a long stick for a few minutes; then put the tin scoop into the upper cork-hole for the beer to work through, and attend to it three or four times a day, particularly the last thing at night, and first in the morning ; and when the fermentation is done work- ing, which is usually an operation of three or four days, clean the outsides of the casks, and put in the beer, the hops saved in the pail, equally divided into each, stirring them about, which opera- tion fines all beers, and then bung them tight down with a piece of coarse linen cloth under the bung, if completely done working, but not else. For small, or table beer, there must be a third mashing. Reseiwe a pail-ful! of the strong beer to add to the small. Let the water, already heated ki the cop- per, when within a few minutss of boil- ing, be poured on the malt, keeping it mashed as before; then add the pail of strong, and cover it over with sacks as before mentioned, with the mash oar standing in the middle, and let it remain an hour. Then fill the copper with the liquor, and let it boil very gently for an hour. The same preparation of fl.our and beer, should in the like proportion be added to the table beer. For good substantial strong beer or ale. and of fine flavour, there should be al- lowed one pound of hops for every bushel of malt. Hops that .are good, and entirely free from .adulteration, should be of a fine, sweet smell, full of ripe seed, of a clear pale yellow colour, and clammy, which evinces their strength ; such an article ameliorates and preserves ail beers. The best bops arc those produced in Kent. The great secret of fining all beers, to render them of a clear brilluant colour, is to take out three quarters of a p.ailful of the hops from the copper, when they have boiled an hour; for this simpleB R E (7! method is superior, and more congenial to beer than all the arts that are prac- tised. . If, however, beers remain stubborn, eitlier from bad cellars or weak hops, or from ill-managemeBt, then, in order to make beer or ale transparent and fine, isinglass may be used, which may be thus prepared ; if for fining a hogshead, take a quarter of a pound of isinglass, and put it into a quart of the liquor drawn from the cask, and let them gently simmer over a slow fire for half au hour, in a clean vessel. Pour this into a can of the beer, and put it into the cask, stirring it with a long stick for a quarter of an hour, and six hours after bung the cask close again. _ It is a bad practice to put raw hops into beer, as tliey are apt to become musty. Beers are; not unfrequently sick and out of condition; when this happens, they should again be put into anew fer- mentation: and then balls made of a pound of fine wheat flour, mixed vvith a sufficient quantity of treacle, will pro- mote their briskness. This composition softens all beers to the greatest advan- tage. Burton Ale.—For making of Bur- toii, or rich fVelsh Ales. In lieu of boil- ing the wort two hours, let it boil only one hour, but without ceasing for the whole time. Have ready six pounds of treacle, which must be thrown into the copper ; this adds to the strength of the malt, and gives great richness to the flavour of the ale. The liquor must be kept well stirred up the whole time, and particularly from the bottom: but as this is not brewed for keeping, three quarters of a pound of hops to every bushel of malt will be sufficient. Before it is tapped (which may be done in three or four months), fine it as before described with the hops, when it will be found to possess that rich, full flavour for which Burton and Welsh ales are so much esteemed. This has frequently been brewed in the early part of March, and drank in perfection at the latterend of the June following. Indeed, all well brewed ales and table beer, at three and four months old, are ripe and good. Edinburgh Oat Ales.— Should be made from the best white, heavy, sweet oat, made into malt the same as barley is. The Scotch oats are prelerrcd, and the ale made thereof, is said to be of a fine soft healing quality, and is of great repute, particularly in England, where it is not common. Though th'3 ale requires a greater quantity of malt, it is brewed at a less ) B RE price than others, as ten bushels will make a hogshead of fifty-tour gallons, rich, soft and delicious, as no table beer is taken from it. From four to six months old it will become fit for use, either in bottles or cask. It must be brewed, hopped, &c. in the same man- ner as Welsh ales. Some persons who grow their own oats in England, make this ale, with a part of oat malt, and a part barley malt. Porter.—It is generally held that porter, to be good, imust necessarily be brewed in large quantities; this, how- ever, is a popular error. Excellent por- ter may be brewed in private families, and by proper management, so ordered, that ample time between each brewing may be allowed for it to refine for use. Those families therefore who have con- venient utensils for brewing strong beers and ales, and who are acquainted with the process for making them suc- cessfully, may also add porter to the cellar stock, and thereby supply their tables with that truly English beverage, and regale their friends with a tankard of that cool, refreshing, and wholesome liquor, pure, genuine, and free from those pernicious adulterations which are sometimes practised by the public brewer and too often by the publican, by whose cheating rapacity the health of his cus- tomers is destroyed, and the reputation of the brewer who serves his tap sufters accnidingly. It is well known that the excisemen are instructed to keep a vigi- lant eye upon the breweries, to prevent the use of deleterious drugs, in the com- position of beer, which instructions they more readily obey, as a heavy penalty is attached on detection of such mal-prac- tises ; whilst the publican, who is com- monly the most culpable, for his share in the adulteration of beer, is generally allowed to escape detection. It would be well, therefore, that the publican should be liable to an equal penalty with the brewer, as his risk is less, and his profits certain, a very liberal allowance being granted to all retailers of London porter. The brewing of porter is nearly by the same piocess as the brewing of ale. The mash, however,lmust be made of a fine, high dried, sweet, full malt, (which is cheaper than the pale malt u.'ed for brewing the strong beer and ale); and full, fine, sweet, brown hops. It is not necessary for a porter brewer to give from ten to twenty shillings per hundred weight, for colour or appear- ance in hops, when in actual value and •trengih they may be thirty per cent, in- ferior for his purposes ; such bright andSO) B RE B RE fair hops being only necessary in the brewing of the delicate and superior ales. The hop then selected for the brewing of porter, must he stout, gross, and thick blossomed ; rich in condition, tliough it be dull in colour. A species of hop, admirably well adapt- ed for this purpose,is met with in Kent; it is the produce of the plant Humitlus Germaiiicus. Hops of this description are most proper for the purpose, because time should be given them to mellow ; and the peculiar, soft, full, bitter requi- site, will be secured to them if kept. The necessary bitter cannot be ex- tracted from the new hop. unaccom- panied by harshness and unpleasantness. Good brewers (those who brew onj a large scale) give their hops eight or even twelve months age, and then they work eight or ten pounds of hops per quarter of malt. When the wort and hops are boiling, have ready to put into the copper (for every hogshead) one pound of bruised liquorice root, cut short, a quarter of a pound of Spanish liquorice, and six pounds of coarse brown moist sugar, or the same quantity of treacle, and so in proportion for every cask. Be careful to put in these ingredients when the wort and hops are boiling, and let them gently boil for two hours, keeping the liquor well stirred from the sides and bottom, the whole time : and then strain the hops off', and put it into the coolers the same as the other beers. Put into some of the warm wort, half a pound of moist sugar, boil this in an iron pot till it becomes a black thick liquid, and then add, before it is cold, a pint of the warm porter, with a spoonful of salt of steel, and mix them well together ; this is what the porter brewers call colour, and is in quality between a bitter and sweet, which gives to the liquor that fine mel- low taste and colour usually admired in good porter. Jn six months it will be fit for use, and will have, when drawn, a fine cauliflower head. As no table beer is required from this, eight bushels of malt, and eight pounds of hops will be sufficient. Bnow.v Stout.—To brew brown stout, porter, or strong beer, to go abroad, allow ten bushels to the hogshead, and if intended fwr a hot climate, fourteen pounds of hops, good, strong, perfectly sweet, and full of seed. All malt liquor that is brewed for long voyages at sea, should be perfectly ripe and fine, before it is put on board, and should be sent in the same cask it is tunned in. A thirty-six gallon cask or barrel, is the most convenient size for ship-board. For sea voyages too, in lieu of vent-pegs, vent-nails should be pro- cured from the ironmongers, for they shift up and down of themselves, as the beer requires. After the porter is fined in the manner of the_ other beers, ,with good hops, to make it carry a fine bead, lower the hand in drawing it, some distance from the cock, and let it run down the side of the tankard, leaving lip room on the top. If private families would have good casks, and of an uniform size, none are more durable, perhaps, than the iron- bound rum puncheons, which generally hold about one hundred and twenty gal- lons, which is nearly two hogsheads, beer measure, and may be purchased of any of the great dealers in Jamaica rum, and at a reasonable price. These with care, and particularly if painted in oil colours, will last many years. If new casks be purchased, those of the bell shape are preferred. All new casks must be filled with fresh cold water, and left to stand three or four days, and then well scalded before beer is put into them. In cleaning casks, they must be washed with cold water: and nothing is more efficacious and searching, in getting the dirt out of all coolers, casks, &c. than a lump of unslacked lime flung into the water; when well soaked, they must be carefully scrubbed and cleaned with a birch broom. If the casks should happen to become musty, employ a cooper to unhead them and burn them out. As soon as a cask becomes empty, take care to stop up the bung, and vent, and cork-hole tight, which will be the means of keeping them sweet. The cocks should be taken from empty casks, and immediately clean scalded with boiling water, and put away in a dry place. The following suggestions and notices cannot fail to be useful: Hops of every quality should be kept in a dry chamber. The hops that are intended to be used when brewing, should be wetted thus ; let the tub stand under the cock of the copper, which, half turned, enables you to moisten them gradually. Theyshould be rubbed between the hands to sepa- rate them, and break the lumps. To cleanse musty casks, dissolve a pound of bay salt, and half a pound of alum in water, then .add ns much dung from a milking cow as will render k thick, but not more so than will allow it to pass through a funnel; place it on a fire, and stir it with a stick until itB RE ( 81 ) B R E nearly Loils, tlien put it into the cask; bung it close, sliake it about for a few minutes, and let it remain two hours— then take out the bnng, and let the va- pour escape; fasten it down again, give It another shaking, and let it remain two hours more. After this, cleanse the cask thoroughly with cold water,not ceasing until it comes out perfectly clean and untainted. This done, have ready a liquo.’’, made with half a pound ef bay salt, and two ounces of alum boiled in water; wash the cask well with this, and cleanse the cask as before with water, after which the cask will be fit for use. The Cellar.—A good brewer, cellar- man, &c. will take delight in the well- ordering of the cellar. Attention must be paid to cleanliness both in his person and business ; every thing in the cellar consequently should be kept in due order. The brewer, or cellar-man to the nobleman, or gentleman, who maintains a large establishment, should occupy himself every morning in the cellars. The following duties are incumbent— During the summer months, have the beer cellars and stairs clean washed weekly, and particularly under the casks. Empty the tap-tubs daily, into a cask kept for the purpose of containing the slops and grounds; for the cellars, on opening, should always smell pure and sweet. By attention to these offices, the cellars are not only pleasant to enter, but the beer is kept fine and cool during the hot tnonths; whereas, by inattention to cleanliness, a filthy cellar will cause the beer to turn sour. During the winter months, scraping and sweeping out the cellars once a week will be sufficient. Observe, alt cellars, in the winter, cannot be kept too close and warm, for without great atten- tion on this point, the liquors cannot thrive. The following necessaries should be provided for cellars to large establish- ments. Those families who brew on a smaller scale, will apply their uses, according to their proportionate con- venience. Suitable shot, and lead canister, with holes in bottom, and two eloths to wash bottles, to be kept in the bottle rack. Two suitable tubs for washing bottles only, with a form to stand on. strain cocks, bungs, corks, vent pegs, and a mallet. A pair of pliers, to draw pegs, and cork drawer. A leather boot to buckle on the knee, to contain the bottles when corking them, for if the bottle breaks the boot saves the liquor. A strong, heavy, mahogany cork driver. Six strong prickles to be kept in a dry place. Coarse linen to put under the bungs; the old hoj) sacks will serve. Si.x tin spouts, the size of a beer cock, made at the lower end as broad as a banker’s shovel at the bottom, for the beer to work through, from the top cork hole, with brown paper round the top. A strong iron skewer to raise bungs with. A middle sized cooper’s gimblet, the size of the small spigots and faucets. A quire of strong brown paper to put round cocks, and another quire to make hop bags with. Two large strong sponges to clean the outsides of the casks, &c- A pair of slings to grapple the casks with, to take into the cellars, for rolling them will cause dirt to hang about them, &c. A pair of strong folding steps. Half a dozen mahogany spigots and faucets, about the size of the little finger, to be had of the best turners, (being much superior to pegs, which are wasteful), to try all liquors if they are fine, &c. A strong hammer and iron driver, such as the coopers use, to drive down the hoops with, which have loosened from tubs, casks, &c. Two split sticks, for cellar candlesticks. Six iron-bound tap tubs, and brush to clean them with. A whislf, for the yeast, wine finings, &c. A six gallon tub for the yeast, and pour the beer from it daily, then whisk the yeast up in the tub, and it will be fit for use. Delph labels_ to hang on the fops of all the liquor bins, as claret, champaign, sherry, calcavella, porter, cider, perry, port, rhenish, &c. A pewter crane, and vatench. Four, or six ice pails, for wines, &c. in summer. A wine basket, made, to hold the bottles that are crust- ed on their sides, to bring from the cellar in that position. A raising jack, to raise wine in casks upon their stands. A pulley and ropes to let wine and liquor down into the cellars. A wine bit of various sizes, to bore the casks with. A flogger to beat up the wine bungs with. Two strong iron-bound pails. A Gun- ter’s guagerule. A stamped bushel mea- sure, to measure the malt, with a strike. A small cooper’s adze. A pair of stil- yards to weigh the hops, or scales, with stamped lead or iron weights, to be kept dry. Two tin funnels, to put in spare bottles when bottling off". A large wood ditto, for all beers. Two low stools to sit on. A leather apron, with a pocket before, for pegs, See., and bib to button up on the waistcoat. A flannel bag, with hoop on top, made as a jelly bag, to run the lees of all wine through. A common cork screw. An iron-bound wine can,B R E B R I 82 for fininpr wines in. A hoc, a spade, six good stiff bircli brooms, and the same number of strong rag mops. The use of the iron skewer is to raise up the bung by degrees, first giving it vent, for drawing it up witli the hands is a dangerous operation. Have a large cupboard made and fixed in the cellar, or near it, in a dry spot, to hold most of the small tools, so that every thing may be at hand when wanted. Such tools as are too large for the cup- board, may be kept in tlie brew-house. Malt.—In choosing the malt, take especial care that it is not peat, or straw- dried ; and procure it of a pale colour, for they are the best of all malts, and more balsamic, also soft and smooth, and highly agreeable to the palate. Every gentleman who studies his own > interest, would do wisely to purchase the malt unground : for in grinding your own malt, you have not only the satis- faction of knowing that it is not adul- terated, but there is another advantage, for of ten bushels of malt in the grain, there will be a saving of nearly two bushels. Malts should not be ground too fine, but on the contrary, broke or made into a kind of coarse meal. Good malt is known by a simple test, namely by chewing it; for if well made, it will be nearly as sweet as sugar, de- lightful to the smell, of a mellow flavour, round body, an,d thin skin. Hops.—When hops are purchased, let them not be loose in the bags, but very tight packed, for that preserves them. Be careful that no soap or grease gets about the tubs or pails, for either will prevent the beer from working, and waste the whole. Never suffer the brewhouse to be used but for the operations belonging to the brewery, nor any of the tubs and pails for other purposes, nor suffer them to be taken from the brewhouse. Take care that tlie liquor-stands be ciuite steady, for if they rock they injure tlie beer. They should be made suffi- ciently stout, and of oak, when they will last for many years. Fine strong beer for bottling, should be six months old. Observe—never bottle in the cellar, cither wine, beer, cider, &c., but on a fine clear day. Let the bottles be well inspected, and use none but the best velvet corks; for to purchase inferior, low priced corks, is mistaken economy, as, besides other bad cflects, they will cause all liquors to taste of them. Boer, cider, and perrv, for home con- sumption, should stand in the bottles six or eighthours before they are corked. Cider and perry should have the corks wired, and packed in a bin with sand; the beer should be well corked, and packed in a bin with dry deal saw-dust. Some beers require to be wired. Bottled beer for sending a voyage, should be drawn in the bottles, and left to stand forty-eight hours to flatten, be- fore it is corked, and then wired with brass wire, cut for the purpose into pro- per lengths. As cool, fine, bottled, transparent table beer is esteemed in the heat of summer, always during that season, have some bottled ofl‘, and packed in dry deal saw-dust; the old corks will serve. It is best to use two-quart bottles (Scotch pints), and when used at table, pour it gently do-wn the side of the glass, or decant it oft’in a japan jug, to prevent much froth. It is the custom with the butler or cellarman at great houses, where the family pride themselves on the superior quality of their malt liquors, a fort- night before ale, strong, or table beer is used at the master’s dinner table, to peg a cask, or two, of each, in order to select those of the best quality and flavour (for every cask is apt to difl'er, from some hidden cause, though brewed alike;) and two or three days before it is wanted, let it be tapped, and draw oft a quart, or two, of each, which will greatly help to fine it; make use of strainer cocks, and keep the vent pegs tightin. In the summer months, however, they may be eased, particularly if the beer frets; and never neglect to have a tap-tub under each cock. By atten- tion to these rules, the butler may se- cure to his master the proud satisfaction, which has long been the boast of one of our oldest peers, in the ele^^ut hos- pitalities of his castle, of giving to his guests, a .sparkling glass of British C/ianipaii'it." BRILL.—Is dressed in the same man- ner as turbots. BRIOCHE.*—Divide half a quartern of flour into three parts, and knead into one of them half an ounce of yeast and a little warm water, wnip it in a cloth and set it by, in summer time for a quarter of an hour, and in winter for a whole hour. When it has risen, put it to the remainder of the flour, with a pound and a half of butter, ten eggs, half a gl.ass of water, and nearly an ounce ot salt; knead them together with your hand thorough- ly, and then wrap it in a clean cloth, and leave it nine or ten hours. Cut this paste into the size you wish to h.ave your cakes, moisten, and roll them in yourB R O (83 B R 0 hand, flatten the top, and gild them with the yolk of an egg. Half an hour will be sufficient to bake the sinallones; large cakes will require an hour and a half. Brioche Priiters.*—Cut some small brioche cakes in halves, take out the middle, and put in some kind of sweet- meat, or made cream; put the two halves of each together, so that they may ap- pear whole ; dip them in a paste made of flour, a little oil, salt and white wine, fry them of a gold colour, and glaze them with sugar, pass a salamander over. Brioche Fr/fto-s.*—Cut your brioche paste into slices of whatever thickness you may think proper, soak them in milk, sugar, and orange-flower water; then let them drain ; dip in batter, or flour alone, and fry them. Brioche au Fromage.—^When you make the brioche, cut some Swiss cheese into dice, and throw them into the paste while it is liquid, and bake as before. Brocoli.— Strip oft' all the little branches till you come to the top one, then with a knife peel away the hard outside skin from the stalks, and throw them into water. Have ready a stcwpan of water, throw in a little salt, and when it boils put in the brocoli. When the stalks are tender it is done. Put a piece of toasted bread in a dish, lay the brocoli on it. Serve with melted butter. Another way.—Prepare them as above, and stew till tender, with pepperand salt. Brocoli and Eggs.—Boil brocoli as usual, reserve a large bunch for the mid- dle. Toast 3 piece of bread and lay it on a dish; beat up as many eggs as you think proper, put them in a saucepan with a piece of butter and a little salt. Keep beating them with a spoon tiil thick enough, and then pour them on the toast. Set the large bunch of brocoli in the mid- dle, and the other pieces round it. Gar- nish the dish with sprigs of brocoli. Brocoli may be dressed exactly the fame as raulifloivers. BROILING.*—The amateur of a broil, who would secure a chop or steak, cooked to perfection, is recommended to bend his way to the neighbourhood ol l,ondun’s Royal Exchange, where the art and mystery of that summary pro- cess of savoury cookery, has longattaincd the ultimatum of excellence. '1 here the fire burns with never ceasing brightness, the gridiron has not time to cool, and the impatient coinmercialist, to whom time is property, is never doomed to wait. Certain it .is, that a chop or steak is not often eaten in perfection, at the table ol a private family, though, there is tio sufficient reason why it should be so j for, as in boiling, so in broiling, the difficul- ties of the art vanish, where attention is not wanting. The process is more sim- ple than that of any other method of dressing meat, the operation is quick, and the object under the hand and eye of the cook, from the moment of its being put upon the gridiron, to that of its comple- tion. Tlie cook must prepare her fire for the operation in due time; when ready, it should be clear and bright—so free from black coal or smoke, that the chop or steak may come from the gridion with- out blemish or taintofsulphurorsmoke. I'he best fuel for a broil is composed of charcoal and coke, as little smoke is emitted from either, even on commenc- ing the fire ; and w’hen well ignited, it is entirely free from it. Coke, added to a brisk coal fire, also burns bright, and ia well suited for the operation; though with care, a proper fire may be made of good sea-coal. Certain unqualified declaimers upon a broil, hold various opinions, touching the proper thickness of a steak; though at the most celebrated chop-houses, the cooks, unless expressly desired other- wise, confine the cut to somewhat more than half, yet less than the thickness of three-quarters of an inch. This adjust- ment of the proportion of the stratum of the delicious rump, is moreover accord- ing to the statute Jaw ol the thriceiearn- ed conclave, the Beef Steak Club; amongst whose members, from the epoch ol its original founder, George Lambert, and his distinguished convives, to the present day, may be numbered the most accomplished gourmands oi this renown- ed land of good cheer. *** The choicest steak, moreover, be it hereby known, on the authority of one of the best informed butchers in this great metropolis, who served the Beef Steak Club', the last season, is cut from the rump of a prime Norfolk-fed Scot I There is this, amongst other disadvan- tages, in cutting too thick a steak, the outside is likely to be scorched to h u-ny hardness, before the interior is half cook- ed ; hence, to say nothing of the misery ol those who have not the advantage of capacious mouths, the disappointed epi- cure must either wait until it is put again upon the gridiron, or instead of eating it rare, be constrained to eat it row. No gridiron should be used, but those with llitted bars, which forming channels, the greater part of the fat, which other- wise falls into the fire and scorches the steak, is drawn oft' into a gutter at the bottom. The gridiron should be thoroughly heated, and the bais rtibbed with beef or mutton suet, previously toB RO B RO ( 84 ) putting on the steak, to prevent its being marked by, or adliering to, tiie bars. A vigilant eye should be kept upon the steak, to watch tlie moment lor turning it, which is repeatedly done, during the process. Broiling-tongs of convenient size should be used, with which, by a little practice, the steak may be turned with ease and despatch. The cook must have her dish thorough- ly heated, to receive the broil when done, and the cover hot, to place upon it in- stantly. Even when she has accomplish- ed her task, if the servant who is to take it to table, loiters on the way, the steak will have lost its zest. A steak or chop, then, shouldbe brisk- ly cooked, speedily conveyed to table, and served with dispatch. It may lie made either a delectable treat to the ac- complished amateur of good eating, or a dish scarcely endurable to the, voracious appetite of a famished hunter. BRONDADE.—Take a piece of fine ■stock fish, let it soak for four and twenty hours in water to cleanse and soften ; tlien put it in a pot full of water on the fire, taking care to remove it when it begins to boil I melt some butter over a gentle fire, with some garlic, oil, and parsley. In the mean time, pick and cut the stock fish into small pieces, put it into the saucepan, and .as it thickens, pour in a little butter or milk. Keep stirring un- til the fish is melted to a sort of cream. Pounded spinage may be used to make it green. BROOM Buds, to Pickle.—Gather the buds befoi-e they grow yellow on the top, mix salt and water until completely melted, then put in the buds ; stir them every day until they sink to the bottom, and then keep tliem closely covered. BROSE, (ScofcA).—Tins is generally made of the liquor meat has been boiled in ; of which put as much in a porringer as will mix half a pint of oatmeal into the consistence of hasty pudding, or a little thicker. Lastly, take a little of the fat that swims on the broth, and put it on the crowdie, and eat it like hasty-pud- ding. BROTH.—Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover it close with a di.-ih or coarse paste. Put a suflicient quantity of water to cover the meat, and bake it till tender. When cold, let it stand in a cool place, covered close; flavour it as you please. Booth, Put.—Boil part of a round and leg ol beef with other meat, and take out the gravy and broth, and strahi it through a napkin ; tlicn boil them a second time, and take out the broth again ; keeping both these sorts apart. The first will be good to put to capons, turkey-poults, veal, and other forced meats, to be served in white soups. Capon or veal broth ought to be used to soak young pigeons for bisque; and with the broth of the bisques, a cujlis may be made for soup d la rcine, or d la royule. The broth of farced meats will serve to make a cullis for the same sorts of meat; as young turkics, and pullets, knuckles of veal, and other sorts of meats, that ought to be farced and parboiled. The second sort of broth, is to be put into brown soups, of ducks, teal, rabbits, wood-pigeons, pheasants, &c. orol vege- tables, roots, &c.; and the brown ingre- dients which serve to thicken them, are to be mixed with the same broth. Broth, Fish.—Take tench, carp, pike and eels, prepare them for boiling, cut them in pieces, and put them into a kettle with water, salt, butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a buncli of sweet herbs. Let it boil an hour and a half, then strain it through a napkin, and divide it into three lesser kettles. Into one of them put mushrooms, and strain them through a sieve, with a cullis, a sliced lemon, and some fried wheaten flour. Broth, EVj/i.—Set water over the fire in a kettle proportioned to the quantity of broth to be made ; put in the roots of parsley, parsnips, and whole onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley and sorrel, and butter ; let the whole be well seasoned; then pul in the bones and carcasses of the fish, the flesh of which you have used for farces; and also the tri pes of them, being tlioroughly cleansed, with some tails of cray-fish, pounded in a mortar, and four or five spoonsful of the juice of onions. Let these all be well seasoned and boiled, then strained through a sieve; put it back into the I : kettle, and keep it hot, to simmer your soups, to boil your fish, and other things. t B ROTH, Fish.—Cut onions, carrots and par.snips, into slices, then put them into ; a stewpan with a piece of butter, and set them stewing with Juice of onions. When these .are brown, put them into [■ the stew-pan, and give them two or three turns; let the whole be moistened with a clear purie; then put in a bunch of parsley, cives, sweet herbs, cloves, and j some mushrooms. I.et all these Iwil to- gether for one hour; then strain them ihrongh a sieve into another kettle, and use it to simmer fish-soup. Note, that cSirp is the best fish to make fish-broth. Broth. .Idly.—Take a Joint of mutton. .a capon, a fillet of veal, and three quarts ■ of water; put the.se into an earthen pan,BUL ( 8d ) B RU I and boil them over a gentle fire till re- duced to half; then squeeze all together, Band strain the liquor through a napkin. Broth, Mettgre, for Soup with Herbs. —Set on a kettle of water, put in two or I three crusts of bread, and alt sorts of k good herbs; season with salt; put in j butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; boil it for an hour and a half: then strain it through a sieve, or napkin. Tins will serve to make lettuce soup, asparagus soup, soup de sante, See. with herbs. Broth of Roots.— Take a quart of pease, boil them till tender; bruise them to a mash, put them into a boiling vessel that will hold four gallons of water; hang it over the fire for an hour and a half; then take it off, and let it settle; then take a lesser kettle, and strain the clear j9Kree into it, through a sieve; then put into it a bunch of carrots, half a bunch of parsnips, and a bunch of pars- ley-roots, and six onions, a bunch of pot- herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and season it with salt. Boil all these to- gether; then add a bunch of chervil, another of sorrel, and two spoonsful of the juice of onions. This broth is of use to simmer all sorts of soups made of vegetables. Broth, fVhite.—Boila fowl, and when it is enough, take it up, and put it into a dish ; then boil your cream with a blade of mace, and thicken it with eggs; then put in the marrow of one beef bone, and take some of the broth, and mingle them together; put to it a spoonful of white wine, and let it thicken on the fire ; then put the fowl hot out of the broth, set it on a chafing-dish of coals, and serve it. BROWN Colouring for Made Dishes. —Take four ounces of sugar, beat it fine ; put it into an iron frying-pan, or earthen pipkin ; set it over a clear fire, and when the su^r is melted, it will be frothy; put it higher from the fire, until it is a fine brown ; keep it stirring all the time, fill the pan up with red wine ; take care that it does not boil over, add a little salt and lemon ; put a little cloves and mace, a shalot or two, boil it gently for ten mi- nutes ; pour it in a basin till it is cold, then bottle it for use. BRUNOISE.—Cut some carrots, tur- nips, &c. into dice ; if summer time, fry them in butter, if the winter, blanch them ; when fried without having lost their original colour, moisten them with rich broth, seasoned with salt and a little sugar, and let the whole, boil for an hour. Green pease, asparagus tops, &c. may be .added. Skim off the fat, and put in some crusts of bread, cut thin, and saoked previously in broth, and serve. BRUNSWICK Turf.-Pare and core with a scoop, eight or ten golden pippins, put them into a stewpan with a gill of sweet wine and four ounces of sifted loaf sugar, a bit of lemon peel, a little cinna- mon and mace; stew them over a slow fire till the apples are tender; wherj. cold, put them into a very light, or vol- uu-vent paste, and pour round them some good custard. BRUSOLES.—Take some beef steaks, beat them and put them into a stewpaa with thin slices of bacon laid underne.ath ; strew over them chopped chibbnls, par- sley and spices; then another layer of steaks, and strew them over as before ; then cover them all with broad slices of bacon, and cover the stewpan close, and put fire underneath and at top. _Whea they are ready, prepare a cullis with the carcasses of partridges ; then take off all the fat, lay them in a dish, and pour the cullis over them. B UBBLE-AND-SQUEAK.-Sprinkle some slices of cold boiled salted beef, with pepper, fry them with a bit of butler of a light brown. Boil a cabbage, squeeze it quite dry and chop it small; take the beef out of the frying-pan, and lay the cabbage in it, sprinkle a liitle pepper and salt over ; kee^ the pan moving over the fire for a few minutes. Lay the cab- bage in the middle of the dish, and the beef round it. BUCKTHORN {Syrv,p o/).—Gather the berries in the heat of the day, and set in an earthen vessel in the oven; squeeze out the juice, and for each peck of berries put two pounds of Lisbon sugar, and boil them together a quarter of an hour ; let it cool, and then bottle it. Ampler way.—Take three quarts of the juice of clarified buckthorn berries, and four pounds of brown sugar ; make them into a syrup over a gentle fire, and while waim, mix with it a drachm of the distilled oil of cloves, dissolved on a lump of sugar. The true buckthorn may be known by the number of its seeds, having four, the. alder buckthoi n has only two, and the cherry buckthorn one seed. The former is to be used. BULLACE Cheese^with the skins).— Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water. Pour oft some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit, weigh half a pound of sugar._ Set the fruit in a pan over the lire, let it boil quickly, till it begins to look dry; take out the stones, acid the si:gar,6tir it in well and simmer itslowly for two hours; then boil it quickly half an hour. The jam may then be poured into potting-pans. Buclace Cheese {withoiit the skins).—BUS BUN ( 86 ) Bake or boil tlie fruit as above; but, instead of taking out the juice, beat tlie bullaces tlirougli a coarse sieve; tlien l>roceed as before, crack the stones and boil the kernels with the jam. The su- gar must not be added until the juice has evaporated. Bollaces (to preserve). — Prick the fruit, throw them into scalding water for a minute, take them clear from the water, strew over them powdered lump sugar : the next day pour oft' the syrup, boil and skim it, pour it over tlie bullaces, and let U stand a day or two; boil the syrup again, put in the fruit and boil them to- gether (be careful not to mash them), and then put the preserve into jars; when cold, put brandy papers. To a pound of fruitallow halfa pound of sugar. BUNS, Common.—Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ounces of sugar, a few Jamaica peppers, and a few carraway seeds. Put a spoon- ful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste ; set it by the fire to rise. They will bake quickly on tins; you may add nutmeg. Buns (Cross).—To the above mixture put one ounce and a half of ground all- spice, cinnamon and mace, mixed, and v^hen half proved, press the form of a cross with a tin mould in the centre, and finish as above. Buns (Plum).—To two pounds of the plain bun paste, put half a pound of cur- rants, a quarter of a pound of candied orange-peel, cut into small pieces, half a nutmeg grated, half an ounce of mi.xed spice, such as allspice, cinnamon, &c. Mould them into buns, jag them round the edges with a knife, and proceed as above. Buns (Richer).—Put four pounds of fine flour into a wooden bowl; set a sponge of it with agill of yeast and a pint of warm milk; then mix with it one pound of sifted sugar, one pound of oiled fresh butter, coriander seeds, cinnamon, and mace, a small quantity of each, pounded fine. Roll the paste into buns, set them on a baking-plate rubbed with butter, ptit them in a moderate oven to prove; then wash them with a paste- brush dipped in warm milk, and bake of a good colour. Buns (Seed).—Take two pounds of plain bun dough, and mix in one ounce i)f carraway seeds; butter the insides of tart-pans, mould the dough into buns, and put one into each pan ; set them to rise in a warm place, and when sufli- eicntly proved, ice them with the white of an egg beat to a froth, lay some pound- ed sugar over that, and dissolve it with water splashed from the icing-brush. Bake ten minutes. BUNTINGS, Poupefm of.—Having singed, blanched, and trussed the bunt- ings, lard them and fry them; put them into a stewpan with some good gravy or broth, and when tender, add sweet- breads cut in pieces and fried; a few mushrooms and morels, and ten or a do- zen chesnuts blanched, season with salt, pepper, <ind nutmeg. Put into another pan, a quarter of a pound of butter, a liandful of flour, two onions, and a pint of gravy, brown them, and then put in the birds, &c., and stew the whole together some time. Take it oft'and set it to cool; line a saucepan (having battered it well) with thin slices of bacon, cover them with forcemeat, half an inch thick, on this place the buntings, the breast down- wards, with therestof the ragout, taking away the bacon and onion, and squeeze the juice of a lemon; cover the whole with a layer, an inch thick, of forcemeat, press it close and smooth it with a knife, brush it over wi th egg,strew bread-crumbs over, and bake it an hour. When wanted foi- table, loosen it from the saucepan with a knife, and turn it on a dish. Squeeze the juice of an orange on it, and serve. BURNET VINEGAR.-Fill a wide- mouthed bottle with fresh green burnet leaves, cover them with vinegar aad let them stand for ten days. To make it very strong, strain the liquor, put it on fresh leaves to steep fourteen days longer. BUSTARDS, to boil.—Take off the skin, but leave the rump and legs whole, with the pinions, then mince the flesh raw, with beef suet, season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and sweet herbs, shred small, and mix all together with the yolks of raw eggs, the bottoms of boiled artichokes, roasted chesnuts. blanched marrow, and boiled skirreis, cut small j then fill their skins with this/arcc. and prick them upon the back ; put them into a deep dish, with strong broth, white wine, large mace, artichokes boiled and quartered, marrow, salt, barberries, grapes, and some of the meat made up into balls; cover your dish, let them stew, and when they are enough, serve them upon sippets, broth them, and gar- nish with slices of lemon, run it over with beaten butter, and garnish the dish with chesnuts, mace, and yolks of eggs. BusTARn Pie.—Bone your bustard, parboil, and lard it, season tvitb salt, pepper, and nutmeg, lay butter in the bottom of the pie, add a few beaten cloves, then lay in the fowl, strew mote seasoning over it, lay on a suflicient quantity of butter, close it up, bake it.BUT ( 87 ) BUT and when cold, fill it np with clarified butter. BUTTER.—The milk intended for butter should stand for twenty-four hours in the summer, and double that time in the winter season; skim the milk before the sun has warmed the dairy, as it should be kept during the whole of the operation as cool as possible. If the churn can be placed in a tub of water it will give consistence to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter- milk, put the butter into a clean pan, pour water on it, and let it become firm before you work it; change the water, and beat it well with fiat boards, chang- ing the water frequently. When the taste of the butter-milk is quite gone, and the water quite clean, work a little salt into it, weigh and make it up into the proper forms, and put them in cold wa- ter into an earthenware pan with a cover. If not convenient to churn daily, the cream should be put into very clean pans until the next churning. Butter, how- ever, ought to be made twice a week, at least; in hot weather it requires much more working than in cold, and not the slightest flavour of the butter-milk should be suffered to i-eraain. Persons who have not naturally a cool hand, should never attempt to make butter. In winter, when the cows feed on tur- nips, the butter has an unpleasant fla- vour, to prevent which, when the milk is brought into the dairy, put a quart of boiling water to every two gallons of milk, and let it stand as usual for cream. A quarter of a pint of warm spring water, in which nitre has been dissolved, put to ten or twelve of new milk, will also counteract the above flavour. Butteb —Make a paste as for sweet biscuits, and when you have put in the flour, pour over it eight ounces of melted butter, after it has cooled a little; mix them together a short time with a wooden spoon, and put it into buttered moulds, which must only be filled three parts, as the paste puff's up considerably, and would rise from the moulds, without care. 'Rvitev. {Black) *—Put half a pound of butter in a saucepan on the side of your stove, so that it may just heat suf- ficiently to colour itj do not skim it. Into a large glass of vinegar put all sorts of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, salt, pepper, and a sliced shalot, reduce this over the fire to one-fourth of the quan- tity, add it to the coloured butter, rack the whole oft’clear, and pass it through a fine sieve. Use as wanted. Butter (BtocAr).*—Fry apiece of but- ter in a frying-pan until it is quite black. taking care not to burn it; skim and pour it over wiiatever you wish to serve it with; put your frying-pan again on the fire, and put a little vinegar into it with a little salt; when it boils, pour it over the butter* Butter {Black).—Three pounds of fruit, currants, gooseberries, raspberries, and cherries, to a pound of coarse sugar, boiled till quite thick. It must waste to half the quantity. Bdtter, Borders of.* — Take some Montpelier butter (either green or red) and spread it equally over two saucepan- lids, laying it about three-eighths of an inch in thickness; place the lids on pounded ice, and when the butter is con- gealed remove it with the blade of a knife, and lay it on a napkin ; then, with a tin paste-cutter, or stamp of whatever figure you niay choose, cut the butter, and place them in borders according to your fancy. Take care to dip your stamp in cold water frequently, as that will enable you to keep the edges of the but- ter sharp. Butter {Borders, Common).*—If you have no Montpelier butter, take a quar- ter of a pound of fresh butter, work it up well with a knife, mixing with it either of the following colouring materials ;— for Rose-colour, a little infusion of car- mine,_or any vegetable red; Green, spi- nach juice; Yellow, an infusion of saf- fron ; Fiiofef, a little Prussian blue added to the red; Orange, the red and yellow joined_together; the remainder of the operation is performed as above. Butter {Burnt, Sauce).—Fry some butter ; when it begins to smoke, throw into it some chopped parsley ; when suf- ficiently done, add pepper, salt, and vinegar. Butter, Burnt, for Sauce.—Put some butter over the fire in a saucepan, and let it boil tin it is as brown as you wish ; then shake in flour, stirring it all the while; then use it for any sauce that is too thin. Butter Cakes.—Beat a dish of butter with your hands to a cream, add two pounds of sifted sugar, three pounds of dried flour, and twenty-four eggs, leave out half the whites, and then beat all together for an hour; when you are going to put it in the oven add a quarter of au ounce of mace and a nutmeg, a little sack and brandy, seeds anil cur- rants, if yon think proper. Butter {to clarifij).—Scrape off tiie outside of the butter you may require, and then put it into a stewpan by the side of a slow fire, wheredt must remain till the scum rises to tne top and the milk settles at tlie bottom; carefully witliCAB BUT (88 a spoon take oil'the scum. When clear, it is lit for use. Butter Layopen three clean coarse cloths, one over the otlierj put a pint of thick cream in the upper one, tie it up in them as close and tight as possible. Bury it in the earth in a dry place, eighteen inches deep, for tiventy-four hours. Tlie next morning put the cream into a cool earthen pan, and stir it up with a wooden spoon, for five minutes in the summer, and a quar- ter of an hour in the winter, when you will have a lump of cool, fresh, and most delicious butter, for the breakfast table. V Butter Drops.—Take three eggs, leave out half the whites, half a pound of flour, half a poujid of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two spoonsful of rose-water, a little mace and seeds. Butter (Fair;/).—Beat the yolks of two hard eggs in a mortar, with a large spoonful of orange-flower water, and two spoonsful of fine sugar ; beat all to a fine paste, add an equal quantity of butter, fresh from the churn, and force all to- gether through a fine strainer, full of little holes, into a plate. Buttered Loaves.—Beat up the yolks of a dozen eggs, with half of the whites, and half a pint of yeast; strain them into a dish, season with salt, and a little powdered ginger, then make it into a high paste with flour ; lay it in a warm cloth for a quarter of an hour; then make it up into little loaves, and bake them, melt a pound and a half of butter, with a quarter of a pint of white wine, and half a pound of sugar, and liquor them with it. Butter de Montpellier.* — Put the yolks of twelve hard eggs into a mortar, with a green ruvigoie scalded, (see Ravi- gote), six anchovies, a handful of capers picked and washed, six pickled cucum- bers, some salt and pepper ; pound all these well together, until they form a paste; then add the yolks of two raw eggs, bruising them with the pestle, and then gradually pour upon, and mix with your ingredients, a pound and a half of oil of olives, and a little vineg.'tr, until the whole becomes of the consistence of new butter, then pass it through a sieve; if your butter is not sufficiently green, you must add a little spinach juice. Butter de Montpellier is commonly used for cold entries : and a little ga. lie may be added, according to taste. BvTTf.v. {Preserved), for H'ii '■ )■ Use. Take two parts of the best unmon salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, -d one part saltpetre; beat them well twether. To sixteen ounces of butter, tho 'ughly cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of the above composition ; work it well, and put it into pots, when quite firm and cold. Buiter ( Proveni;ale), Sauce.*—Pound a few cloves of garlic, pass them through a double-hair sieve into an earthenware pan ; pour some good olive-oil; stir them together, until they form a lump like butter. Salt it to your taste. Butter {to roust).—htiy a pound of butter in salt and water for two or three hours; put it on a spit, and rub it all over with crumbs of bread, mixed with grated nutmeg ; put it to the lire, and as it roasts, ba-ste it with the yolks of tw’o eggs, and crumbs of bread ; stew a pint of oysters in their own liquor, and when the bread has completely imbibed all the gravy, brown it, and lay it in a dish, with the stewed oysters under it. Butter Sauce.—Put nearly half a pound of good fresh butter into a sauce- pan, with a quart of sauce tournee, pro- perly reduced ; stir till they are well mixed together. Butter {Thickened).* — Melt what quantity of butter you may require ; be careful not to colour it; beat up the yolks of eggs, and then pour them to the butter, beating them all the while. Put them on the lire; add a little lemon- juice. Butter and Sweet Herbs.* — Take some chervil, half the quantity of pim- pernel, chives, tarragon, and cress ; scald and chop the whole very small, then mix it with some good fresh butter. C CABBAGES d VAllemande. — Take some very small headed cabbages, and, after blanching, cut them up rathersmall, and turn them a few times over the fire in a stewpan, with a sufficient quantity of melted butter or lard; when nearly done, moisten with a little gravy or jelly-broth, and serve with bacon or sau- sages. Cabbage and Bacon.*—Blanch a cab- bage, cut it in quarters. and put it into a stewpan, with a piece of streaked bacon; season it, moisten with water, and give it a boil, then let it stew over a moderate tire ; when done, dress the cabbage on a dish, with the Iwiccn over it; reduce the liquor, and add to it a little butter, worked «ith some flnur, and then serve it over the bacon .and cab- bage. Cabbage {to (o>7).—Haying cut your cabbage into quarters, boil it in plenty of water, with a handful of salt. When it is tender, drain it on a sieve, but never) ; j a 9 !i f 3 3 a I i CAB (89) CAB press it. Savoys and greens are boiled in the same manner; but they should al- 3vays be boiled by themselves. You may, if you please, chop it, and heat it with a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. C.1BB.4GE8 {Boiled and Steioed).—Cs\i- bage.s are generally simply tied round, and boiled. If you wish to stew them, cut a cabbage into four; boil it a quarter of an hour, with a piece of streaked bacon, cut into bits, and the rind on. After- wards change it in cold water; squeeze it well, and tie each quarter, that it may keep its form. Then stew it with some stock, salt, and pepper, a bunch of pars- ley and green onions, cloves, a little nut- meg, two or three roots, and the meat you intend to serve with it; when both the meat and cabbage are done, wipe off’ the grease, and dish it for table, the streaked bacon on it, and serve with a sauce of good cullis, agreeably seasoned. The ditferent parts of meat that cabbages are best boiled with are, veal tendons, breast of beef, a bit of round of beef, pork chitterlin^, a shoulder of mutton, boned and tied into a round, or a trussed capon. Whatever meat the cabbage is stewed with, should be previously boiled a few minutes in water, to take off the scum. Cabbage a la Bourgeoise.*—Take a whole cabbage, boil it during a quarter of an hour, and then shift it into cold water; squeeze it, taking care not to break the leaves, which you must take off' one by one, spreading over each a little force-meat, made like that for stuffed duck. Put the leaves again one over the other, that they may appear as if the cabbage was entire; secure them thus with pack-thread, and stew them d la braise in the same manner as neat’s tongue, seasoning to your taste. When the cabbage is done, press it lightly in a linen cloth, to take off the fat; cut it in two, and pul it on a dish, pouring over it a good cullis. Cabbage d la Bourgeoise.—Take out the heart of some large cabbages, parboil them, and then stun the centre of the cabbage, between each leaf, with the following stuffing : mince the white part of the poultry, or game with some bacon and veal; if you have no poultry, the veal is sufficient; thicken v/ith the yoiks of some eggs ; tie up the cabbage that r«ne of the stuffing may fall out, and boil it in some stock, with the saucepan- lid on. Cabbage d la Creme.*—Wash your c.'ibbage very clean; boil it in water, with ?. little salt, then leave it to drain and cool; afterwards cut it in middling sized pieces, and brown them in butter, adding salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg , moisten with cream, then reduce it over a gentle fire, till it becomes of a very thick consistence. , , Cabbage d la CrSmc.—Wash and boil the cabbage in water with a handful _ot salt; when soft, take it out, squeeze it, and put it in a stew-pan, with some but- ter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, aiid a spqon- ful of flour, moistening with a little cream. Cabbage Cream. — Put a gallon of milk over the fire, and skim it as long as any froth rises, then empty it into eight or ten bowls, as fast as you can without making it froth; then set them in a place where the wind may blow upon them; when the milk is_ rather cooled, gather off the cream with your hands, crumple it together and lay it on a plate ; when you have laid four or five layings, one upon another, then dip a feather in rose-water and musk, and stroke it over it; then sift some fine sugar and grated nutmegover it, and lay on three or four layers more; then set all the milk on the fire to boil again, and when it rises up, distribute it as you did before in your bowls, and use it in the like manner; this do for four or five times, laying on your cream as before, one upon another, till it is as high and as round as a cabbage. Let one of the bowls stand, because it will be thickest and most crumpled, and lay on that last on the top of all; strew loaf sugar pounded over the whole, and serve. Cabbage d la Flamande.*—Cut a cab- bage into quarters, parboil, and then change it into cold water; squeeze it, take out the heart, and tie it round; then stew it with a piece of butter, some good stock, seven or eight onions, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt and coarse pep- per ; when almost done, put in some vine- gar ; and when the whole is sufficiently cooked, take a crust of bread, rather larger than the palm of your hand, fry it in butter; and put it in the bottom of the dish, upon which place the cabbage and sausages, with the onions round, taking care that the fat be well dried off the whole; then skim the sauce, add a little cullis to it, and serve it, neither too thick, nor too thin, pour over the whole. Cabbages {to Keep).—Small’close cab- bages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch, and be very fine after many weeks keeping Cabbage and Milk Soup.—Boil a large white-hearted cabbage in water; when, half done, put to it a quarter of a pound of butter, seasoning to your taste ; wlicn 1 3 ICAB 90 CAB it is well boiled, takeout three parts of the water, substituting the same quan- tity of boiling milk; pour it into the tureen after it has once boiled up, put- ting the cabbage also into the tureen whole; serve quick. Ckuax(XE(fVhite,Pickled).*—Slice your cabbage thin; then lay it in salt for twenty-four hours; strain it very dry, then put it in a stone ,jar; with allspice, mace and ginger; boil your vinegar, and pour it on boiling hot; tie it very close, repeat the vinegar three times, and it will be fit for use. Cabbage Soup a la Proven<fale.—Boil different sorts of vegetables together, including half a peck of peas, and a cab- bage blanched, cut in quarters, and tied with packthread. Add a wine glass full of the best oil. When the vegetables are boiled, and your broth properly salted, strain it, then leave it on to slew, serving it up, garnished with cabbages. CabeageandCheese Soitp d la Proven- vale,—Cut a large cabbage into quarters, and after blanching,boil it in water; when three parts done add a quarter of a poifnd of butter and the requisite seasoning. Grate half a pound of gruyiire, or par- mesan cheese. Prepare, also, some very thin slices of bread, and, two hours before dinner, make the soup in the fol- lowing manner. Take a metal, or earthenware tureen that will stand the fire, and that can be used at table; first, put into it a layer of grated cheese, then one of cabbage leaves, previously boiled and dried on a cloth; next, some of the slices of bread, then those of cheese, commencing again with the cabbage, &c. alternately, the upper layer of all being of sliced cheese. Having thus filled the tureen within two fingers’ width of the top, pour on its contents about half a pint of the water in which the cabbages (after being blanched) were boiled, making the cabbage broth penetrate to the bottom of the tureen, by piercing its contents in several places with a knife; then place the tureen on a stove of mo- derate heat,_ letting the soup simmer, without stirring, for more than an hour. When the soup is ready for table, the cabbage broth will have been all ab- sorbed; some persons, consequently, add more hot brotn to it at the moment of serving; but the true method of serving it d la Provcngalc, is to send it up dry, using with it, at table, only the finest oil. Cabbage Pudding.—Take two pounds of beef-suet, as mueh of the loan part of a leg of veal; take a little cabbage and scald it, then bruise the suet, vra! ..nd cabbage together in a marble mortar; season them with mace, nutmeg, ginger, a little pepper and salt; some green gooseberries, grapes, or barberries;—in winter, some verjuice; mix then all well together, with the yolks of four or five eggs, well beat; wrap up all together in a green cabbage leaf, tie it in a cloth ; an hour will boil it. Purple Cabhuge to Pickle.—Take two cauliflowers, two red cabbages, half a peck of kidney beans, six sticks with six cloves of garlic on each stick ; wash all well, give them one boil up, then sti-ain them in a sieve, and lay them leaf by leaf upon a large table, and salt them with bay salt; then lay them to dry in the sun, or in a slow oven, until as dry as cork. Cabbage Ragout.*—Take the half of a middling sized cabbage, boil it for half an hour, and then change it in cold water, squeeze it well, and take out the heart; cut the cabbage into small pieces, and put it in a stew-pan with a slice of good butter; turn it a few times over the fire, and shake in some flour ; put in sufficient gravy to give colour to the ra- goftt; let it boil over a slow fire till the cabbage is done, and reduced to a thick sauce; season it with salt, coarse pep- per, and a little grated nutmeg, serve under any meat you think proper. Cabbage Ragodt.—Scald one cabbage cut into quarters, (savoys_ are best); drain the water quite out, tie them with packthread, and braze in a good braze ; serve ndth a fine thick cullis sauce, pretty high of pepper. Cabbage Divide a cabbage in the middle, blanch it in hot water, squeeze it, tie it with packthread, and put it into a stew-pan, and stew it d la braize; when it is stewed, drain it, un- tie it, cut it in little slices into a sauce- pan, .and let it simmer Avith some cullis of veal, and bam ; afterwards put in some cullis of veal and ham to thicken it, and serve it with roasted, boiled, or stewed meat. Cabbage /ferf.*—Boil your cabbage for a short time, then take out the heart, and cut it into pieces ; then put it into a stew-pan wdth a piece of butter, some salt and pepper, and let it stew over a moderate fire, stirring it very frequently whilst dressing, to mix it well with the butter. Cabbages (/(erf).—They are mostly stewed toeatwith ham. bacon, or snicked s.ausagee, though sometimes without any meat ; thev are very strong eating, and should be first .scalded, then stewed with butter, pepper, salt, and cloves : and vinegar adiicd <0 it just before serving: they arc reckoned wholesome in veaiCAB 91 ) CAB br6th for consumptions ; but are most proper for pickling, as gherkins, &c. Cabbage (lied) d la jFYamawrfc.*—Take two red cabbages, cut them in quarters; take out the liearts, and cut them in pieces, blanch them, then put them into cold water, after which put them into a stew-pan with a piece of butter, a bay leaf, an onion stuck with cloves, some salt and pepper; stir them about, so that the cabbage may be well mixed with the butter; place your stew-pan on the fire, put fire upon the lid of the stew-pan; and let it simmer for three or four hours; turn the cabbage frequently, and be careful not to let it burn ; when the cab- bage is done, take out the bay leaf and the onion ; add a little more butter ; and serve hot. Cabbage {Red) Pickled.*—Take about a quarter of an ounce of cochineal, and put into a little bag, and boil it with as much vinegar as you think sufficient for the cabbage, with a little salt and bay salt; _ when it boils, scald the cabbage with it, then boil it up again, and put a little ginger and pepper into it; then put it in something to cool; when cold, put the cabbage into jars, and put the pickle upon it, and tie it down. Cabbage (iJerf) Stetved.—Slice a small, or half a large, red cabbage ; wash, and put it into a saucepan, with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, and a piece of butter. Stew till quite tender; and when going to serve, add two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and give one boil over the fire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Cabbage {Red) Stewed.—Shred the cabbage; wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonsful of vine- gar, and boil up. Cabbage {Red) Stewed.—Cut the cab- bage very thin ; and put it into the stew- pan, with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let It stew covered three hours. When it is very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Cabbage {Red) Stetved.—Take a fine red cabbage, cut it into thin slices cross- ways, and then into small bits; put them in a stewpan, with a pint of rich gravy, a pound of sausages, and three or four slices of ham or bacon; cover the stew- pan down close; set it on a moderate fire, let it stand half an hour, then un- cover it; skim off the fat, shake in some flour, put in two spoonsful of vine- gar, and cover it up; set it on again, and let it stew four or five minutes longer, take out the sausages, and pour the rest over it. Cabbage {Red) Syrup of.—Cut and wash a large red cabbage, put it into a stewpan and boil it in water three or four hours, till there remains no more than a pint of liquorput the cabbage into a sieve, squeezing it till you have ex- pressed all the juice; let it settle, and pour it off clear; then put a pound of Narbonne honey into a saucepan, with a glass of water; let it boil, skimming it often ; when the honey is very clear put it in the cabbage juice, and boil them together till of the consistence of syrup, like ail others. Cabbage Salad.—Boil a Savoy cabbage in water; drain, and dress it as you would a salad, with salt, pepper, some Provence oil, and vinegar, adding one or two anchovies, and a few capers : it may he served either hot or cold. Cabbage Soicp.—Put into your pot a few pounds of sliced beef and bits of ham; let it catch a little, then add weak broth or water, and all sorts of roots, a cabbage tied and well seal ded,a bitof pickled pork, a bay-leaf or miguionette. If you would garnish this souptvith any wild fowl, boil it in the same pot, and garnish the dish with the cabbage and the pickled pork, cut in pieces. Cabbage Soup.—Cut your cabbage into four parts; then let them be about three- quarters enough boiled in water; then take them up and squeeze them dry from the water; then place them in a large brass pan or dish, so that there may be room betwixt each piece of cabbage, to take up soup with a large spoon, then let them boil with as much gravy or stock as will cover them. Let them stew for two hours before dinner, then put a quarter of a pound of butter, and a handful of flour, into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring; add two onions minced, and stir it again ; then add a quart of veal gravy, boil it a little, and pour it all over the cabbage. If you choose, you may force pigeons, with good forced meat made of veal, fry them, and then stew them with the cabbage, put- ting in with them a little bacon, stuck with cloves. When it has stewed enough, take ofl the fat, soak bread in your dish with gravy or stock, place your fowl in the middle, and the cabbage all round. Garnish the dish with slices of bacon, and a little cabbage between each slice.CAB C A K (92) Cabbage Soap.—Boil aome rashera of streaked" bacon about two hours, in the quantity of water you require for soup; tlien add some cabbages previously blanched, and if you like, some sausages ; pepper and salt the soup, but take care to put very little salt,on account of the bacon. Skim well before^ you put in the cab- bages. This receipt is the same in most of the French cookery books, except that some tell you, that when the cabbage and bacon are done, you should soak a few slices of bread in some of the broth, and then mix them with the whole soup. Cabbaoe Soup, with Carrots and Ouiotis.*—Line a stewpan with bards of bacon, then blanch a cabbage in boiling water, let it drain, then cut it into quar- ters, and put it into the stewpan, with some carrots and onions cut in slices, moisten with soup meagre ; when suffi- ciently done, dress it on a dish, and serve. Cabbage ( Germaai) Soup.—Cut in small pieces and wash the heart of a fine cab- bage, and set it over a slow fire in a little butter. When the pieces begin to feel tender, and the butter is a little reduced, add some stock and veal gravy, in equal quantities; skim carefully, and when the soup has become of a brown colour, throw in little round and thin pieces of bread ; season to your taste, and serve. Cabbage Stewed.—Cut a cabbage into slips, blanch and drain them dry, and stew them in a stewpan, with a bit of fresh butter, pepper, salt, an onion, some vinegar, half a pint of veal broth, and a little allspice, tied in a cloth, till done, and the liquor nearly reduced, and then take the spice and onion out, and serve it- Cabbage Stewed.*—Blanch two mid- dling sized cabbages in water with a little salt; when they have been tiventy minutes in the boiling water, take them out and put them into cold water, then let them drain; after tliis take out their hearts; then cut very small half a pound of veal, and half a pound of bacon: some salt, whole pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, and allspice, all well pounded; then add the yolks of seven or eight eggs, and mi.x the whale well together, with the veal and bacon; put some of this stuffing into each of your cabbages, (in the place of the hearts), and tie them up wiLli packthread. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, and slices of veal, a little ham, three carrof, four onions, a little thyme, H bay leaf, and two cloves ; then put in the cabbages, cover them with bacon, and moisten with stock, .adding a little Sirit .and pepper ; let the whole sim- mer for an hour and a half, then let them drain on a napkin, and extract the gravy from them by gently pressing them; then untie and arrange them on a d’lsh; glaze them, and serve a Spanish I sauce all over them. If you do not liap- I pen to have any Spanish eauce ready, I make a light and moisten it with i the liquor in which your cabbages were dressed, and strain it through a silk sieve, and then pour it over the cabbages. _ Cabbage Stewed a VEspagnole.—Take six cabbages and boil them well", when done, drain them on a sieve, tie each separately with packthread, and lay them between bards of fat bacon with some good braise, to stew very gently; take j them out of the braise, and lay them in i a line upon a clean cloth; cut off the j packthread, and roll the cabbages tight | up in the cloth for a minute or two; then I open the cloth and cut the cabbages in || pieces, about six inches in length, and lay | them on the dish ; have a sauce d I’Es- pagnole ready, with a bit of butter mixed in it, and one squeeze of lemon ; this sauce when very hot pour over the cab- bages, and serve it to table. Cabbage stewea in this way is very good, and I prop6r to gsrnisli stewed beef of sny Kind) sometimes with other vegetables inter- mixed. I Cabbage Stuffed.—Blanch a large Sa- ( voy cabbage, and then put between its t leaves some forcemeat, made of any cold S meat you have in the house, adding an i( equal quantity of sausage, some pepper, ij salt, chopped parsley, ana a small hand- if ful of boiled rice. When you have put into the cabbage as much stuffing as it will contain, tie it well up with pack- thread. Next, make a rmtx with some butter, flour, and stock, properly season- ed ; heat up the cabbage in this roux, being careful that it does not break. Keep adding stock from time to time, so that the cabbage may be always covered. When it is perfectly done, serve it in a j deep dish in its soup. Cabbage en Surprise.*—Take a good whole cabbage, and, having boiled it a j quarter of an hour, put it into cold water, 1 and squeeze it. taking care not to break the leaves: then carefully take out the 1 heart, and supply the place with parboil- ed chesnuts and saus.ages, replacing the Ie.aves in such a manner .as to conceal what is within; tie the c.ibbage with pack- | tiiread, and stew it with some stock, s ^ little sail, and coarse pepper, rwts, I onions, and a bunch of herbs. When I done, drain, and serve with a good butter i sauce. CAKE. — Prepare ^ your ingredients the rame as described m ‘ the receipt for Cake, d la Parish-iue ;C A K ( 93 ) C A K tlien add a quarter of a pound of dry cur- ranip, well washed, four ounces of mus- cadel raisins, one ounce of preserved cedrat, cut into small strips, one ounce of candied orange, cut in the same man- ner, and a glass of Spanish wine, or a glass of rum j mix the whole well toge- ther, and finish the same as for Cake d la Parisieiine, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is very good eaten cold, but is much nicer cut into rather thin slices, and just browned by broiling, then placed upon a dish and masked all over with powdered sugar. Cake {Bolar).*—Oxia pound of flour dried in a slow oven, two spoonsful of yeast, some almond milk, and water to mix for a sponge; when raised, beat up three quarters of a pound of clarified butter, three eggs, and three quarters of a pound of sugar, well beaten till the spoon comes clean away; then add cin- namon powder, candied orange and lemon. Bake in earthen basins, well buttered ; keep it before the fire till put in the oven. Cake {Bolar).*—When the sponge is beat, as for the last, instead of mixing the sugar, it is rolled in the sugar and cinnamon. CAKE(B«fcA-Bo/ar).*—Done,asabove, without sugar; then prick holes with a sharp pointed knife, and while it is hot pour in three quarters of a pound of cla- rified sugar, flavoured with cinnamon or orange-flower. Almonds and sweetmeats are previously put in the cake.Ornament your cake with harlequin sugar-plums. This was a favourite cake of the late Queen Charlotte. Cake de Bmirneville-—Work about half a pound of flour, with five or six eggs whole, some fine chopped lemon- peel, a few drops of orange-flower water, a spoonful of plain water, and a little salt; then let it rest about an hour; you will put about as much butter as paste, and work it afterwards well together; bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you think proper, with sugar, non- pareils, or colours. Cake {Bread, Cmnmmi).—Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- rants. Warm the butter in a tea-cuplul of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. Cake {Breakfaxt),—Rvi\} a pound and a half ol butter into half a pecl<^f flour, three pounds of currants, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg together, a little salt, a pint and a half of warmed cream or milk, a quarter of a pint of brandy, five eggs, a pint of good ale yeast; mix it well together; bake it in a moderate oven. This cake will keep good for a quarter of a year. Cake {Bride).—Take four pounds of fine flour well dried, tour pounds oflresli butler, two pounds of loaf sugar, pounded and sifted fine, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and the samequantityof nutmegs; to every pound of flour put eight eggs; wash and pick four pounds of currants, and dry them before the fire ; blanch a pound of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthways, very thin, a pound of citron, a pound of candied orange, a pound of candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy ; first work the butter with your hand to a cream, then beat in your sugar a quar- ter of an hour ; beat the whites of your eggs to a very strong froth ; mix them with your sugar and butter; beat the yolks half an hour, at least, and mix them with your cake ; then put in your flour, mace, and nutmeg ; keep beating it till the oven is ready ; put in your brandy, and beat the currants and al- monds lightly in ; tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of your boons to keep it from running out; rub it well with butter, put in your cake, and the sweetmeats in three lays, with cake be- tween every lay ; after it is risen and co- loured, cover it with paper before your oven is stopped up; it will take three hours baking. Cake, d la Brie.*—Take some rich Brie cheese, knead it with a pint and half of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and a little salt; moisten it with five or six eggs beaten up; when it is well kneaded, let it stand for an hour; thmi lorm your cake and bake as usual. Cake {Cliantilti/, or Cuke Trijie).-r- Bake a rice cake in a mould; when cold, cut it round, about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custaru, and some tea-spoonsful of rasp- berry jam, and then put on a high whip. Cake de Compiegne.—The same paste as for brioches, only keep it more liquid w'ltli some hot milk ; put in a few stoned raisins and currants. This cake is made in a mould well trimmed with butter. Cakes {Dry).—Hub one pound of but- ter into one pound of flour, one pound of sifted sugar (the butter should be soaked all night in orange-flower or rose water);C A K ( 94 ) C A K whip to snow the whites of eight eggs, beat thc^'olksofsix with a little bramly, mix this very well; butter the pans,only half fill them ; they are baked in half an hour ; a brisk, not a scorching oven ; they will keep half a year. If agreeable, make them with currants, put three quarters of a pound. Cakes (Dutch).—Take five pounds of flour, two ounces of carraway-secds, half a pound of sugar, and something more than a pint of milk; put into it tlu-ee quarters of a pound of butler; then make a hole in the middle of the Hour, and put in a pint of good ale yeast; pour in the butter and milk, and make these into a aste, letting it stand a quarter of an our before the fire to rise; then mould and roll it into cakes, pretty thin; prick them all over, or they will blister, and bake them a quarter of an hour. Cake (Family).—Take rice and wheat flour, of each six ounces, the yolks and whites of nine eggs, half a pound of lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and half an ounce ofcarraway-seeds. Having beaten this one hour, bake it for the same time in a quick oven. This is a very light cake, and is very proper for young peo- ple and delicate stomachs. Cake (Fashion).—Mix a handful of flour with a pint of good cream, half a pound of beef suet, melted and sifted, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, half a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, dried flowers of orange, a glass of brandy, a little coriander, and salt; bake it as all other cakes, about an hour, and glaze or garnish it. Cakes (made of Flowers).—Boil double refined sugar to a candy height, and strew in your flowers and let them boil once up ; then, with your hand, lightly strew in a little double refinedsugar sifted, and •put it directly into little pans made of card, and pricked full of holes at the bottom ; you must set the pans on a cushion, and when they are cold, take them out. Cake, en Foun-is.* — Make a pull- paste, form it into two equal parts the size of the dish in which you mean to place your cake, and the thickness of two crowns eacli ; then take one of the cakes and put upon it some sweetmeats, leav- ing .about an inch, as a border, all round; wet it witli water and place tlie other cake upon it, draw up the edges care- fully with your fingers ; gild them with the yolk of egg, and bake tlieni in an oven. Cake,(i la Fra>icaise.*—Tjke a quart of sifted flour, make a sponge, add to it one ounce of salt, two ounces of suirar, a pound and a half of butter, and twelve eggs ; mix the whole well tt^ether, work up your paste; if it is toosiifl', moisten it with a little milk; then leave it to stand for half an hour, tlien add to it half a pound of butter, and give it four turns, the same as putt'-paste; put your cake into a mould, lay it very thick, cut it)e edges in form of a lozenge, gild it, put it iipoB a baking-tin, ornament it, and let it bake for an hour and a half in a mo- ' * derate oven. Cakes (Gum).— Take gum-draeon, let it lie all nigbt in rose-water, till it i» dissolved; have double-refined sugar, beaten and seered, and mix your gum and sugar together; make it up into a p.aste, then roll some up plain, and some with herbs and flowers; all the paste must be kept separately, the herbs and flowers must be beat small before you make them into paste; but you may use the juice of the flowers and herbs only; sweet marjoram, red roses, mari- golds, clove, gilliflowers, and blue-bottle berries, all clipped from the white; wl)en you have made all your colours ready, have to every one a little rolling-pin and a knife, or else the colours will mix; first lay a white, and then a colour, then a wliite again, for two colours will not do well; so roll them up, and cut them the bigness of a sixpence, but in wliat form you please, minding that they are rolled very thin. Cakes (Heart).—With your hand work a pound of Iwitter to a cream, then put to it twelve eggs, with only six of the whites well beaten, a pound of dried flour, a pound of sifted sugar, four spoonsful of good brandy, and a pound of currants washed and dried before the fire. .rVs the nans are filled, put in two ounces of canuied orange and citron, and continue beating the cake till yon put it into the oven. This quantity will be sufficient to fill three dozen of middlicg-sizcd pans. Cakes (Honeycomh).—Boil your sugar to a candy height; then put in your flowers, which must be cut; have little papers with four corners ready; drop some of your candy 0)1 the papers, take them oir when ready, and if tliev are rightly done, they will look full of boles like iionevcombs. Cakes( W.V(/e BrtrA-).—Take two pounds of flour, four ounces of common sugar, and half an ounce of carraway-secds pounded; then set a sponge with half a gill of yeast and .a little warm milk; when it works, take some boiling milk, add to it five ounces of fresh butter, mix it up liglit, and let it lie some time ; then roll it out, cut it into any form, and bake it in a moderate oven.C A K C A K ( 95 ) Cakes ( Liquorice.)—Talce hyssop and red rose-«Titer, of each half a pint, hall a pound of green liquorice, the outside scraped off, and then beat with a pestle j put to it lialf a pound of aniseeds, and steep it ail night in the water; boil it with a gentle-fire till the taste is v/ell out of the liquorice; strain it, put to it three pounds of liquorice powder, and set it on a gentle fire till it is come to the thickness of cream; take it off, and put to it half a pound of white_ sugar candy seered vciy fine ; beat this well together for at least three hours, and never suffer it to stand still ; as you beat it, you must strew in double-refined sugar finely seered, at least three pounds; half an hour before it is finished, put in half a spoonful of gum dragon, steeped in orange-flower water : when it is very white then it is beat enough ; roll it up with white sugar; and if you want it per- fumed, put in a pastil or two. Cakes {Little).* — To a pound of flour dried, add a pound of lump sugar rolled very fine, the peel of two lemons chopped small, and five ounces of butler; mix tliem thoroughly ; let it stand some lime before the fire, then add three eggs well beaten, the whites separately, pick them with a fork into small lumps, and bake them on a tin : this quantity will make about eighty cakes, instead of lemon- peel you mas’, if you please, add sixty bitter almonds blanched and beaten with white of egg until they are quite fine. Cakes {Lillie Short). — Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of but- ler, four ounces of white powder sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and carrawaysinto the rest. Cut them with the top of a canister, or glass, and bake on tins. Cakes {Lillie., for Tea). — Mix one pound of dripd flour, half a pound of fine sugar sifted, one ounce ofcarraway' seeds, a liitle nutmeg and pounded mace ; beat the yolks of two eggs with three spoon- fuls of sack : put these to the rest, with half a pound of butter melted in a little thin cream, or new milk; work all to- gether, roll it out thin, cut it into cakes with till or glass; bake them on tins; a little baking does in a alack oven. Cakes {Little fVhite).— Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few carraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister, or glass. Bake filieen minutes on tin plates. Cakecm Make a puff paste; roll it out to the thickness of half a fin- ger ; cut it in lozenges the width of two fingers, and gild over the cake with the yolk of an egg well beaten; bake them for a full quarter of an hour in an oven, then glaze them with sugar and a sala- mander. Cake a la Madeleine.—Take the same weight of flour, sugar, butter, and eggs. In general eight eggs are sufficient for an eutremet; put in a little salt and the rasped peel of a lemon ; work this paste a little till you have put all the butter into it. Melt a little butter in a stew- pan, and skim it well; pour a little into each mould, and then drain it, leaving, however, a drop at the bottom to facili- tale the coming out of the cake. Sift some ashes over a baking sheet, put the small moulds into it, and then put paste into eacli of them, about half the depth, to give it room to rise. Bake them in a moderate oven. When done, turn them out on a clean sheet of paper, and put them again into tlie oven for a few mi- nutes. By clianging the form of the mould you produce a dish of a different appearance ; and by occasionally empty- ing the inside with the point of a knife, and putting into the cavity either cream or sweetmeats, you make what is called Cakes d la Madeleine Farcies. Cakes d la Manon.*—Form some puff paste into an under-crust, and cover some baking plates with it; then spread all over them some frangipane, or mar- malade, of whatever sort you please; add some sweetmeat, and then cover with a very thin crust; gild and ornament them, then put them in the oven ; when they are three parts done, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze. When they are glazed put them to finish baking in a more gentle oven, and when done take them out of the tins, and serve them either hot or cold. Cakes {Maudling).—Take a quarter of a peck of flour, well dried before the fire, add two pounds of mutton suet, tried and strained clear off, and when it is a little cool, mix it well with the flour, some salt and a very little allspice beat fine ; take half a pint of water, stir it well together, strain it, and mix up your flour into a paste of a moderate stiffness ; you must add as much cold water, a.«> will make the paste of a right order, and make itmto cakes about the thickness and higiie.ss of an oat cake; have ready some currants clean washed and picked, strew some in the middle of your cakes, between the dough, so tliat none can be seen till the cake is broke. You may leave the currants out if you do not choose them.C AK (96) C A K Cakr Meat.~C\it tlie fillet from ihe inside ol the rump of beef into snnall pieces, also lean veal, and pound tliem very fine in a marble mortar. Tlien add a little lemon juice, pepper, salt, chopped paraley, basil, thyme, mushrooms, sa- vory and shalots, but only a small quan- tity of each; some beaten spices, and a sufficient quantity of yolks of eggs to bind it. Then add, and mix with your hands, some fat bacon, and lean of ham cut into dice. Then line a stewpan or mould with bards of fat bacon, fill it with the mixture, press it down; put on the top bay-leaves, and alittle rhenish wine, cover it with bards of fat bacon, and bake it tlioroughly in a moderate oven. When it is cold, turn it out of the mould, trim it clean, set it on a dish, put chopped savory jelly round it, and a small mo- delled figure on the top ; or the whole of the cake may be modelled. Cake {Meat)*—'iom cake should be named alter the meat or game you make use of. They are all made alike, except when you make tliem of game, you mix with the game an equal quantity of but- cher’s meat. For a mutton cake, take a leg of mutton, skin, and take off all the meat; mince it with a little beef suet, add to it a pound of bacon cut into dice, the yolks of six eggs, salt and ground apices, half a glass of brandy, some champignons, shalots, parsley and green onions ctiopped fine. Put some thin slices of bacon in a stewpan, and the mutton forcemeat tipon them, vvell mixed and seasoned ; let it stew at least three hours; when done, and cool, turn it out on a dish ; let the slices of bacon which will be found to adhere to tlie mutton, remain; scrape them lightly with a knife, and serve the mutton cake on a napkin placed in a dish. Cakes de Niavjjles.—Make a good putt paste, roll it pretty thick, and cut it into lozenges about the bigness of ihe palm of your hand ; lirusli it over witli yolks of eggs beat up, and strew maca- roni drops powder over them, with a little powder of orange-flowers, and lemon peel chopped very fine; stick bits of scalded sweet almonds in tlie paste, pointed upwards, cover them with paoer in the oven, to keep them of a palish colour. Cake a Nouille.*—Make some pule a Nouille with the yolks of six eggs ; when it is well mixed, add to it four glasses of boiling cream, in wliicli you liave pre- viously put ciglit ounces ol biittei’. Let it boil for a few minutes, then add six ounces of sugar, liaving tlie zest of an orftngp prftlcil ovpr it \ tli<^ whole well together,and then place it for half an hour over warm ashes, that tlie Nuuilles may swell and become firm: then add tlie yolks of eight eggs, and some salt to give it consistence; then pour it into a buttered mould, and let it bake for two hours in a moderateoven. Cake (A’></w).— Take four pounds of very fine flonr, and mix with it three pounds of double-refined sugar, finely beat and sifted; dry them by the fire till your other materials are prepared; take four poundsof flutter,beaiit in your hands till it is very soft like cream ; beat thirty-four eggs, leave out sixteen whites and take out the treads from all j beat the eggs and butter together till it ap- pears like butter, pour in four or five spoonfuls of rose, or orange flower-water, and beat it again ; then take your flour and sugar with six ounces of carraway seeds ; strew it in 'by degrees, beating it up all the while, for two hours to- gether ; put in as much tincture of cin- namon, or ambergris, as you please; liutter your hoop, and let it stand thiee hours in a moderate oven. Cake d la Parisienne.* — Take one pound and a half of finely sifted flour, make a sponge; then add four drachms of tine salt, two ounces of powdered sugar, the yolks of four eggs, one pound and a quarter of fine butter, and a glass of cream ; mix the wtiole well together, spread it out thin, and strew it over with vanilla chopped very small; then mix the whole well together again, after which mould your cake; fini.-h with paper bands, &c. the same as for all other cakes, and ornament it according to your own fancy. Then let it bake fi>r two liours and a half or three hours in a brisk oven. This cake should be eaten cold. Cakes {Pepper).—Take a cill of sack, and a quarter of an ounce of whole white pepper, put it in, and boil them together lor a quarter of an hour; tlien strain out the pepper, and put in as much double refined sugar as will make it hkr- a paste ; then drop it in what shape you please, on a tin-plate, and let it dry itself. Cake {Plum). — Three pounds of flour, three pounds of currants, three quartersofa pound ofalmonils. blanched and beat grossly, about half an ounce of tliem hitler, four ounces ol sugar, seven yolks and six whites of eggs, one pint of cream, two pounds of butter, lialf-a-pint of good ale yeast; mix the eggs and the veast tngetlier, strain them; set the cream on tlie fire, melt the butter in it ; stir in the nimniids, and half a pint of sack, part of which should be put to tlie almonds while beating; mix togetherI C A K ( !)7 ) c A K tlie flour, currants and sugar, what nut- megs, cloves and mace are. liked; stir these to the cream : put in tlie yeast. Cake {u ve>y fine rich Pluoi).—lake four pounds of the finest flour well dried and sifted, six pounds of the best fresh butter, seven pounds of currants well washed, picked and rubbed very clean and dry; two pounds of Jordan al- monds, blanched and beat in a marble mortar, with sack and orange flower- water, till they are very fine ; take four pounds of eggs, leave out half the whites, and add three pounds of double refined- sugar, beat and sifted through a lawn sieve, with mace, cloves and cinnamon, of each a quarter of an ounce; three large nutmegs beat fine, a little ginger : of sack and brandy half a pint each, sweetmeats to your liking, lemon and citron; take a large broad pan, beat the butter to a cream before any of your in- gredients go in, minding to beat it all one way, or it will turn to oil; put in the sugar, beat it well, and work in your almonds; let your eggs be well beat, put in, and beat all together till it looks white and thick ; put in the brandy, sack, and spices, and shake your flour in by degrees ; when your oven is ready, put in the currants and sweetmeats, and put it into your hoop; it will take four hours baking in a quick oven. Note.—As you mix it for the oven, you must be mindful to keep beating it all the time with your hand ; and your currants, as soon as cleaned, must be put in a dish before the fire, that they may be warm when mixed. The above quantity bakes best in two hoops. Cake (a Common Plum mie). — Take three pounds of flour, a little ale yeast, a pint of milk, a pound of sugar, a pound of butter, and a little allspice; make it into dough before you put in the plums, and work in as many as yon please. Cake {Phan a la Campagne).*—Take four pints of fine flour, make a hole in the middle, put into it one ounce of fine salt, two pounds of butter, six eggs, and three glasses of water, beat up the butter with the eggs, the salt, and the water; then mix the flour with the butter, then mix up your paste lightly, and give it four turns with the rolling pin, the same as in making puff paste; after this work- ing up, form your cake, sprinkling the table with flour, place it upon a pan, press it down till it is about three inclies thick; then surround the cake with a band ofstout paper, and to prevent the paste from extending, place over the first band of paper several smaller ones, welted with the yolk of egg beaten up; Place these bands of paper lialf upon the cake and half on the pan. Your cake being thus prepared, gild it, and with tli e point of a knife, describe upon it all sorts of figures according to your taste. Put it into a quick oven, and let it bake for three hours. This cake is better cold than hot. Cake (Plum d la Vanille)*—Take a pint and a half of flour; make a bole in the middle, put in it six drachms of sugar grated very fine, three drachms of white salt, the yolks of three eggs, a pound of butter, and a glass of good cream, and stir up the same as for plum cake d la Campagne; spread your paste out very thin; sprinkle, it with a piece ofvanille grated very fine, then form your cake, and proceed the same as for plum cake d la Campagne. This cake must not be eaten until it is quite cold. You may make in the same manner as the preceding, plum cakes with citron grated and put into bags, and sprinkled over the paste, also chocolate, cofl'ee, &c. Cakes d la Polonaise.*—Take some puff paste, and form it into a crust, one quarter of an inch thick; cut it into square pieces, moisten the surface of them, and gather up the four corners of each, and press them together; have ready some small round moulds, dip them in warm water, and put them through the middle of the cakes; then put them in the oven ; when they are three parts done, take them out, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them ; then let them finish baking; when done, take out the moulds, and fill them with whatever sweetmeat you think proper. Cakes d laPortugaise.*—Blanch and pound half a pound of almonds; mix wjth them the juice of three oranges with their peel very finely chopped up ; put this preparation into a pan, and add to it some powdered sugar, two ounces of very fine flour, and the yolks of six eggs, beat up the whites, and mix them also with the other ingredients ; then take a long mould, or paper case, butter It, and put in your preparation; let it bake in a_ moderate oven ; when done, cut them into small squares or lozenges ; glaze them, and put them in a stove to dry. Cake {Portuguese.)*—Made the same as pound cake, only add a pound of clari- fied butter, almonds, currants, &c. Cakes {Portugal).—Two pounds of flour, the same of butter,sugar, and cur- rants, nine yolks of eggs, four whites ; mix these with a little brandy; butter the pans, and bake them in a pretty hot oven. Cake {Potaid).—To a pound of sifted sugar, add a poutid of fresh butter, and KC A K J)8 C A K mix them with the liand ten minutes ; put to them nine yolks and five whites of eggs well beaten ; whisk all well, and add a pound of sifted flour, a few carra- way seeds, a quarter of a pound of can- died orange-peel cut into slices, a few currants washed and picked, and mix all together as light as possible. Cakes (Queen).— Beat one pound of butter to cream, with some rose-water, one pound of flour dried, one pound of sifted sugar, twelve eggs ; beat all well together; add a few currants washed and dried; butter small pans of a size for the purpose, grate sugar over them ; they are soon baked. They may be done in a Dutch oven. Cakes d la Reine.* — Blanch and pound one pound of sweet almonds; add a pound of sugar, a handful of crisp orange-flowers, and the whites of four eggs ; mix the whole well together; then mould your cakes into what form you lease; place them on tins, and let them ake in a moderate oven ; mask them the same as Genoiaeglacie d V Italienne, and ornament them according to your taste. Cake de Roaquelle- — Take half a pound of sweet almonds, with a few hit- ter ones, blanch and pick them, then pound them very fine, and when nearly pounded enough, put in about half a pound of Lisbon sugar by degrees ; when the whole is well blended, take it out of the mortar. Then have some puff paste rolled out very thin, roll out your al- monds in lengths, as long as the paste is broad, which lay upon the paste, and turn the end over ; lightly egg it to join it toaether; then with the gigging iron cut it across, each about three inches long ; put them in the oven, and when nearly done, glaze them the same as other pastry. Cakes (Rout Drop),—Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto sugar, one ditto cuiT.mts, clean and dry; then wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, a large spoonful of orange-flower water, ditto rose water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy ; drop on a tin plate floured ; a very short time bakes them. Cake d la Royale.*—Put a very little lemon peel, shred fine, into a srewpan, with two ounces of sugar, a small pinch of salt, a piece of butter half the size of an egg, a glass of water, and four or five snooKsfiil of fl our ; stir over the fire till tlie paste becomes tliick, and licgins to adhere to the stewpan; then take it ofl', put in an egg, and stir it in the paste till it is well mixed ; continue to add one egg at a time, till the paste softens without becomhig liquid; then put in some dried orange flowers, and two bitter almond- biscuits, the whole shred fine; make the | paste into little cakes, about the size i round of a half-crown ; put them on but- tered paper, gild them with the yolk of an egg beat up, and bake half an hour in an oven moderately hot. Cakes, Saffron.—Take a quarter of a peck of flour, a pound and a half of but- ter, three ounces of carraway seeds, and six eggs ; beat a quarter of an ounce of cloves and mace together very fine, a pennyworth of cinnamon, beat a pound of sugar, a pennyworth of rose-water, ditto of saflron, a pint and a half of yeast, and a quart of milk ; mix all together lightly, with your hands, thus: first boil the milk and butter, skim ofi' the butter, and mix it with the flour, and a little of the milk, stir the yeast into the rest, and strain it; mix it with the flour, put in your seed, spice, rose-water, tincture of saffron, sugar and eggs; beat all up with your hands very lightly, and bake it in a i hoop or pan, minding to butter the pan i| well; it will take an hour and a half in a i quick oven; you may leave out the seeds , i if you please. Cakes (Saroy).*—Put fourteen whole i eggs in one side of a pair of scales, and I their weight in fine sugar on the other > side ; take out the sugar, and seven of I the eggs, and l>alance the remaining ( seven with fine flour, then put the flour 3 aside, break the eggs, putting the yolks 1 apart from the whites, add to the yolks ? the sugar you have weighed, a little grated lemon-peel, and some chopped i* dried orange-flowers; beat them all up :{ together for half an hour; then whip the q whites of the eggs, put the flour you have I weighed to them, then gradually mix the | whole together, stirring the ingredients :i with the whisk as you mix them. Have t ready a cake-ring, butter it, put the cake ;t in it, and set it in an oven moderately ( hot, a full hour and a half; when done, > turn it carefully out upon a dish; if it is '( of a fine golden colour, serve it simply, |j but if it is of too deep a colour, ice it with il very fine sugar, the white of an egg, and i| the juice of hiilf a lemon, beat well to- I gether with a wooden spoon, till the icing IS very white; the cake should not be served until the ice is perfectly dry. Cake Seerf.*—Take a pound of lunm sugar, well beaten and sifted, twelve j ounces of flour, well dried, two ounces 1 of carraway seeds, eight eggs, beat them q well, then put in your sugar, beat them I first well together, then add your flour ( and carraways. Beat ihcm all well to- t gether; butter your cake, but not too j much ; then hake it. , |1 Cake Put a pound and a had ||C A K ( 99 ) C A K ! of flour, to half n pound of fresh butter, broke into email pieces, and likewise a I (juarter of a pound of sifted aujjar, and i half a grated nutmeg; make a hole in the : centre of the flour, and set a sponge with a gill of yeast, and a little milk; when well risen, add slices of candied orange or lemon-peel, and an egg beaten up. Mix all well together, with a little warm milk, of a proper stiffness, mould it into a cake, prove it in a warm place, and bake it. .n , ,, Cake (a Rich Seed one).—Take five ! pounds of fine flour, well dried, and four 1 pounds of single refined sugai^ beat and ; sifted ; mix these together, and sift them 1 through an hair sieve; then wash four j pounds of butler in eight spoonsful of '? rose or orange-flower water, and wash the ij butter with your hands till it is like s cream; beat twenty yolks and ten whites i) of eggs, and put to them six spoonsful of n sack; put in the flour a little at a time, >! and keep stirring it with your hand all !> the time ; you must not begin mixing it I till the oven is almost hot, and after it is d mixed let it stand some time before you j put it into the hoop; when you are ready I to put it in the oven, put to it eight -■ ounces of candied orange-peel sliced, d with as much citron, and a pound and a ; half of carraway comfits, mix them well, 1 and put it into the hoop: it must be a 3 quick oven, and two or three hours will ( be sufficient to bake the cake; after if which you may ice. it if you please. M Cakb (a small Rich Seed).—Break a fourteen eggs into a copper pan, whisk ;6 them ten minutes; then take one pound if of butter, and rub it well with your hand I to a cream ; put one pound of powdered sugar to the eggs, and whisk them over t the fire three minutes, then whisk them f till they are cold, afterwards mix them b with the butter with your hand as light j as you can ; put two or three handsful of 1 carr.iway seeds in, and some sweet al- 9 monds cut; and a little cinnamon and • mace ; mix one pound and a quarter of SR flour, as light as you can with your hand; tl put three papers inside your hoop, and W four or five at bottom, ariii let your oven ih be rather brisk; when you find your K cake has risen, and the oven loo hot at M the top, cover it with a sheet of paper, and it will be done in about an hour and a half, or two hours at farthest. Cake (Seed Common).* —One pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, aquarterof a pound of sugar, a few carra- ways, a pint of milk, a spoonful of yeast, mixed well together; let it stand a long time before the fire, then put it in the oven. Cake (a Pound Seed).—Take a pound of flour, one pound of fine powder sugar, one pound of butter, eight yolks, and four whites of eggs, as much carraway seeds as you like j first beat up the but- ter to a cream with your hantls, beating it one way lest it oil; then by degrees beat in your eggs, sugar, and flour, till it goes into the oven; bake it in a quick oven, and it will take an hour and a quarter baking. Cakes (Shretrsbury). — Having beat half a pound of butter to a cream, put in half a pound of flour, an egg, six ounces of loaf sugar, beaten and sifted, half an ounce of carraway seeds, mixed into a paste, and roil them in. Cut them round with little tins, or a small glass, prick them, lay them on sheets of tin, and bake them in a slow oven. Cakes (Shrewsbury).—Take a pound of butter, and put it in a little flat pan, rub it till it is as fine as cream, then take one pound of powdered sugar, a little cinnamon and mace pounded, and four eggs, yolks and whites together; beat them with your hand till it is very light; then take one pound and a half of sifted flour, work it together, and roll it on your dresser, to what size you like, only very flat, let your oven be rather slow, and let them change their colour, then take them out. Cakes (Small).— Rub well together half a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, and three quarters of a pound of sifted flour, then wet it with a gill of boiling milk, strew in a few carra- way seeds, and let it lie till the next day; when moulded, and cut into six score pieces, roll them as thin as possible, and bake them in an oven three parts cold. CAKEa(Spa?iish).*—One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, one pound of eggs, leaving out one third of the whites put them into moulds, and bake them in a slow oven. Cake (Spowg-e).—Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of six in flour; beat the yolks with tlie flour, and the whites alone, to a very still froth: then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingre- dients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. Cakes (Twelfth).—Make a cavity in the centre of six pounds of flour, set a sponge with a gill and a half of yeast, and a little w.irm milk; put round it a pound of fresh butter, in small lumps, a pound and a quarter of sifted sugar, four pounds and a half of currants, half an ounce of sifted cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of pounded cloves, mace, and nutmeg mixed, and sliced candied orange and lemon-peel, and citron. When K2100 C A L CAL riBen, mix all well together with a little warm milk; have the hoops well pre- pared and buttered, and fill them with the mixture, and bake them. VVlien nearly cold, ice them over with sugar, as per receipt, nr they may be quite plain. Cake en Turban.—This is the same composition as Turk’s Cap, with ice cream, only baked in small moulds, rib- bed or twisted in the same manner as the large ones, and served in their natural colour. Cak-e^( fVater, with Carraway Seeds). —Take three pounds of powdered sugar, and four pounds of sifted flour, mix the flour and sugar together on a clean dresser, with half water and half whites of eggs, and as many carraway seeds as you think proper, mix all together, so as to make a very tine p.aste, that you can roll it on the dresser, and the thinner the letter ; cut out the shape you like with a tin cutter; round and scalloped is the mo.st common, but vary the shape to yourotyn fancy, roll them very thin, and they lyill be the crisper, for if they are not crisp, they are not worth eating; put them on a sheet of paper, and put them into rather a slow oven, and if you think it too hot, put as many sheets of paper as you think fit, to prevent them from being burnt, bake them very little, so as just to change the colour of them, and butter the sheet of paper you put them on, that they may come oil'easily. Cakes ( Yeast).—Take a pound offlour. two pounds of currants, washed ana picked, a quarter of a pound of fresh but- ter, a quarter of a pound of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of a pound of citron and candied orange-peel cut into slices, cinnamon and mace, a small quantity of each pounded and sifted. Make a hole in the centre of the ingredients, put in a gill of sweet wine, a little warm milk, mix all to- gether, fill a hoop with it, let it remain till it rises, and bake it. Cakes ( Yorkshire).—Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter, melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonsful of yeast, and two eggs; beat all well together, and let it rise; tlien knead it, and make it into cakes ; let them rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is shorter, the last lighter. CALF’S Brains in Aspic.*—Prepare YOur brains as for poclees. Put some iukewarmaspicinto a mould, lay itabout an inch thick, let it cool and congeal, and then having cut the brains into four part.--, place, them on the aspic in a thin layer, and pour on them a sufficient quan- tity of nearly cold aspic to fill the mould, and place it in ice. When properly set, and it is wanted for tablej heat a cloth, and rub your mould witli it until the jelly quits the side; or dip the mould into warm water; turn it out with great care, and if any pieces of the jelly should be spilt on the dish, suck them up by means of a reed. Calf’s Brains d VAllemunde. *— Cleanse the brains thoroughly; divide them into four lengths, trim, and put them into a siewpan, lined with bacon, moisten with white wine and confownne, add parsley, green onions, and slices of lemon, without the seeds and peel. Cover them with bacon and buttered paper; cook them over a stove; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them sauce allemande. Calf’s Brains in Black Butter.— Clean, soak, and blanch three or four calves’ brains ; put them into a saucepan full of boiling water, with a little salt and half a glass of vinegar; let them remain in this till cold, which will make them firm. Cook them in a good marinade for three quarters of an hour, and when ready to serve, pour some blatk butter inio the dish, and garnish with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains au Blane-mange.*—' When the brains are w'ell cleansed and soaked, place them on two slices ef bacon, and two of lemon, in a stewpan, with a glass of stock. When sufficiently done, take them out, and when cool, cut them in stripe, and pour over them white sauce, cream boiled with the yolks of eggs, or any other cream sauce you please. Calf’s Brains Breaded.* — Prepare them as for plain boiling, soak them for two hours in vinegar; take them out, and roll them in eggs beaten to a thick snow, coverthem with breadcrumbs, and either broil or fry them. Calf’s Brains, Coguiltes of.*—Cut some calf’s brains into twelve pieces, and put into a saucepan mushrooms and truf- fles, tossed up in a little white wine; re- (liice them to jelly, and then add two spoonsful of allemande,a.ndone. of veloute, boil these, and put to them a little but- ter, parsley, and lemon juice, put in the brains, mix them altogether, and put them into scallop-sliells, cover them with bread crumbs, and grated ;>armesan- cheese, pour a little melted butter over, and brown them. Calf’s Brains and Crayfish.*—Boil the brains in a little slock, drain, and place them on a dish, so that the end of each piece may meet in the middle. Take the hails and claws from as manyCAL ( 101 ) CAL crayfish as you please, and place one be- tween each piece of the brain. Put one in tlie middle, with the tail and claws on. Pour over the brains either butter of cray-fish or tomata sauce. Calf’s Brains, Crepinettes o/.*—Di- vide six boiled calves’ brains each_ in half; cut a dozen large onions into dice, scald, and boil them with a bit of butter, salt, garlic, pepper, nutmeg, and bay- leaf; when done, put in two Jadlesful of velouti, reduce the whole to the consis- tence of batter, and then add the yolks of four eggs, and a piece of butter, wrap each half brain in this, and surround it with a pork caul. Serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Calf’s Brains, Cromesquis of.—Cut the brains, a veal sweetbread, a dozen mushrooms, and four truffles, into dice ; put the two latter into some allemande, and reduce it, then add the brains and sweetbread, and a little nutmeg; stir them together, and set them to cool. Mould them in pieces about the size of a little finger; take sorne cold calf’s udder, and cut it into thin slices, and lay a roll on each, and wrap it up; dip them in batter, and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Brains Fried*—Prepare and dress the brains as for poeiees, then cut them into six pieces, and put them into a basin, with salt, pepper, and vinegar, till just before they are wanted, when they should be drained; put them into batter (not too hot), and fry them; drain them again, and place them on a dish round a pyramid of fried parsley. Calf’s Brahis in Jelly.*—Put some jelly into a plain round mould, and set it in ice ; and as soon as the jelly is well set, turn it on the table-dish, which must be placed over pounded ice ; put on the jelly a whole calf’s brain, cover it entirely with iced Montpelier butter (see the Recipe); on this lay three more brains boiled very white ; ornament the top with pieces of jelly, and garnish yoar dish with a border of jelly or coloured butter, and serve. Calf’s d la Magnonnaise.*— Cleanse and soak five calves’ brains in cold water for some hours; drain and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a tittle salt and half a glass of tarra- gon vinegar; having boiled them a quar- ter of an hour, take out the brains care- fully, and put them in a pan of cold water. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the brains, and on them sliced lemons; cover the whole witli bacon and buttered paper; add a buncli ot sweet herbs, two onions stuck with cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the brains; when it boils, set the stewpan by the side of the fire, and keep it simmering for an hour ; let the brains cool in their liquor, and then drain them on a napkin; divide each brain in half, trim and place them, en couronne, on the table-dish; garnish them with a border of jelly, and in the spaces between each half brain, lay a crescent of jelly cut with a paste-culter, two inches and a half in diameter. Pour into the centre of the crown a sauce magnonnaise, either white, or « la ravi- gotte, and serve. Calf’s Brains, en Malelotte.*-^T&kQ the brains from two calves' heads, cleanse them well, and stew them with white wine, stock, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. In tlie meantime make a ragoQt of small onions, roots with stock, and svveet herbs; season it well, thicken it with cullis, and pour this round the brains. Calf’s Brains, au Naturel.*—Take the brains from two calves’ heads, clean and soak them in warm water; boil them in good stock, or emsomme. Serve either cold or warm. Calf’sBrains,with Oysters.*—Blanch and clean the brains, then wipe them dry, dip them into yolks of eggs, and roll them in breadcrumbs; fry them in boiling lard till of a good colour, drain them very dry, and serve with oysters, stewed either white or brown. Garnish with broiled ham cut in small round pieces. Calf’s Bruins, Pasty of.—Cleanse and scald the brains, then blanch some as- paragus tops with a little parsley and butter; when cold, put them into the pasties, with the yolks of six hard eggs and some forcemeat; put them into the oven, and when done, lift up the upper crust, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, butter, and gravy. Calf’s Brains, Poeiees.*—Take three calves’ brains, remove the skin and fibres from them, and soak them for two hours; then have ready a saucepan of boiling water, with a little salt and vinegar in it; blanch the brains in this for a quarter of an hour, and then put them into cold water. Line a stewpan with bacon, lay in the brains, cover them with bacon, and pour over the whole a sufficient quan- tity oipoiUe to stew them. Calf’s Brains, d la Provenqale.*— Prepare four calves’ brains as (or poilces, and having blanched them, boil them in H marinade of nouilles, white wine, gar- lick, and olives; when done, drain and let them cool; cut the brains in half.102 1 C A CAL ti-im and dish them in the form of a crown, and serve with mayonnaise, either green or white. Calf’s Bruins, cat Biveil. —Prepare and braise any number of calves’ brains; make a batter with cullis, butter, and mustard; bathe the brains in it, and strew over bread-crumbs and cheese. Colour them with a salamiinder or in the oven. Serve them on cullis and mustard. They may also be broiled slowly, and served with relishing sauce. Calf’s Brains, Salad of.*— Prepare and dress calf’s brains as for la magncm- naise; place them also en cuuronne, on a bed of lettuce,cut small and dressed as •usual; garnish each piece of the brains ■with lettuce, and arrange a border of eggs, lettuce hearts, and anchovies cut in slips. When about to serveit, pour over the brains, or into the middle of them a smccmagnonnaise a la ravigotte. Calf’s Brains toithdifferent Sauces.— Brains braised in broth and wine may be used with wliatsauce or ragohtyou please, such as fat livers, pigeons, sausages, onions, capers, fried bread, &c. &c. from which they generally take the name. Calf’s Brains, au So/eff.’'’—Cleanse two calves’ brains, and stew them instock with two or three spoonsful of vinegar, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a clove of garlick, three cloves, thyme, laurel, and basil: when sufficiently stewed, cut each iece of the brain in two, dip them in a atter made of two handsful of flour, di- luted with a little oil, half a pint of white wine, and salt. Fry them in lard until the batter is crisp and the brains of a gold colour. Calf’s Chaudron, A VAllemande. — Make agratici with Swiss cheese rasped, bread-crumbs, t.vo yolks of eggs, and a little cullis; place it in a table-dish over hot ashes, that it may catch at the bot- tom ; then put in a chaudron, boiled, cleared of the fat, cut in pieces, and pre- viously mixed with sauce Robert. _ Gar- nish the dish with small onions boiled in broth, and bits of bread fried in butter; pour on it a little butter melted with a spoonlul of mustard. Strew bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and colour it in the oven; wipe the dish free from fat, and serve with clear relishing sauce. Calf’s Chaudron, and Anchovies.*— Melt some butter in a stcwpan, and toss up in it some small onions sliced ; add a little slock or veal broth; put into this the chaudron properly prepared, and cut in pieces with salt, pepper, tarragon, and herbs. When they are flavoured, pour them into a buttered mould, and place on them six anchovies washed and split in four pieces, in the forms of crosses. Cover the whole with caul, and bake in a moderate oven. Calf’s Chaudron and Cheese.'—Toss up the chaudron with a bit of butter, and some small onions, with half a glass of stock. Cut some gruyere cheese into | thin slices, melt it, and baste with veal | gravy mixed with the yolks of two or j three eggs; pour over this the chaudron | and sauce, and brown it. : Calf’s Chaudron, fricussie.—Parboil i a cajf’s chaudron, and when cold, cut it in pieces about as big as walnuts; season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, ^ mace, an onion, tarragon, and parsley, shred fine; fry them in a ladleful of good broth and fresh butter ; make a sauce of mutton gravy, orange and lemon-juice, eggs’ yolks, and grated nutmeg; toss up these ingredients with the chaudron, \ then dish it and serve. ; Calf’s Chaudron Fritters.*—Cook a I prepared chaudron with salt, parsley, j scallions, garlick, a bay-leaf, thyme, ba- sil, and two or three cloves. Whensnf- ficiently done, drain it, and clear away the fat, cut it small, and marinade it an hour in butter; two spoonsful of vinegar, parsley, scallions, sbalots (all minced), | salt, and pepper; warm the marinade, then take outthecliaudron, and roll them ii up by degrees, making the herbs, 8x. stick to them; dip them in egg, bread, | and fry them. ; Calf’s Chaudron, d la Mariniere.*— ■ When the chaudron is prepared, cut it in strips about three fingers long; soak I them instock, seasoned with salt, pepper, | cloves, and vinegar, over hot ashes; dtp them in batter made of flour, yolks of eggs, and white wine. Calf’s Chaudron Pie.—Make a ragodt with a chaudron (previously boiled), mushrooms, parsley, shalots. garlick,a glass of white wine, and cullis. When quite done, cut the chaudron in slices, and put it with the sauce into a baked putr crust; skim the fat off, add pepper, . salt, and lemon-juice. Calf’s Chaudron, d la Provencals.*— Soak itwellin lukewarm water to cleanse it thoroughly; boil it in stock, then cut it in pieces and let it cool. Make a sauce with good stock, two spoonsful of oil, salt, pepper, garlick, dried mushrooms cut small; do these together, and when of a proper consistence, put the chaudron in for about ten minutes. When done, add lemon-juice. I Calf’s Chaudrm Pudding.*—Prepare your chaudron, and cut into small pieces the size of a nut; season with stilt, pep- per, tarragon, scallions, spices, and pork latent small; you may add some gvt/i- veau and the crumb f bread boiled iu 'CAL ( 103 ■) CAL ihllk and beaten up with yolks of ei?g8. Soften some caul in warm water, lay them open on the table, and fill them with the above mixture; form them to any shape you please, and bake them ; when crisp, they are ready to serve. Pour on them blond or veal gravy. Calf’s Chitterlings.—Chuse some of the largest calves’ nuts, and having cleansed them, cut them in pieces, of whatever lengths you may think proper, and tie one end of each piece. Blanch a calf’s cliaudron, and cut it into dice, with a calf’s udder and some bacon; put them into a stewpan with half a pint of cream, pounded spice, bay-leaf, slialot, pepper, and salt, toss them up, take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs and some bread-crumbs; keep it warm and fill the chitterlings with it; tie up the other end and boil them, let them cool in their own liquor. When wanted, boil them over a moderate fire. Calf’s Chitterlings. — Cut into dice, some bacon, a calf’s udder, and the fat that comes from the chitterlings and calves’ chaudron; put them all into a stewpan with a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, shalot cut small, pounded raace, and Ja- maica pepper, with half a pint of milk, let it just simmer; take off the pan, and thicken it with four or five yolks of eggs, and some crumbs of bread; fill the chit- terlings with this mixture, wliich must be kept warm, and make the links like hogs’-puddings. Before they are sent to table, boil them over a moderate fire; let them cool in their own liquor. Calf’s Chitterlings stewed. — Cut a calf’s nut, lengthways, in slices about an inch wide; take some ham, bacon, white part of chickens, and cut them in the same way; put them into a stewpan 'vith sal t, pepper, sweet herbs, and spice; then, having cleansed the guts, cut and tie them, fill them with the slices; line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, pepper, salt, bay-leaf, and an onion, lay in the chitterlings, cover them with bacon and veal, pour in a pint of white wine, put the lid down quite close, and stew them with fire, above and below, lor some time ; then take out the pud- dings, and broil them in buttered papers. Calf’s Ears braised.*—Scald, blanch, and clean the ears thoroughly from the hair, and braise them in the following way: put some good stock into a small saucepan, with half a pint of white wine, half a lemon sliced (withont the peel) a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and some •roots; stew the ears in this, and cover them with bacon, \7heu done, serve tvith sauce piquante. or a la ravigotte. Calf’s Ears, and Cheese.*—Prepare half a dogen ears, and boil them with half a glass of white wine, double the qiuan- tityofgood stock, salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, garlic, two cloves, half a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and a bit of butter. As soon as they are done, lake out the ears and let them drain. Make a stuffing with a handful of dried bread- crumbs, half a pint of milk, and a little grnyere cheese, grated ; stir them over the fire until they thicken. When cold, add a little butter and the yolks of four raw eggs; beat all up together, and fill the ears,and dip them into hot butter. Cover them with equal quantities of bread crumbs and grated cheese mixed together ; place them in a dish, and brown them. Serve without sauce. Calf’s EarsdVItalienne.*—Scald, Sx:. the calves ears, and boil them in flour and lyater, then put them into a stew- pan lined with bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, sliced lemon, moisten with equal parts of stock and white wine. Cover the whole with buttered paper; boil them slowly for an hour ana a half; drain, trim, and place them on a dish, with sauce A I’halienne. Calf’s Ears in Marinade.*—When you have prepared the number of ears you re- quire,boil them in some blanc, and then throw them into cold water. VVhen well drained cut each ear into three or four pieces, put them into pickle made with vinegar, salt, and a b.ag of herbs ; drain them again, and dip each piece into bat- ter, and fry of a good colour. Before you place them in a dish, they must be drained a third time. Garnish with fried parsley. Calf’s Ears in Pease. — When you have properly prepared four ears, cook them in a little clear stock, lemon juioe, salt, pepper, a bunch of parsley, cloves, garlic, and a laurel leaf. When done, serve them with a ragout of pease, pre- pared as follows : put a pint and a half of pease with a bit of butter, a little pars- ley, and green onions, and a pinch of flour, moisten with gravy and stock into a saucepan, over a gentle fire until sufhciently done; put in a lump of sugar about the size of a walnut, a little salt, and a spoonful of cullis ; pour the whole over the ears. Ragodl of, with Mush- rooms. —1 repare and dress the eare the satiie as for VItulienne, and when done, drain and place them on your dish, tor table. Trim, and toss up some musli- rooms in bu tter, to which add four large spoonsful of tiefoK/e, and the same of con- somni, reduce this to half; thicken it with the yolks of two eggs, and pour it over the ears.CAL ( lo-l ) CAL Cast’s Ears Stuffed.*-~Sca.\d two or tliree pair of calf's ears, and liaving blanched, cool and singe them ; fill each ear witli a good stulling, press it in well; dip the ears in egg, cover them with bread crumbs, fry them of a nice brown ; serve with clear gravy. Cau'’s Ei/es.—Clear away all the im- proper parts, blanch and cook them in a braise, made with white wine, stock, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. When done they may be served with any kind of sauce you please. You may also fry them with bread crumbs, &c. Calf’s Feet Blanc-man^e,— Pick all the black spots from two boiled feet, slice them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pint of Mountain wine, and rather more water; let them stewgently; add the yolks of thite eggs beaten and strained, with a quarter of a pint of cream and a little flour, alittle lemon peel and juice, sweeten with fine sugar, strain it into a dish. When nearly cold, stick on the top some jar raisins, scalded to make them plump, almonds blanched and cut into slips, citron, lemon and orange peel sliced. It may be put in a basin ; when cold turn it out. Calf’s Feet plain, boiled* — Clean and skin the feet well; take out the large bones, boil them till tender, and serve with salt, pepper, vinegar, and sweet herbs. Calf’s Feet Broth.—Boil the feet in as much water as will make a good jelly, then strain, and set the liquor on the fire again with a little mace in it; put about half a pint of sack to two quarts of the broth ; add half a pound of currants; beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix them with a little of the cold liquor, and thicken carefully over a slow fire ; put in a little salt, and then sweeten to your taste; stir in a small piece of butter, and just before you take it off, put to it the juice and peel of a fresh lemon. Calf’s Feet Fried.* — Divide four calves’ feet each in half, and boil them in flour and water. Then soak them in butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, vinegar, garlic, shalot, parsley, green, onions, thyme, laurel and parsley. After they have laid some hours in this, take them out,coverthem well with flour and fry them. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Feet, and Chaudron a I’lta- lienne.*—Make a stuffing with the crumh of a small loaf, a pound of suet, nn onion, parsley, pepper, salt, garlic, and eight or ten eggs ; put this into the chaudron, and tie it up. Put the feet into a deep stew- pan, over a slow fire, till the bones are loose, then put in two quarts of green pease, and add the yolks of two eggs, and the juice of a lemon, and seasoQ it with pepper, salt, mace, onion, parsley, and garlic. Put the chaudron in the middle of your dish, and the calf’s feet round. Oarnish with fried suckers, and sliced onions. Calf’s Feet Jelly.—Take the fat and bones from eight calves’ feet, and soak them in water for three or four hours ; then boil them in six quarts of water, skimming often; when reduced to a third, strain and set it by to cool; when cold, take every particle of fat from the top, and remove whatever may liave settled at the bottom. Dissolve it in an earthen_ pan, adding to it two quarts of white wine, mace, cinnamon, and ginger, or not, as you please. Beat up the whites of twelve eggs with three pounds of fine sugar, mix these with the jelly. i boil it gently, adding the juice ol two ^ lemons, and then strain it for use. Another IVay.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s feet, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment, and mix with it the juice of a Seville orange aud twelve lemons, the peels of three, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, about a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of cori- ander seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised and previously mixed together. Boil it a 'quarter of an hour without stirring : then clear it through a flannel bag. While running, take a little of the jelly, and mix with a tea-cup- ful of water, in which beet-root has been boiled, run this tlirough the bag when all the rest is done, this forms a garnish for the other. Calf’s Feet Jelly.—Wash and set on the fire in cold water, four calf's feet, observing when they begin to bo'il, to skim it well; set them by the side of a hot stove to boil gently for several hours; when all the bones are separated, pas.s the liquor tlirough a silk sieve, into a large basin orj pan; when cold, and a jelly, take all the fat from the top, wipe it well off with paper, that not the least particle remain, then set it on the fire again to boil, skim it well, take it off, and let it stand while you beat up the whites of six eggs in .a large stewpan, to which put a very small bit oflemon peel, and the juice of four lemons, clarified sugar to sweeten to your taste, and a bottle of bucellas wine; mix them well together, and examine the jelly that no fat may remain ; if there should, take it off the fire, and pour it in the stewpan. with the wine and other things, set it on the fire and continue stirring it till it boils, and let it boil very gently for three105 ) CAL CAL 1 or foOr lionrs. Have your jelly-bag I washed very clean, place it in the. stand \ over a lai'ge basin, and when the jelly is I ready, run it tliroiigh several times, till it looks clear and bright; when all is through, set it over the fire once more I till you see a white scum rise, skim that ott", and when the jelly begins to boil it is ready to put into moulil. ^ You may 1 garnish your jelly as you fill it iifl, with ditierent kinds of grapes, &c. placed in Uie mould. Calf’s Feet Pie.—BoW the feet in three quarts of water, with three or four I blades of mace, gently, till reduced to j half, then lake out the feet and drain I them. Lay a good crust in a dish, and when you have boned the feet, put half the meat in it, strew over half a pound of 1 currants, and half a pound of raisins I stoned; lay on the rest of the meat, skim the liquor they are boiled in. sweeten I and add to it half a pint of white wine. ! Pour all into a dish, cover it with crust, I and bake it an hour and a half. I Calf’s Feet d la Poulette.* — Bone I the feet, and when boiled, cut them into I small pieces, and put them into a sauce- i pan with a bit of butter, mushronms, ; parsley, green onions, garlic shalots, laurel leaf, thyme, basil, and cloves. I Warm them over the fire ; put in a little i flour, a glass of white wine, the same of 1 stock, season with salt and pepper. Boil it for half an hour over a gentle fire, when reduced to half, take out the herbs and add the yolks of three eggs diluted with a spoonful of vinegar, and one of stock. Thicken without boiling it, and serve quick. Calf’s Feet d la Proven<;ale.* — Soak some boiled calf’s feet in a little olive oil, lemon juice, and a glass of good stock, stew them over a slow fire until quite tender. Then work up a little butter and flour, and do it over tbe fire j to colour, then put in the feet, add a I pounded anchovy, and some more lemon i juice, boil all together a quarter of an ■| hour, and serve very hot. I Calf’s Feet Pudding.—Mince a pound : of calf’s feet fine, first taking out the j fat and tbe brown, mix with it a pound j and a half of shred suet, the crumb of a ! small roll grated, the yolks of* six, and I the whiles of three eggs well beaten, 1 sufficient milk to moisten it, and sugar to your taste. Boil it nine hours ; serve 1 with melted butter, white wine, and : suirar. j Calf’s Feet Roasted. — Blanch and i boil the feet till tender, then let them ' c^l. When cold lard them with small ' pieces of bacon, tie them on a spit and roast them ; serve them with a sauce made of butter, vinegar, and cinnamon, beaten up thick. Calf’s Feet Farces en Soldi.— Pre- pare the call’s feet, take out the bone as far as the joint, and stew them. When done, set them to drain. Then take a little/«»re fine, leaving out the eggs,and stuli’ the middle of each foot, making them as round as you can ; dip them first into an omelet, seasoned with pep- per and salt, and then twice into bread crumbs, and fry them of a finebtown. Garnish with fried parsley very green, and send up with them brown sharp sauce. Calf’s Feet Stewed. — Divide each foot into four pieces, put them to stew with half a pint of water, with a potatoe, an onion (peeled, and sliced_ thin) pep- per, and salt, simmer these ingredients for two hours gently. Calf’s Head.—Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender, then strew it over with bread crumbs and parsley chopped, and brown it. Serve with bacon and greens. Boil the brains, and mix tliem with melted butter, scald- ed sgge chopped, pepper and salt; lay them on a dish, and the tongue in the middle. Calf’s Head d la Bourgeoise.* Cleanse and scald a fine calf’s head, skin it carefully, then take out the brains, tongue and eyes, and cut the cheeks from the bones ; make a force-meat with the brains, some fillet of veal, beef suet, salt, pepper, shred parsley, green onions, thyme, basil, half a bay leaf, two spoons- ful of brandy and three eggs. _ Then parboil tbe tongue, eyes (having re- moved the black part), and the cheeks, hash them, and put them with the force- meat into tlie skin which was taken from the head, sew it up, and shape it to its natural form ; put it in a vessel just large enough to hold it, with half a pint of white wine, a pint of stock, parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, pepper and salt. Stew it gently for three hours, drain off the fat and dry it, and take out the thread. Strain tlie liquor it was stewed in, and add to it some cnllis and a little vinegar, reduce it and pour it over the head. Serve it on a napkin. Tliis may he brouglit to table cold ; it must then be stewed witli more wliite wine, and less stock. Calf’s Head Collared.—Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and ukc out the brains. Boil tender enougli to remove the bones; then liave ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, inace,106 CAL CAL nutmeg, salt and white pepper well mixed; season it high with these ; put a thick layer of parsley, then a quantity of thick slices of ham, or a fine coloured tongue skinned, and the yolks of six eg^s stuck about in it. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can, put a cloth round, and tie it with tape, Boil, and then lay a weight on it. Calf’s Head Collared like Brawn.— Scald tlie head till the hair comes clean oil', then cut it in two, and take out the brains and eyes. Wash it perfectly clean, and boil it till the bones come out. Slice the tongue and ears, and lay them all even. Throw a handful of salt on them, and roll it up quite close, as other col- lars. Boil it two hours. When cold lay it in a brawn pickle. Calf’s Head d la DHiller.*—Take a very delicate calf's heady, bone, soak, and blanch it; take out the brains, and let them soak also ; boil in a hlanc for three quarters of an hour. When the head is cold, dry it in a cloth, singe, and cut it in pieces, leaving the eyes and ears whole ; collect the pieces and tie them so that they keep the original shape, rub it with lemon, and boil it for three hours \na.blanc; then take it out, untie and dish it, place the brains at each end of the dish, and cut the tongue into square pieces the size of dice, and put them into a sauce made as follows ; put a ladle full oi espagriole., half a bottle of white wine, six allspice bruised, and six spoonsful of consomme, reduce these to half, and then put in the pieces of tongue, some mush- rooms and gherkins cutinto littlesticks ; pour this sauce over the head. Calf’s Head, the Dutch fVay.—Lay half a pound of Spanish pease in water for twelve hours : then mix them with a pound of whole rice, and having put a calf’s head, properly prepared, into a deep dish, lay the pease and rice round i t; pour two quarts of water over, season it with pepper and salt, colour it with safl'ron, and bake it. Calf’s Head, {Old Fashion.) — Boil the head till the tongue will peel; then divide the head, and cut the meat from one half into pieces the size of oysters, (setting the brains aside) and stew them in strong gravy, and a quarter of a pint of claret, a lemon peel, a bunch of sweet lierbs, a little sliced onion and nutmeg; stew these tender. In the mean time slash the other half head, lard it, wash it over with yolks of eggs, strew over it grated bread, sweet herbs, and lemon- peel, and broil it; when done lay it on a dish, and having added to the stewed meat a pint of gravy, three anchoviee, mushrooms, capers, butter, and a pint of stewed oysters, pour them round the broiled head. Garnish it with the tongue cut into thin round slices, the brains in i cakes, bacon, oysters and force-meat balls, all nicely fried; barberries and I horse-radish laid on theedgeof the dish, and serve it up. Calf’s Head Fried.*—Cut a cold calfs head into middling sized pieces, and put into a jar; pour on them a marinade; when they have thoroughly imbibed the flavour, drain them, dip each piece in u batter, and fry them. Do not let the oil or lard they are fried in be too hot. Calf’s Head, German IFuy.—Take a , large calf’s head, with great part of the i peck cut with it; split it in half, blanch it, and take out the jaw-bone. Lay . slices of bacon at the bottom of the stew- • pan, then thin beef-steaks, with pepper and salt; put in the head, pour beef gravy over it; add a large onion, stuck I with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it close, and let it stew on a stove. Make a ragoflt, with a quart of beef ! gravy, half a pint of red wine, some i sweetbreads parboiled, and cut in slices, i some cock’s-combs, oysters, mushrooms, ' truffles and morels; stew them till ten- der. When the head is done, put it in a dish, take out the brains, the eyes, and the bones; slit the tongue, cut it into small pieces, do the same with the eyes, and chop the brains; put these into a baking-dish, and pour some of the ragofit over them; then put the head, and pour i the rest of the ragoflt over it, and melted I butter, and over that, scraped Parmesan i cheese. Colour it a fine brown in the i oven. Calf’s Head hashed.—Boil the liead ' almost enough, and take the meat of the i best side neatly from the bone, and lay it in a small dish ; wash it over with the i yolks of two eggs, and cover it with ' crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, all mixed : together previously. Set the dish before ' the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts may lie equally ■ brown. In the mean time slice the re- i mainder of the head, and the tongue, i (peeled); put a pint of good gravy into i a pan, wi^h an onion, a small bunch of herbs, (consisting of parsley, basil, sa- vory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt and cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor; boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which must be sprinkled with flour. Add some fresh or pickled mushrooms, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketsup; lieat up half the brains, and put them to the rest, with a bit of butter and flour.( 107 ) CAL CAL Simmer tlie whole. Beut the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and niaee, some parsley shred, and an egg; fry tliis in little cakes of a fine gold colour; dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and Iry the same way, also some good forcemeat-balls, and garnish the dish with them. Calf’s Head d la Sainte Menehoutt*— Take out the jaws, and cut off the snout close to the eyes; put it in a stewpan over the fire, and when you have skim- med it quite clean, add to it parsley, onions, garlic, cloves, a laurel leaf, thyme, basil, salt and pepper. When done, take out the bones that are over the brains, place it on a dish, with the following sauce: mix a piece of butter the size of an egg, with some flour, salt, pepper, the yolks of three eggs, two spoonsful of vinegar, and half a glass of stock; thicken these over the fire. When this is done, pour it on the head, cover it with bread crumbs, baste it with butter; brown it with a Salamander ; drain the fat from it, and serve with sauce pi- guante. Calf’s Head Pie.—Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a little isinglass, or a calf’s foot, a bunch of herbs, mace, salt and pepper, in three pints of water: keep this, when very good, to put in the pie. Half boil a head, and cut it into square bits; put a layer of ham at the bottom of the dish, then some head, first fat and then lean, with forcemeat balls and hard eggs, cut in half, then ham, and so on, till the dish be full; the pieces must not be too close : season to your taste, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Pour in some of the above- mentioned broth, and cover it with crust; bake it in a slow oven ; and when done, pour into it as much broth as it will pos- sibly hold, and do not cut it till quite cold. /This pie may be eaten hot, if seasoned high, and with the addition of mushrooms, truffles, morels, &c. Calf's Head d la Poivrade.—Bone a scalded head as far as the eyes, and boil it with some pickled pork, both of which, when done, must be served in the same dish: boil half a glass of vinegar, the same of stock, chopped shaiots, and whole onions; strain it, and add pepper and salt; pour this over the head, and serve with sauce a la poivrade. Calf’s Head d la Paulette.*—Toss up some sweet herbs in a little butter, then add to them a little stock, salt, and pep- per; boil these a quarter of an hour: having cut a calf’s head in pieces, as for frying; put them into the sauce, and boil them slowly, till hot; just before serv- mg, putin two or three eggs, and stir it till thick i be careful not to let it boil, ] after the eggs are added. Serve with a little lemon-juice or vinegar. Calf’s Head an Putts Certain.*—Take I the meat from a calf’s head, leaving on the eyes and the brains; soak it well; take off the end of the snout, the cheek-bones, and tliose of the tongue; put the head into cold water; and when it has boiled once,hake it offi drain, and cool it. Cut the meat into round pieces, the size of a crown piece, (leave the tongue and ears whole), rub each bit with lemon, and boil them in a blanc, wrap the bones in a cloth, and_ put that in also; in proper time take it out, drain and lay it on a plate: open the head, clean the brain, and fill it with some quenelles of veal, mixed with mushrooms, sweetbreads and truffles, cut in dice ; arrange this stuffing so as to make the head its original form ; wrap it in a pig’s caul, and bake it. VVhen done, place it in the middle of a dish, with the ears and pieces of tongue round. Serve it with a good financiire, with Cray fish, and pimento butter. CA\.T’sHead Roasted.—Cleanse thehead well; bone, and dry it. Make a season- ing of pepper, salt, beaten mace, nutmeg, cloves, some fat bacon, cut very small, and grated ; strew it over the head, rol 1 it up, skewer, and tie it with tape. Roast and baste it with butter. Make a rich veal gravy, thickened with butter rolled in flour; you may add mushrooms and oysters. Serve the head with this sauce. Calf’s Head roasted with Oysters — Prepare a head as for boiling; take out the tonirue and brains, parboil them ; blanch the tongue, and mince both with a little sage, beef suet or marrow, a few oysters, four or five egg yolks beaten, salt, pepper, ginger, nutmeg, and grated bread; parboil and dry the head; fill the skull and moutii with the above ingre- dients, and oysters, tie it up, and roast it; preserve its gravy, and put it, with some white wine, nutmeg, oysters, and , sweet herbs minced, over a chafing dish ; , add butter, lemon-juice and salt, beat it up thick ; dish the head, and serve it with the sauce over it. Calf’s Head Soused.—Scald and bone f ® head, and soak it for seven or eight hours, changing the water twice ; dry It well. Season with salt and bruised ."P, bind it very tight, and boil It in white wine, salt and water; when done, put it, with the liquor, in a pan, and keep it for use. Serve up either ' whole, or in slices, with oil, vinegar, and pepper. Calf’s Head Stewed.*—Wash a calf’s head perfectly clean for an hour, in water, and then bone it with the greatest care;CAL CAL ( 108 ) take out the touBue and eyes; chop up two pounds of veal, and the same of beef- suet, thyme, lemon-peel, and two anclio- vies, with a nutmeg, and two stale rolls grated; mix these together, with the yolks of four eggs, a pint of fresh mushrooms, the yolks of six eggs chopped, and half a pint of stewed oysters; put this force- meat into the head, close, and tie it up tight. Put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of gravy, and a little mace ; cover the pan close, and let it stew for two Jaours. In the mean time, heat up the brains with shred parsley, lemon-peel, half a nutmeg grated, and the yolk of an egg; fry half these in little cakes, with the forcemeat balls, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy the head was boiled in, and boil it with half an ounce of truffles and morels, and a few mushrooms ; add the remainder of the brains, stew all together for a minute or two, then pour it over the head, and lay the fried brains and forcemeat balls round; fry a few oysters, and place them on the head. Garnish with lemon. i Calf’s Head Slvffed.*—Bone a calf’s head with great care, let the eyes remain in their proper places; soak it, and then having blanched it, lay it in cold water; dry and singe it. Make some godiveau, and when about three parts done, put in two spoonsful of reduced velouiS, and rather more spice, shred parsley, and shalots, than usual. Fill the head with this, and press it into its original form, sew it up, and ruh it all over with lemon. Take a clean fine cloth, spread thin slices of bacon over it, lay the bead in them; wrap the cloth round, and lie it up tight. Put it into a braising-pan, take a bit of butter, some grated bacon, four cariots, five onions, three cloves, three bay- leaves, a little thyme, two lemons sliced, leaving out the seeds and the white; do these over the fire, and when they be- come dry, moisten them with two bottles of white wine: add salt and pepper; boil this sauce, and put it into the brais- ing-pan with the head, which should sim- mer for three hours, with fire above and be- low ; at the end of that lime feel the head with your finger, and if it be still firm, let it remain some time longer; when sulli- cientlydone, take it out by the ends of the cloth, untie.and let it drain. Dish it,and pour on it the following ragofii: put four ladiesful of grande espaguole, a bottle of white wine, and t»vo ladiesful of con- somme into a saucepan, and reduce them to half, then strain it into anothei sauce- pan, in which are some balls of godiveau^ artichokes cooked in a ljlanc, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut in pieces, and cray-fish ; keep this hot until the head should be sent to table, when the ragoCit must be poured over it. Calf’s Head Surprise.—Raise the skin, and <18 much meat as you can from half a calf’s head ; make a forcemeat as follows: beat up in a mortar half a pound of veal, a pound of beef suet, lialf a pound of fat bacon, the crumb of a small loaf, sweet herbs, shred parsley, cloves, nutmeg, mace, salt, and cayenne pepper, bind these together with the yolks of four ! eggs; stuff the skin with this, so that it | may appear as if the bones were in ; tie and skewer it tight, and put it into a deep pan, with two quarts of water, half a pint of white wine, a little mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two spoonsful of walnut and mushroom ketsiip, the same of lemon-pickle, salt, and pepper; cover the whole with a common paste, and bake it in a quick oven. When done, hiy the head in a soup-dish ; take the fat ; from the gravy, and strain it into a stew- pan ; add to it a bit of butter, rolled in i flour, and when it has boiled a few mi- nutes, the yolks of four eggs, and half a pint of cream ; pour this over the head. Garnish with boiled forcemeat balls, truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Calf’s Head auVerd Galant.—Soak the head twenty-four hours, bone and : scald it in boiling water; then boil it in i vinegar and water, with roots, herbs, and spices; cut it in pieces, roll it in batter made of oil, white wine, salt and parsley, and fry of a good colour, and crisp. Serve with fried parsley. Calf’s Heart Roasted.—YiW the heart with the following forcemeat: a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, chopped small, grated bread, parsley, marjoram, lemon- peel, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg. Lay a veal-caul, or a_ sheet of paper on the stuffing to keep it in its place. Put the heart into a Duch oven, before a clear fire, and turn it frequently, till thoroughly roasted all round. Gar- I n'sh with slices of lemon, and pour melt- 1 cd butler over it. Calf’s Liver en Balottes*—Mince and i season a calf’s liver. Soak a calf's caul I orchaudron in hot water till soft, and then I cut it into sm.all square pieces, in each I of which put some of the minced liver, I about equal to the size of a hen’s egg: i draw up the corners of the caul, and i make them into balls. Wash them over ' with white of egg; strew bread crumbs over, and broil them. Calf’s Liver d la nourgeoise.*~Cat. a calf’s liver into slices, and nut it into a pan with some chopped shalots, a bit of butter, salt, pepper; stew it gently. When re.ady to serve, put in a spoonful of vinegar.CAL 109 1 CAL Calf’s lAver d la Bourgeoisp.—Cut a calf’s liver in slices, ami put it in a stew- pan, with shalot, parsley, and preen onions, cut small, and a piece of butter ; shake it over the lire, and dredge in a little flour; moisten with a tumblerful of water, and as inuch of white wine, salt and pepper { boil it for half an hour. When quite done, and the sauce nearly consumed, put in the yolks of three eggs, previously beaten with two spoonsful of vinegar; thicken it over the fire, and serve. i Ibid, Third /Fay.—Lard a calf’s liver I with bacon, previously rolled in shred parsley, salt and pepper. Make a rotta; i with some butter, flour, stock, a bunch ;j ef sweet herbs, a few carrots, rind of ) bacon, pepper and salt. Boil this for 4 two hours, and then put in the liver, with a glass of red wine; another hour wdll j do it. Strain the sauce oyer it before you serve. Calf’s Liver d la Bruise.*—Lard a calf’s liver with bacon, seasoned with i garlic, fine herbs, salt and pepper. Put it intoa stewpan, with a quarter of a pint 1 of water, some slices of bacon, part of a I calf’s foot, a bunch of parsley, onions. thyme, and bay leaves, salt, pepper, and 1 spices, an onion stuck with cloves, and lialf a glass of wine. Cover the stewpan perfectly close. When it begins to boil, cover the fire with hot cinders, and let the liver continue stewing gently by it for three or four hours. To prevent its burning, lay sticks across the bottom of the pan, and put the liver on it; strain ofl'the fat, and strain the sauce. Serve cold, in its own jelly. Calf’s Liver d la Brochette.*—Cut a calPs liver into slices, about the size of a crown piece, cut some bacon in the same rnanner; place them alternately (be- ginning with the bacon) on skewers, seven or eight inches long. Dip them into hot broth or soup; sprinkle them with bread crumbs, and broil ttiem of a gold colour. Calf’s Liver Broiled.—Slice it, sea- son with pepper and salt, and broil nicely; rub a bit of cold butter on it, , and serve hot and hot. Calf’s Liver Cake.*—Mince' and pound together a calf’s liver, half a pound of suet, and half a pound of bacon ; then mix them with some chopped onions and mushrooms, tossed up in butter, the I yolks of six eggs, the whites well whisked, salt, pepper, and a glass of brandy. Line an iron saucepan with slices of bacon, place the above preparation, and some sliced truffles on them, and cover the I whole with bacon ; put the saucepan on ! a gentle fire, with ashes on the lid. When done, take it ofl, let it cool in the saucepan. Dip it in boiling water, loosen the cake, turn it on a dish, and remove the bacon from it; sprinkle it with rasp- ings, and serve it. Calf’s Liver Cake Cold.*—Pound a calf’s liver, an equal quantity of bacon, and a fourth part of boiled ham, pass them through a quenelles sieve, into a pan with a cold boiled calf’s udder, an equal pro- portion of tongue d Vecarlate, truffles, and mushrooms, cut into dice; mix with them eight eggs, a glass of brandy, and season the whole with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Finish your cake as above, and bake it four hours in a moderate oven. Let it cool before you turn it out; remove the bacon, trim and glaze the cake with veal jelly; with which garnish your cake. Calf’s Liver Cake Hot.*—Pound a calf’s liver, and an equal quantity of calf’s udder, as above, put them into a pan; cut some onion into dice, scald and loss it up in a little butter and consomme, and when cold, mix it with the liver, udder, mushrooms, truffles, and more udder cut in dice; stir in eight eggs, one at a time ; the whole being well mixed, put it into a plain round mould, well buttered, cover it with a round piece of buttered paper, and let it stand in a hain marie with hot asiies under and over, for two hours. When ready to serve, turn it on the dish for table, drain away the water, glaze it. Serve it hot, with a pepper sauce. Calf’s Liver en Crepine.*—Cut two large onions into dice, and toss them over the fire with a bit of butter, mince a calf’s liver, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; then put them into a mortar, with the onions, some dried bread crumbs, half a pint of milk, salt, pepper, mushroom, four yolks of eggs, and four whites whipt, pound these together well. Place slices of bacon on the bottom of a stewpan, and over them a pig’s caul, pre- viously soaked in cold water, squeezed quite dry with the hand, put all the pounded materials in this, wet the edges with white of egg to make them unite; place a sheet of paper over it, and cover the pan close; stew it gently in hot cin- ders for half an hour, then drain the fat from it, wipe the caul carefully with a linen cloth, and then place it in yoiu* dish, serve with clear sauce, adding to it a little verjuice. Calf’s Liver d I’Etouffi *—Lard a fine calf s liver, and soak it in white wine for a day. Line a stewpan with thin slices of bacon and beef; put in salt, pepper, fine herbs, spices, sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, scallions, parsley, chopped, putcal ( no ) c A L the lireron thiii, and cover it in the fame manner ; moiiiien it with stock, and two glasses ol white wine; you may add slices of lemon, stew it gently, with lire above and below. When done, serve with it gherkins, a ragoftt of ciscumbers, or en- dive. Calf’s Liver Haslets.—QmH the liver in pretty large pieces, marinate it with butter, pepper, salt, and sweet herbs, chopped; leave it some time over a very slow fire, then .'Oll several pieces in veal caul, with as much sauce as possible; tie it upon a large skewer, with thin slices of bacon round, and roast. Serve it with any relishing :auce. CalfIs Liver a VItalienne.*—Cut a calf's liver in thin slices, with parsley, scallions, mushrooms, half a clove of garlic, two shallots, all chopped fine, half a bay leaf, thyme, basil pounded. Put a layer of the liver at the bottom of a stew- pan, then salt, pepper, oil, and some of the above seasoning, then another layer of liver, season as before, and so on till you have used all your liver. Stew it for about an hour, and then take it out with a skimmer; clear away the fat from the sauce, and put in a bit of butter, and a little verjuice or vinegar, thicken it over the fire, stirring it constantly. Put the liver into this to heat it again, and then serve. Calf’s Livre d la Mariniere.*—Cut a calf’s liver into thick slices; brown them in a pan with a little butter ; turn them that both sides may be well coloured: then add pepper, salt, tarragon, and herbs; dredge flour over them, and moisten with wdne ; boil it a few minutes, and place it on a very hot dish. Garnish with mushrooms, truffles, and morels or capers. Calf’s Liver en Potrpt'e.*—Prepare the liver as for en Balottes, only form them into balls the size of a walnut; flatten them to the thickness of half an inch, wash them with white of egg, and bread them. Put them on skewers like haslets, with bacon between. Roast or bake a quarter of an hour. Calf’s Liver Puddings.—CvA part of a calf’s liver into dice, mince the rest with hog’s fat (one-third more), season with salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, cinnamon and cloves pounded, and sweet herbs; bind them with the yolks of six eggs, ai d a quart of cream: put them into skins, like black puddings, and boil them over a slow fire in wliite wine, with salt and bay leaves; let them cool in this liquor, and when wanted, broil, and serve them very hot. Calf's Liver Rortifei/.—Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and stull it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg ; sew the liver up ; lard it, wrap it in a veal caul, and roast it. Serve with good brown gravy and currant jelly. Another way .*—Lard acalf’s liver with streaky bacon; roast and baste it fre- quently with its own gravy. Third way.*—LarU a fine calPs liver, and pickle it in vinegar, with an onion, cut into slices, parsley, salt, pepper, thyme, and a bay leaf. When it has been soaked for twenty-four hours, fasten it on a spit, roast, and ba^te it frequently. Glaze it with a light glaze, as it is na- turally of a black colour. &rve under it a brown poivrude. Calf’s Liver Sausages.—These are made in the same way as other sausages. The meat used gives the name. _ Calf’s Liver Saute.* — Cut a calf’s liver in slices, about a quarter of an inch thick, and make each slice ol an oval form, when thus prepared, season them with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet lierbs ; put half a pound of butter into your tossing-pan and warm it, then lay in your liver, and as soon as one side is brown, turn it and do the other ; when all are done, put them into a saucepan, take the butter from the tos.=ing-pan, ana put into it a glass of champagne, four iadlesful of espagnote, reduce them to half, strain it over your liver, and heat (without boiling) the whole together. Dish the liver en couronne, and pour the sauce over. Calf’s Liver Scolloped.—Take a very nice white liver, cut it in slices, pared in the shape of hearts. Then stew some fine herbs, parsley, shalots, and mush- rooms, for a little time; toss up the liver in it. over a gentle fire, season it, and when done on one side, turn it on the other. Dish the liver; put a little flour with the herbs, moisten them with a little gravy and broth, and let them stew for ten minutes. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and cover the liver that you have dished en mirofon. Calf's Liver Stewed.*—Cnt a very good calf’s liver into slices an inch thick, melt some butter in a frying-pan, and then put in the liver, and brown it well on both sides, season it well. Take it from the pan, and set it to stew with the butter, and chopped parsley, scallions, shalots. garlic, and a little flour; moisten it with half a pint of wine; give the sauce a boil, and when ready to serve, add a little vinegar. Calf’s Liver Stuffed.*—Tdkc a very fine calf’s liver, at:d lard it with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with four sortsSmall, a few crumbs, some pepper, salt, liquor, and put four spoonsful of it with one of them stuck with cloves, three over the fire, and when ready to serve, the sauce a ladleful ol veloute, and when toss them up in some butter, taking care ( 111 ) CAN in pieces, in a little butter, and having scald and blanch them; cut, and boil CAL of spice, pcpner, salt, shred parsley, and onions: lay slices of bacon at the bottom, and round, a braising or stewpan, put in the liver, with four carrots, four onions, bay leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, salt, and a bottle of white wine, cover it with bacon and paper, and place it over a stove; when It boils, cover the stove, put the pan on again with ashes on the lid, let it simmer for two hours. When done, strain the four of poivrade, reduce them to half, and pour this sauce over the liver. Calf’s Pluck d la Bourgeoise,—The pluck comprehends the heart, the lights, and spleen, cut these in pieces, soak them well incoldwater,and blanchthem; then put them in a stewpan, a little butter, and a bunch of sweet herbs, add a little flour, ahd moisten with stock. When done, and well flavoured, put to it the yolks of three eggs, diluted with milk, thicken it put in a little verjuice. Jlnolher way.—Boil the lights and part of the liver, roast the heart stuffed with Suet, sweet herbs, parsley, all chopped nutmeg, and a little lemon peel; mix it with the yolk of an egg. When the lights and liver are boiled, chop them very small, and put them in a saucepan with a bit of butter rolled in flour, some pepper and salt, with a little vinegar or Iemon*juice; fry the other part of the liver with some slices of bacon, lay the mince at the bottom, the heart in the middle, the fried liver and bacon round, with crisped parsley. Serve with plain butter. Calf’s Tails.—Must always be scald- ed ; if for fricandeauso^ lard and braise them; they may then be served with any sauce, and in any way you choose. Calf’s Tailsau Blanc.*—Prepare some calf’s tails as en^ Terrine., and having mixed the flour with them, moisten with water; put to them a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay leaves, mush- rooms, salt and a little pepper; skim as directed in the above-mentioned re- ceipt; add some small onions, and let it simmer, but not boil. When ready to serve, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs. This ragofit may be made brown as well as white; it is coloured mtharoux. Calf’s Tui/s and Cabbages. — Scald calves’ tails and pickled pork, scald also a good Savoy for about half an hour; take it out, press all the water from it, cut it in quarters, tie it, and braise all together m slock, with slices of bacon, spices, and herbs. When done, take them out, j and clear away the fat. Serve with good thick cullis. Calf’s Tails en Macedoine.*— eight calves’ tails with their skins on, them in Madeira wine; when done, drain, and put them on the table-dish: garnish with veal sweetbreads d la jlamande, onions glazed, and mask each piece of the tails very carefully with a Macedoine. Cap’s Tails en Terrine.* — Divide seven or eight calves’ tails at the joints, not to colour them ; then add four small spoonsful of flour, mix them well, and put in four ladiesful of consomme, and stir the ragofit till it boils, skim it well; put to it a small basket of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and some scallions. When it is about three parts done, skim off all the fat, and when quite done, take out the pieces of tails, and the mush- rooms, with a spoon with holes in it, and put them in another saucepan; add to properly reduced strain it over the tails; poach some veal quenelles, put them into your tureen ; toss up some shoulder of veal kernels, and veal sweetbreads cut drained, put them also into the tureen. Thicken your ragofit with five yolks of eggs, stir them in ever the stove, but do not let it boil; as soon as you find it sufficiently thick, pour it into the tureen, over the quenelle, and other articles, which must be kept hot. Calf’s Tongue.*—Must hang till ten- der; lard and season it moderately, and boil it. They may be dressed in any form, and served with what sauce you please. Calf’s Tongues au Miroton.*—Prepare and lard as above, braise tliem. When done, and cold, cut them in slices, put them in a stewpan, with mushrooms and sweet herbs, moistened ndth veal gravy, or blond, when done, add a little vinegar. Calf’s Tongue, with Sauce Piquasite.* —Soak eight calves’ tongues, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour: then coo], trim, and lard them with well-seasoned bacon. Put the tongues in a braise, or stew them with carrots, onions, cloves, thyme, bay leaves, and a ladleful of stock. T^ljey will require three hours cooking. When done, take offthe skins, glaze,and place them round a dish, with an oval crouton in the centre. Serve with sauce piquante. CANAPES."* — Cut some slices of bread about an inch thick, and having taken off the crusts, form the crumb into whatever shapes you may think proper ; such as hearts, squares, lozenges, &c.; L 2CAN ( 112) CAN fry them in good olive oil, to a nice co- lour, and drain them. Take some an- chovies, hard eggs, (tlie yolks and whites separate), gherkins, capers, &c. chop them small, place them on the fried oread, (having previously seasoned them with salt and vinegar), and pour over the whole, and serve this as a side dish. Canapes.*—Roll out three (juarters of a pound of pufl-paste, keeping it long and narrow; uo not let it be more than a quarter of an inch thick, and aboufthree inches wide. Cut the paste across with a sharp knife, in slips tliree-eighths of an inch in width, and_ place them on the cut side, on a baking-plate, each two inches apart; bake them in a hot oven, and when nicely coloured, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them. When done, remove them from the plate; and just before they are served, mask them with apricot marmalade, or any other you may like better, and arrange them on your dish en couronne. Canapes with Pistachios,*—Make the canapis according to the above direc- tions. When glazed, whip up the white of an egg with an ounce of fine sugar; cover the ca?iapts with this, and then mask them with pistachio nuts, chopped small. Garnish them with apple-jelly. The canapes may be glazed and masked with any sort of sweetmeat or jelly you may think proper to use. CANAPIES.—Cut some pieces of the crumb of bread about four inches long, three inches wide, and one inch thick, fry them in boiling lard, till of a light brown colour; then put them on a drainer, and cut into slips some breast of fowl, anchovies picked from the bone, pickled cucumbers, and ham or tongue. Then butter the pieces of bread on one side, and lay upon them alternately the different articles, till filled. Trim the edges, and put the pieces (cut into what form you please) upon a dish, with slices of lemon round the rim ; and serve in a sauce-boat, a little mixture of oil, vine- gar, cayenne pepper, and salt. CANARY [Artificial). — Fill a cask that has contained good Malaga wine with spring-water, and for each gallon of water, put six pounds of Malaga raisins bruised, and over every twenty gallons, sprinkle a handful of calx-wine. Close the cask; cover it with cloths, and let it stand four or five days in a warm place to ferment; then open it, and should the raisins float, press them down ; cover it again, and let it stand a month, looking at it, and pressing down the raisins as above, every four or five days. At the month’s end, tap the vessel a few inches above the bottom, and if the liquor is properly flavoured, draw it off into another Malaga cask; and to every twenty gallons add a pint of brandy, a quart of Alicant wine, two eggs well beaten, and let it stand till fit for drink- ing. A little loaf-sugar may be added if not sufficiently sweet. Put into the whole a small quantity of white wine, or good cider, to make it brisk. CANDYING.— Fruit intended for candying must be first preserved, and dried in a stove before the fire, that none of the syrup may remain in it. Sugar intended for the use of candying must be thus prepared : put into a tossing-pan a pound ot sugar, with half a pint of water, and set it over a very clear fire. Take off' the scum as it rises; boil it till it jooks clear and fine, and take out a little in a silver spoon. When it is cold, if it will draw a thread from your spoon, it is boiled enough for any kind of sweetmeat, ■rhen boil your syrup, and when it be- gins to candy round the edge of your pan, it is candy height. It is a great mistake to put any kind of sweetmeat into too thick a syrup, especially at the first, as it withers the fruit, and both the beauty and flavour are thereby destroyed. Candv [to), Flowers.—Take the best treble-refined sugar, break it into lumps, and dip It piece by piece into water; put them into a vessel of silver, and melt them over the fire; when it just boils, strain it, and set it on the fire again, and let it boil till it draws in hairs, which you may perceive by holding up your spoon ; then put in the flowers, and set them in cups or glasses. When it is of a bard candy, break it in lumps, and lay it as high as you please. Dry it in a stove, or in the sun, and it will look like sugar-candy. Candy [all Sorts of Fruit). — When finished in thesyrup,DUtalayerintoanew sauce, and dip itsudaenly into hot water, to take off"the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some mere on the sieve. Have ready-sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides, till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of the sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. CANELLONS.—Make a stiff paste, with a little melted butter, a spoonful or two of water, some rasped lemon-peel. an egg, a quarter of a pound of flour, and half that quantity of sugar; roll it very thin ; make a little cane of card-paper, butter it well on the outside, and » rap it in some of the paste; bake it a few mi- nutes; take out the card, and fill the113) CAP CAN paste with currant jelly,or any other jelly or sweetmeat you please. Cannellojjs Fried.*—Roll out some pufl-paste very thin and long-, moisten the sjirface lightly, and place along it, at equal -distances, small ouantities of apri- cot, peach, or any other marmalade; spread it about two inches and a half long, but not more than half an inch in width; turn the remainder of the paste over, press down the edges, then cut the cannellons, leaving a quarter of an inch beyond the marmalade each way; press the paste together all round, to keep in the preserve; and when all are cut, put them into a pan and fry them; when done, drain them in a napkin, and sprin- kle them with powder-sugar. Caxnellons Glacis.—Roll out some pufF-paste thin, and about eighteen inches square, and cut it into twenty- four strips; have by you as many pieces of beech-wood turned, about six inches long, aqd three quarters of an inch in diameter, a degree less at one end than at the other. Butter these pieces _ of wood, and having moistened your strips of paste, wind one round each of them, beginning at the smallest endj so as to form a sort of screw, four inches in length; lay them on baking-plates, pretty distant from each other, dorez and put them into a hot oven. When of a nice colour, sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze; as soon as you re- move them from the oven, take out the pieces of wood, and lay them on a cool slab. When wanted for ta.tde, fill them with apple or any other jelly you may chuse. Cannellons Meringues* — Whip the whites of two eggs, and having mixed them with two spoonsful of powder- sugar, then mask the cannellons; when baked, crush a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and roll the cannellons in it; re- place them a few minutes in the oven, and then finish. The masking of these cannellons may be varied according to taste, with pistachios, dried currants, &o. the former cut in pieces, the latter well washed, dried and mixed with an equal quantity of sugar. Cannellons d la Parisienne.*—Make twenty pannequets, garnish them with apricot or quince marmalade; roll them as usual, and then cut each in half, trim, and dip them in eggs, like croquettes, bread and fry them. When done, glaze and serve them immediately. These cannellons may also be covered with creams, or preserves of any kind you please. Cannellons Pralimswith Filberts.*— Wince a quarter of a pound of filberts, and mix them with two ounces of powder sugar, and a very little white of egg: prepare the cannellons ns above; just before you put them into the oven, roll them in the filberts, so*as to cover them with that mixture ; take care to return each to its place on the baking-plate; put them in a moderate oven, and colour them a good yellow. Finish as above. Cannellons with Sugar.* — Prepare the cannellons as usual, roll them in grained sugar, and finish. CAPERS, To Pickle.—The tree that bears capei-s is called the caper shrub or bush, of which they are the flower-buds. They are common in the western parts of Europe, and we have them in some of our gardens ; but Toulon is the principal place for them. Some are sent us from Lyons, but they are flatter, and not so firm. Some come from Majorca, but they are salt and disagreeable. They gather the buds from the blossoms before they open, then spread themmpon the floor of a room where no sun enters, and there let them lie till they begin to wither. They then throw them into a tub of sharp vinegar, and after three days, they add a quantity of bay-salt. When this is dissolved, they are fit for packing, and are sent to all parts of Europe. The finest capers are those of a moderate size, firm, and close, and such as have thej.pickle highly flavoured. Those which are soft, flabby, and half open, are of little value. Capeus, Fine and Coarse.*—The fine capers are made use of in garnishing dressed salads, and to put whole into sauces; the coarser sorts are used in sauces where it is necessary to chop up the capers. Caper Sauce for Fish. — Take Some inelted butter, into which throw a small bit of glaze; and when the sauce is in a state of readiness, throw into it some choice capers, salt, and pepper, and a spoonful of essence of anchovies. Caper Sauqe d la Franqoise.—Take some capers, cut_ them small; put some essence of ham into a small saucepan, with a little pepper; let it boil, then put in the capers ; let them boil up two or three times, and pour into a boat. Caper Sauce (to imitate),—Boil some parsley very slowly, to let it become of a bad colour, then cut it up, (but do not chop It fine); put it into melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Boil up, and then serve. Caper Sauce for Meat.—Take some capers, chop half of tliein very fine, and put the rest in whole. Then chop some parsley with a little grated bread, and L o( 114 ) C A P CAP put to it some salt. Put them into but- ter, melted very smooth ; let them boil up, and then pour them into a sauce- boat. Caper Sauce fqr Meat.—Having some butter sauce made hot, mix in a lew chopped capers, with one squeeze of lemon-juice ; melted butter will make the same, but of an inferior kind. CAPILLAIRE, To Make.—Take four- teen pounds of sugar, three pounds of coarse sugar, six eggs beat in with the shells, three quarts of water; boil it up twice; skim it well, then add to it a quarter of a pint of orange-flower water; strain it tlirough a jelly-bajj, and pul it into bottles; when cold, mix a spoonful or two of this syrup, as it is liked for sweetness in a draught of warm or cold water. Capillaire, Synip o/.*—The capil- laire of Canada, although that of Mont- pellier is equally good, is a very odo- riferous vegetable, light and agreeable, but so extremely volatile, that the greatest part of it is dissipated during the preparation of the syrup. To pre- serve then the odour of the capillaire, when your syrup is sufficiently done, pour it, whilst boiling, upon some fresh capillaire coarsely chopped up; then cover your vessel, and let it stand until it is quite cold, then pass it through a bolting-cloth to separate it from the leaves of the capillaire. - Take one ounce of the capillaire from Canada; put it into a glazed pan, pour upon it four pints of boiling water, leave it to infuse tor twelve hours over some warm ashes; strain it and let it run into a vessel, it will give you a strong tinc- ture of capillaire; melt in this tincture four pounds of sugar, put the whole into a preserving-pan, and put it on the fire, and clarify it with the white of an egg, continue the cooking; when your syrup is perle, put some fresh capillaire, chop- ped, into a pan, and pour your syrup, whilst boiling, upon it; cover your pan carefully, and let it cool ; when your syrup is cold, you may flavour it if you please. Put it into bottles, and cork them hermetically. Capillaire, Syrup of.*—Take some good capillaire, chop it up, not very small, put it upon a sieve ; pour upon it some boiling water, and then let it in- fuse for ten hours in a vessel well co- vered ; strain this infusiqn, and put into it some sugar boiled au casst; clarify this syrup with the whites of eggs whipped; skim it till it is very clear: when it rises, take it oITthe fire, and leave it to cool, then put it into bot- tles. Viard and Beauvilliers, whose receipts are nearly the same, boil their capillaire for a quarter of an hour in river-water; after having passed this boifing through a sieve, they put into it some powder- sugar, and clanfy their syrup with water, or a whole egg beaten up; then skim it, and when it is very clear and has boiled au lisse, they take it ofl' the fire, and put into it_ some orange-flower water, and strain it through a napkin or straining- bag, leaving it to cool before putting it into bottles. For three pints and a half of syrup, you must use two good ounces of ca- pillaire, four pints of water, and four pounds of sugar, powder-sugar is the best, as it prevents syrups from candy- ing. Capillaire, Syrup of.—Put an ounce of the leaves of the herb called Maiden- hair, for a moment, into boiling water ; take them out, and put them in a little tepid water, leaving them to infuse for at least twelve hours upon hot embers; then strain them through a sieve ; next put a pound of sugar into a saucepan, with a good glass of water; boil it to the same degree as for syrup of violets, then put to it the capillaire, or Maiden-hair water, not suftering it to boil; take it ofi'the lire as soon as it is well mixed with the sugar; put it into an earthen an closely covered, and set the pan, uring three days, over hot embers, keeping the heat as equal as you can, but not too violent. When the syrup will extend into a strong thread between your fingers, put it into bottles, taking care not to cork them till the syrup is quite cold. Capillakie Syrup.—Take two quarts of fine syrup, and boil it to a blow; boil twice or three times, two gills and a half of orange-flower water, skimming it all the time; put it into new bottles and cork it up the next day; put_ pieces of bladder over the corks, but mind that it is a fine syrup before you take it off. CAPILOTADE a I’ltalienuc.—Cnt up a cold roast fowl; then t.ake a good slice of butter, and some shred mush- rooms and potherbs ; fry these till they are about to turn brown, with a tea- spoouful of flour; then add to them a large glass of white wine. Let the whole simmer together for a quarter of an hour; next put in the piece.s of fowl, and heal them up for a few minutes. Garnish your dish with fried slices of bread ; and just before you serve, pour into the saucepan two table-spoonsful of oil. tak- ing care that it does not boil, and stir it up well with the sauce. CAPON, BoikJ.—Diav/ your capon.CAP 115 ) CAP wash it, and fill the inside with oysters. Cut 4 neck of mutton in pieces ; boil it, and skim it well; put in the capon, and when it boils, skim it again j take care that you have not more broth than will just cover the meat; then put in about a pint of white wine, whole pepper, cloves, and mace. About a quarter ol aa hour before it is finished, put in three anchovies, carefully washed and boned ; you may also, if you think proper, add parsley and sweet herbs. When it is sufficiently done, put some sippets into a dish, take the oysters out of the capon, put them into the broth, and pour it over the sippets, then place the capon in the middle, and squeeze either an orange or lemon over before you serve. Capon, iochnose.—If it is young, his spurs are short and his legs smooth; if_a true capon, a fat vein on the side of his breast, the comb pale, and a thick belly and rump ; if fresh, he will have a close hard vent; if stale, a loose open vent. Capon, with Crmj-fish.—Stew a capon « la braise ; then make a ragoClt of mtish- rooms, truffles, and the tails of cray-fish; tossitup with a little melted lard,moisten with a good deal of veal gravy, and thicken it with a cullis of cray-fish; then take up your capon, let it drain, then put it in a dish, and pour your ragofit over it and serve. You must be careful not to let your ra- goflt boil after you have put in your cray-fish cullis, for, if it should, it will turn; therefore only keep it over hot embers. Capon dressed the French way.—Take a quart of white wine, season the capon with salt, cloves, and whole pepper, a fewshalots; and then put the capon in an earthen p.w ; you must take care it has not room to shake; it must be co- vered close, and done over a slow char- coal fire. Capon, to fricassee.—Take a capon either roast or boiled, cut it up, and take the pinions from the wings and the brawn froni the joints. Being thus prepared, put it into a pan, take the yolks of five eggs, some minced thyme, and sliced nutmeg, mix them well together, and put them into the pan with clarified but- ter, half hot, and fry them till they are brown, then turn them out; then put the yolks of three eggs, an onion cut in quarters, anchovies, and a little grated nutmeg, into some white wine, strong broth, or gravy; then pour out what liquor is in your pan, and put to it a ladleful of butter; put this layer into your pan, and keep it continually shak- ing over a slow fire, till it thickens (if it is too thick it may be thinned with white wine) 5 then put your fowl into a dish, pour in your sauce. Garnish it with slices of lemon, and hard yolks of eggs chopped small, and serve. Capon, au gros sel.*—After having drawn and trussed a capon, rub it over with lemon, and cover it with slices of bacon, and put it into a stewpan with some onions, carrots, the neck, the giz- zard, and some pieces of veal; mix the whole together v/ith some bouillon, and let it stew over a gentle fire, from aliout an hour and a half to two hours. Serve it with rock salt sprinkled over it, and a good gravy. Capon, It is usually an old capon that is dressed in this way. Having drawn and trussed it, cover it with rashers of bacon to preserve its whiteness; tie it up and put it into a saucepan, with a sufficient quantity of water. When done, serve with a little of its broth, and some rock salt sprinkled over it. A capon is esteemed a great delicacy; they are best about seven or eight months old, and are almost always served roasted ; should they not be very tender, they may be dresse'd en dauhe, like a turkey. Capon, the Italian fashion.—Boil some rice in mutton broth till it is very thick, adding salt and sugar; then boil some Bologna sausages very tender, mince them very small, add somegrateu cheese, sugar, and cinnamon, mix the whole to- gether ; then your capon being boiled or roasted, cut it up, and lay it on a dish with some rice, strew over it some of the sausage, cinnamon, grated cheese, and sugar, and lay on the yolks of raw eggs ; thus make two or three layers, lay some eggs, butter, or marrow on the top of all, and set it over a chafing-dish of coals, or in a warm oven. Capon, larded v'ith Lemon.—Let your capon be first scalded, then take a little dust of oatmeal to make it look white ; then take a pint of stock, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three dates, cut long- ways, some currants parboiled, a little whole pepper, a blade of mace, and a nutmeg, thiaken it with almonds, season with sugar, verjuice, and a little butter; then lard the capon with thick lardons of bacon and preserved lemon, boil it; when done, place it in a deep dish, and pour the stock oyer it. Garnish with preserved barberries and sippets. Capon yiih Oysters.—Dress a capon a la braise, then simmer some mush- rooms and truffles in some veal gravy over a stove, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham; then give some oysters two or three turns in their own liquor over the fire to blanch them, but do not( 116 ) CAP CAP let them boil; take them ofT, clean them well, and put them into the ragoClt you have prepared, set it over the lire to heat, but do not let it boil; take up the capon, let it drain, then lay it in a dish, pour the ragodt over, and serve it hot. C.4P0N u'itk Oysters and Chesnuts.— Boil twelve large cliesnuts till they are soft, then peel them and put them into claret wine warmed with tlie same num- ber of oysters parboiled; spit the capon, and put these into the inside of the capon, and stop them in with butter, roast it before a quick fire, baste it with fresh butter, and when it begins to drip, pre- serve the gravy ; then take half a pint of claret, put into it fifteen or twenty large chesnuts boiled, and the same number of oysters, a piece of butter, and some whole pepper; stew all these to- gether till half has stewed away; when your capon is roasted, put the gravy which you have saved into the sauce, bread the capon, place it on a dish, pour the sauce all over, and serve. Capon Pasty.—Roast a capon, let it be cold, take the flesh from the bones and slice it, but "keep the thighs and pinions whole. Add to the flesh of the capon, four sweetbreads and half a pint of oys- ters, season them with salt, cloves, nut- meg, and mace, sweet marjoram, penny- royal, and thyme, minced; lay a sheet of paper or paste in your pasty-pan, and lay the thighs and pinions on the bottom, and strew them over with sliced onions, then put in the flesh of the capon, the sweetbreads, and the oysters, cut in halves; over these strew a handful of chesnuts, boiled and blanched, then put butter over them, close up your pan and bake it; when done, add gravy, good stock, drawn butter, anchovies, and grated nutmeg; garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Turkey may be done in the same manner. Capon with Pease.—Boil a fat piece of beef with a capon, a piece of bacon, and a little salt; when the capon is almost boiled, take it out, and braise some pease and boil them in the broth ; then take up the beef, and put in the capon again; when all is sufhciently done, take up the pease, strain them, and put them intd a saucepan to boil by themselves; when done, dish the cApon, pour the strained pease over it and serve. Capon in Pilau.*—Truss a capon with the claws inside, and tie it up; put it into a atewpan wi th some good consommi, and cover it with a slice of bacon; when the capon is about three parts done, put in halt a pound of rice well washed; let it stand over the fire till the rice is per- fectly creed, then drain the capon, and dish it. Add to the rice some saSron in powder, and a good pimento; butter, and place it round the capon. Capon Pudding.~\ioast a capon, take out the meat of the breast, mince it small, then cut some pig’s feet very thin, put these into a saucepan, with a couple of roasted onions; then pound them in a mortar with sweet herbs and shred parsley, seasoned with spices and mixed with the whites of two or thi'ee eggs beaten. Beat up the yolks of twelve eggs in a quart of milk, boil it to a cream ; then mix all together, and just warm it over the fire; put these into skins the same as you do marrow pud- dings; blanch them in water and milk with slices of onions; when you use them, spread a sheet of paper over with lard, lay it on a gridiron, broil your puddings on it over a gentle fire, and serve them. Capon au Riz.*—Draw and truss your capon, and cover it with slices of bacon; then wash thoroughly a quarter of a pound of rice; drain it and let it dry be- fore the fire, then put it into some iourV- Um, and let it stew, moistening it and stirring it from time to time; when it is done, keep it on warm ashes and soak some crust of bread in it; drain your capon which you have cooked, by itself, take eft' the slices of bacon, and serve it on a dish with the rice round it, and pour over the whole some clear veal gravy. C won with Rice.—Cover a capon with a thin layer of bacon, and put it in a sauce- pan with a pound of rice, half under the fowl, and half above it; fill up the sauce- pan with stock, and salt to your taste. Put the whole over a slow fire, with some charcoal on the lid of the saucepan. When the rice has absorbed the whole of the stock, serve it under the fowl. Capons, in general, are dressed the same as fowls. Capon, Soused.—Take a full-bodied capon, prepare it as for the spit, then lay it in soak four hours with a knuckle of veal well jointed; then boil them with a gallon of water, skim it well, put in five or six blades of mace, two or three races of sliced ginger, three fennel, and three parsley roots. When the capon is boiled, take it up and put to your soused broth a quart of white wine, boil it to a jelly, then put it into an earthen pan, and put your capon into it with three lemons sliced, then cover it close for use. When you serve it, garnish with barberries, slices of lemon, nutmeg, mace, and some of the jelly. Capon Roasted with Sweet Herbs.-^ When you have drawn the capon, putCAR CAR 117 I your finger between the skin and flesh to loosen it; grate some bacon (tlie quantity of two eggs), and add to it one truffle, one mushroom, a little parsley, and garden-basil; season these with salt, pepper, and spices, mix these all well together, and put them between the skin and flesh of the capon, and sew up the end ; then lard the capon with slices I of veal and ham, putting a little sweet 1 herbs, salt, and pepper between ; then I wrap it up in sheets of naper, and put it I on the spit to roast. By the time it is j roasted, have ready a ragofit of veal , sweetbreads, fat livers, mushrooms, i truffles, morels, artichoke-bottoms, as- j paragus-tops in their season, which ) should be tossed up with a little melted i lard, and strengthened with a good i gravy; take off the fat, and thicken I It with a cullis of veal and ham, place [| your capon on a dish, pour your ragoClt I all over, and serve. Chickens, par- tridges, ducks, pheasants, &c., may be dressed in the same manner. I CAPSICUM Pods.—Gather the pods, with the stalks on, before they turn red; cut a slit down the side with a penknife, and take out all the seeds, but as little j of the meat as possible; lay them in a strong brine, for three days, changing it every day; then take them out, lay them on a cloth, and lay another over them till they are quite dry; boil vine- gar enough to cover them, put in some mace and nutmeg beat small; put the pods into a glass or jar, and when the liquor is cold, pour it over, then tie a bladder and leather over them. CARAMEL Conserve.*^C\Av\iy the quantity of sugar you may require, and boil it to caramel; have ready some cases of double paper; pour in your su- gar to the thickness of half an inch, and jxace on its surface the forms you wish it to have; when cold, break it accord- ing to those marks. This conserve may be coloured and flavoured according to the fancy. Caramel Cover for Sweetmeats.—Dis- solve eight ounces of double-refined su- gar in three or four spoonsful of water, and threeor four drops of lemon-juice; then put it into a copper untinned skil- I let; when it boils to be thick, dip the I handle of a spoon in it, and put that into , a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar i from the spoon into it, and so on till I you have all the sugar. Take a bit out I of the water, and if it snaps and is brittle ' when cold, it is done enough; but only ' let it be three parts cold, then pour the water from the sugar, and having a cop- ' per mould oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold ou may put it on the dish it is to cover; ut if, on trial, the sugar.is not brittle, pour off the water, and return it into the skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold colour. It makes a most elegant cover. Caramel Croqi/ant.—Take a copper croquanttop, and butter it all over, then have some syrup boiling in a stewpan; let it boil till it comes to caramel, take the pan oft', dip a three-pronged fork into the syrup or from the spout of the pan, and y'ou will see strings liang to the fork; move the fork backwards and for- wards over the croquant until you quite cover it thick, have your little dish of sweetmeats under, take this croquant off the mould, and when cold put it over the sweetmeats and handle it very lightly. CARDAMUM Comfits. — Procure your cardainums at the chemists, and they will be in a shell; put them into the oven to dry the skins, and they will break; pick all the seeds from them, put the seeds into a large comfit-pan. and have a fire under the same as for others; mix your gum, starch, and syrup, and finish them the same as carrarvay comfits. Cardamom IFater. — Take pimento, carraway and coriander seeds, and lemon- peel, of each four ounces ; three gallons of proof spirit, and a sufficient quantity of water, distil, and sweeten it with a pound and a half of sugar. CARDOONS xeith Cheese. — String and cut them an inch long, put them into a saucepan with red wine, seasoned with pepperand salt, stew them till they are tender, put in a piece of butter rolled in flour, and when of a proper thickness pour them into a dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into the sauce, and scrape over them some Parmesan or Cheshire cheese, and then brown them with a cheese-iron, but not of too high a co- lour. Cardoons in Cheese.*—Add to the sauce in which the cardoons are cooked, grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese; and put it over them when placed in the dish \ cover them with bread-crumbs and grated cheese, pour melted butter over the whole; colour it in the oven, or with a salamander. Another wai/.~\Vhen the cardoons are boiled, put a little cullis into a dish, and lay on it as many bits of fried bread as ou have cardoons, which place on the read; pour cullis over and strew grated cheese over. Finish as above. Cardoons (to dress).—Cut them in pieces six inches long, and put them on a string; boil till tender, have readyCAR ( 118 CAR a piece of butter in a pan, flour and fry them. They may illsobe tied in bundles, and eerveu as asparagus boileU on a toast, and pour butter over. Caiidoons d I’Essence with Marrow.— The. .same preparation as for Spanish cardoons, receipt second. Take a few pieces of beef-marrow, all ot a size, which yau put to disgorge in warm water, to draw out all the blood. When tlioroughly disgorged, blanch and stew it in a little water, with a little salt, and a few slices of lemon to keep it white. When done, put it into the essence, which is nothing but some esp^i^nolc reduced. Drain the fat, and do not forget to put a little sugar; which is requisite in all dishes of cardoons, as it make.s them much better. Cardoons, Fried and Buttered.—You must cut them about six inches long, and string them ; then boil them till tender; take them out, have some butter in your stewpan, flour them, and fry them brown; send them in a dish, with melted butter in a cup. Or, you may tie them up in bundles, and boil them like asparagus ; put a toast under them, and pour a little melted butter over them; or cut them into dice, and boil them like pease : toss them up in butter, and send them up hot. Cardoons d la Fromage.—After they are strung, cut them an inch long, stew them in a little red wine till they are tender ; season with pepper and salt, and thicken it vvith a piece of butter rolled in flour ; then pour them into your dish, squeeze the juice of an orange over it, then scrape Parmesan or Cheshire cheese all over them; then brown it with a cheese-iron, and serve it up quick and hot. Cardoons, Purie o/.*—Boil some car- doons in a blanc, and cut them into small pieces: have ready three large spoonsful of veloute, and six of consonvnU, in which put the cardoons; set them on the fire till reduced to a paste; then pass them through a bolting; keep your puree as thick as paries usually are, but if too thick, put in a little cream ; add a bit of jelly about the size of a walnut; keep it hot without boiling in the bam tnarie. Cardoons, Purie of., in Crouslade.*— Cut some slices about an inch and a half thick from a large French loaf, fry them of a light colour in butter, drain them; take out the inner crumb, and fill them with a puree of cardoons, having mixed about naif an ounce of butter in whilst the purie was quite hot. Cardoons d la Sauce Blanche.—Tha same preparation as for Spanish car- doons, receipt second, only serve with the sauce blanche., or French melted butter. Cardoons, Spanish.*—Cat them into lengths of three inches, be careful not to use those which are hollow and green; boil them for haif an hour, then put them' into lukewarm water to cleanse them from their slime ; then dress them in some stock, with a spoonful of flour, some salt, onions, roots, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little verjuice, and a little but- ter; when done, put them intoacullis with some stock; cook them for an hour in this sauce, and «erve. Cardoons, Spanish.— Select a few heads of cardoons, all very white. Cut each leaf into slices of six inches long; with the exception, however, of those, that are hollow, which are tough and thready. Bearcl them of their prickles, and blanch them, by putting the thickest leaves into boiling water. When you have given these a few boils, put in the leaves of the heart; turn the middle stalks into large olives, and blanch them likewise. Then try a piece in cold water, to see if the slime which is on the sur- face will come ofl by rubbing. It so. take them off the fire immediately, and throw them into cold water, as they are done enough ; or you may cool the boil- ing water, by pouring cold into it till you are able to bear your hand in it, to rub off all the slime. _ This being done, throw the cardoons into a blanc, give them a single boil, and leave them in the blanc. Whenever you wish to use them, drain a sufficient quantity. Pare both extremities, and mask them in a stewpan, with four spoonsful of espagncle and four spoonsful of consomme, a little salt, and a little sugar. Let tliem boil over a sharp fire, that they may not be done too much; be sure to skim off all the fat. Dish them nicely. Strain the sauce through a tammy before you mask them. Send them up to table quite hot, with a cover over them, to prevent their getting dry. Cardoons, Stewed. — Cut them in pieces, take off’ the outside skin, wash and scald them ; put them into a stew- pan, add stock enough to cover them, boil till three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced; then add a little be- chamelle, and stew them gently till done. Serve with sippets of fried bread round the dish, and the cardcwns in the centre. CAUDOoNsr/u Feloutc.—The same pre- paration as for Spanish cardoons, receipt second. Take some out of the blanc, trim and stew them in a little consomme, and when they are done, drain and sauce them with some veloute. *CAR CAR 119 I CARP.—Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to prevent this. Tlie same signs of fresh- ness attend tliem as other fish. Carp.*—When it is large, it is served au bleu as a roast, having drawn and taken out its gills (it should not be scaled), put it upon a large dish, boil some vinegar, and whilst it is boiling hot pour it over the carp, this will turn it blue; then dress it in a thick bouillon. Roast.—\y\m\ it is done, serve it upon a napkin, garnished with green parsley, as a dish of roast ?naigi'e. Carp au if toe.*—Clean your carp, and put it into a fish-kettle with some small onions, a good piece of butter, worked up with some flour; moisten it with two glasses of white wine, and one glass of water; let it boil quickly for an hour and a half; when done, and the sauce thick, serve it on a hot dish: you must be careful not to let the sauce be too thick. Carp Boiled in fVine.—’Tak& the liver of the carp clean from the guts, three anchovies, a little parsley, thyme, and onion; chop them together, and take half a pint of rhenish wine, four spoons- ful of vinegar, and the blood of the carp; stew them gently together, put it to the carp, which must first be boiled in water, with a little salt, and half a pint of wine; but after the carp is put into the sauce, let it not be done too much. Carp, Broiled.*—Clean your carp, cut oft'the tail and the fins; put into the body a piece of butter worked up with sweet herbs; sew up the opening, and make some notches on both sides about half an inch deep, rub it with a piece of fresh butter, and cover it all over with crumbs of bread and parsley, chopped very fine. Broil it over a gentle fire, and serve with whatever sauce you think best. Carp Broiled with Caper Sauce.— Having scaled and drawn one or more carp, let them soak on a dish with a mixture of salt, pepper, and oil; then take them out, and broil by a moderate fire; when done, serve with caper sauce. Carp « la Chamhord.*—Clean, scale, and well wash a fine carp; skin it, and lard it all over with small pieces of bacon, tie it together by the head and tail; put it into a fisli-keitle, with a rich or mai- gre marinade, and let it boil until the bacon is coloured. Dish your carp, and garnish with forcemeat balls, veal sweet- I breads, Cray fish, toasted bread, arti- ! choke bottoms, boiled with the carp; ' reduce the sauce made with the liquor in which the carp has boiled, add two spoonsful of Spanish sauce, then pour it over your fish. CARPuir Commissaire.*—Scale, clean, take out the gills, and skin a fine carp, lard it all over with small pieces of bacon. Make a/rwee of sweetbreads, truflles, fat livers, bacon and chicken, or any other poultry; cut up the whole into small dice, stuff' your carp, and sew vip the opening fast. Put into a stewpan two slices of bacon and two slices of veal; wrap your carp in a sheet of paper, and put it into the stewpan on the slices of bacon and veal, and cover your carp with two more slices of veal, let the whole sweat over a gentle fire ; and when the veal begins to colour, pour into the stewpan a bottle of burgundy, and a pint, of rich bouillon, salt, pepper, tarragon ; let the whole boil slowly for three hours. When the carp is done, serve it upon a dish over hot water; strain the sauce through a sieve, reduce it to a proper consistence, and pour it boiling over your fish ; it is usually glazed with veal gravy, consomme, reduced to a good jelly, and of a fine clear golden colour ; garr nish your dish with Cray fish, sweet- breads, truflles, morels, artichoke bot- toms, or any other kind of garniture which the season may afford. Carp au Courle Bouillon.* — Wash, scale, and clean a carp, take out the gills, and put into the body a piece of butter worked up with some flour; boil a glass of vinegar, and whilst it is boiling pour it over your fish; add to it some salt, pepper, laurel, a pint of wine, and two slices of lemon; cook it for two hours, drain it, serve it on a napkin, and strew over it some green parsley. Carp d la i>a?<ie.*—Scale and clean a fine carp ; if it is old it must be skinned. Lard it, and put it into a fish-kettle with some good bouillon, a pint of Cham- pagne, salt, pepper, coriander, and the juice ol a lemon ; let it boil till the sauce is reduced to a proper consistence: serve it hot. Carp Dressed icith Eels.*—Clean,and cook in a siewpan, some carp whole, tvith some eels cut in pieces, and the bone taken out; add some bouillon, either rich or maigre, white wine, and sweet 1 ‘u done, dish your carp, with the eels properly ranged round ; reduce the sauce, and serve it over the hsh. Carp, Entree of.*—Take a fine carp, clean and scale it, chop up some parsley, scallion, shalots, tarragon, and other fine herbs; work in a piece of butter, and when the whole is well mixed together, put it into the body of the carp. Put it IC A II CAR ( 120 ) in n vpsRt'l auflicicntly long to let it lay full length: you must, before you put your carp into your vessel, line your vessel with a layer of onions cut in slices, with two cloves of garlic, a little Seville orange-peel, salt, pepper, and a pint of wine, or two pints, according to the size of your fish; add a glass or two of fish bouillon, or in case you have not any ready, you may substitute boiling water ; cook it over a slow fire for two or three hours. When it is suflnciently done, take it out, and place it on a dish; strain the sauce through a sieve, and if it is too thin, reduce it, then pour it over your fish. Carp A P Estaing.*—Clean, scale, and take out the gills of a carp, lard it •with bacon, truffles, and fillets of ancho- vies ; then make a farce of the flesh of perch, roach, or any other small fish, chopped up with crumb of bread boiled in milk; add parsley, scallion, shalots, salt, nutmeg, butter, and tbe yolks of three eggs; mix the whole well together, and stufl'your carp. Put into a stewpan some onions, butter, and slices of truf- fles ; put in your carp, (having first care- fully sewn up the opening of the belly where you have put in your stuffing, and run a thread through the mouth of the fish, that you may take it out of the stewpan without breaking!. Moisten it with equal quantities of fisn bouillon and red burgundy, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; let it stew for three hours; serve it upon a dish, and pour over it the sauce re- maining in the stewpan, having first strained it through a sieve. Caup (Farce of).—Take the flesh of two carps, v/hich should be chopped, pounded, and rubbed through a sieve. Soak some crumbs of bread in some good milk ; have a few mushrooms and a little parsley chopped fine. Set the herbs to sweat in a little butter, over a slow fire; then let them cool in a hair sieve. Next put the bread which has been soaked and squeezed propeily, with the flesh of the carp that has been rubbed through a tammy, into a mortar, with a lump of butter of about the same bulk as the flesh of the carp, and season with pepper, salt, allspice, three or four eggs’ whites, and e^gs' whites and yolks together; Jarces with butter require more eggs than those with udder. Yet before you put more than three, you must try to roll some of the farce in a little flour, and to poach it in boiling water. You then taste, and add to the seasoning if required. When completely done, rub it through a sieve, and let it cool in the larder, and use it •when you have occasion. This farce is used lotpelilsp&tis of carp. Carp /'am.*—Scale a fine soft reed carp ; split it up the back ; take out the flesh without injuring the skin, and without touching the back bone; chop up this flesh with that of an eel, very small; season it with fresh butter, sweet herbs, thyme, mushrooms, cloves, grated nutmeg, add also some of the roe ; put this Jarce into the carp; then sew it up; put it into a stewpan, with some butter roux, white wine, and some clear puree; baste it ail over with fresh but- ter worked with flour, and chopped parsley; bake it in the oven; serve it, garnished with the roux and fried mush- rooms. Carp Farci, Baked.—Take a fine carp, scale and empty it; then detach one side of the fillets, without injuring the head. Take this flesh, and that of another carp of a smaller size, and make a farce in the following manner; take the crumb of two penny loaves, soak it in cream or milk, then squeeze it, and put it into a mortar, with an equal quantity of the flesh of the carp, nearly as much fresh butter, with a little chopped parsley, a few mushrooms fried in a little butter, salt, pepper, and spice. When all these in- gredients have been pounded in a mor- tar, add a coupie of eggs, and continue pounding for a long time, then take a little, and throw into boiling water, and taste. If it be too delicate, which means too thin, add one egg more, pound it again, and then rub it through the sieve 'a quenelles; and fill up the cavities in the fillets ol the carp, giving it the shape of a fish. Take care, however, to give it a good shape. Next, let it be done tho- roughly in the oven, and serve it, with caper sauce under it. Carp Fillets with Lemon.*—Cut some middling sized carp into fillets, and stew them with some fish gravy for half an hour; place them upon a dish, reduce some sauce, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon; let it Iwil for a quarter of an hour, and then pour it boiling over your fillets, and serve. Carps (Florendine of). — Take the yolks of half a dozen eggs, and three quarters of a pound of butter, and work them up in a quarter of a peck of flour ; dry it, add as much water as will make it into a paste, make it up as near as you can in the form of the fish. Scale a carp alive, scrap oil' the slime, draw it, sea- son it lightly with salt, pepper, and nut- meg, put the milt into the belly, lay it into the pyc ; then lay on it dates sliced in halves, barberries, raisins, orange and lemon, cut in slices, and butter, close it up, bake it: when it is .almost baked, liquor it with butter, claiet, white wine,C A R CAR ( 121 verjuice, and sugar. Ice it over, and serve it liot. Carp Clean and scale a carp; split it up the back j flatten the back- bone, sprinkle your fish with flour, then sprinkle the roes which have been put aside, put the whole into a frying-pan made very hot, fry to a rich colour, and serve it with lemon-juice. Carp 67ae^e.*—Clean and skin a carp, lard it with small pieces of bacon, stuff it; and boil it quickly in white wine. Then drain it. Put a stuffing on a dish, and lay your carp upon it, cover it with two slices of veal, over which put a buttered sheet of paper. Then bake it in a moderate oven ; when sufficiently done, take off"the slices of veal, and glaze with a gravy made from carp, or any other, and reduced to the proper consis- tency. Carp en Matelote.*—Take a carp, scale it, and take out the gills, cut it in pieces, and put it into a stewpan with some other fish, either jack, eels, cray- fish, barbel, or any other river fish, which it is most eonvenient to procure. Put into another stewpan a little roux, with some butter, and aspoonful of flour; when it is of a good colour, pat in some small onions, cut in quarters, and when they are half done, add a little more but- ter. Then moisten with equal quanti- ties of red wine and soup maigre; then pour your onions with their sauce into the stewpan in which you have put your carp, and season the whole with salt, pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs ; then put it to boil over a brisk fire for half an liour. When ready to serve, put some pieces of toasted bread in the sauce. When the carp is done without any other fish, it is called stewed, the man- ner of dressing it is exactly the same. Carp Minced.*—Clean some small carp, skin them, and take out the bones; minee the flesh with parsley, shalots, scallion, salt, pepper and nutmeg; melt some butter in a stewpan, and put your minee into it; let it stew for a quarter of an hour, then moisten it with soup mea- gre, and let it stew till done. Dish it with pieces of fried bread all round. Carp Pie.—Scrape off the scales, and gut and wash a large carp clean. Boil an eel till almost tender; pick off all the meat, and mince it fine, with an equal quantity of bread crumbs, a few sweet herbs, lemon-peel cut fine, a little pep- per, salt, and nutmeg grated; an an- chovy, half a pint of oysters parboiled, and chopped fine, and tlie yoikg of three hard eggs cut small: roll it up with a quarter of a pound of butter, and fill the I belly of the carp. Wake a good crust to cover the dish, and lay in the fish. Save the liquor of the eels, put into it the eel bones, and boil them with a little mace, whole pepper, an onion, some sweet herbs, and an anchovy, till reduced to lialfapint, then strain it, add to it a qu.arterof a pint of white wine, and a piece of butter about the size of a hen’s egg, mixed in a very little flour. Boil it up, and pour it into the pie ; then put onttie lid, and bake it an hour in a quick oven. Ckv.v,Polish Fashion.—Cvit a carp into large pieces, and slit the head in two ; put it into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, slices of onions, bits of carrots, parsley, green shalots, thyme, laurel, whole pepper, and salt; soak it a little while; then add a pint of beer, and a good glass of brandy; when done, strain the sauce, add a bitof butter, roll it in flour, and the juice of a Seville orange ; reduce the sauce pretty thick, and serve upon the fish. Carp RagoiU.*-'Di'a.\v and scale your carp, then broil it with stuffing over it, then cut it in pieces, put it into a stew- pan with some butter, parsley, scallion, mushrooms, all chopped up, a pint of white wine, some salt, and pepper. When it is sufficiently stewed serve it with a thick sauce. Carp en Redingote.* — Clean your carp, cut off the tail and fins,stuff it with a farce, made according to your own taste, cut in on the back, and rub it well all over with fresh butter ; then strew it with bread crumbs and chervil, chopped fine, and worked with butter ; cover it with a sheet of paper, and wrap it up en papillate, cook it over a moderate fire in a large pan. Serve it with what sauce you please. Carp Stuff a carp with a farce made of butter, bread crumbs, fine spices, capers, anchovies, parsley, and green shalots, all finely chopped ; lard it with fillets of fresh anchovies, first soaked to take out the salt; tie it to a skewer, and then fix it to the spit; cover it over with two or three, doubles of pa- per, well buttered, and baste it with white wine, boiled with some butter, two laurel leaves, and one clove ofgarlick; serve with what sauce or ragoflt you think proper. Carp d. la Savanah.* — Take some live carp, cut them in fillets, and wipe them with a cloth dipped in brandy ; cut tliem into pieces of oifl'erent sizes, and put them into a stewpan with two or three dozen of small onions, which have been previously half dressed over the ashes; season with salt, pepper, laurel, and lemon-peel, pour over it a sufficientCAR 122 CAR quantity of wine to cover your fiali, let the whole boil quickly for two hour.*, then add some pieces of fried bread. When the fish is quite done, and the sauce reduced, |)eur the whole into a larire dish, and serve it very hot. _Cahp Sauce.—Cut up a carp in large bits, and put it info a stewpan, with a lewslices ofbacon, ham,veal, twoonions, one carrot, and half a parsnip; soak it till it catches a little; then add a glass of white wine and good broth, a little cullis, a fagot of parsley, chibbol, a clove of garlick, two of spices, and a laurel leaf; simmer for an hour, skim it very well, and strain it in a sieve. Carp Stewed.*—Meltapiece ofbutter, worked up wi th some flour in a stewpan ; when it is a little browned, mix with it a glass of soup maigre, and add some small onions, cut in slices; then put in your carp, season with sal^ pepper, laurel, and add a pint of red wine; let it boil slowly till quite done, and the sauce is reduced ; then serve. Carp Stewed.*—Scale and clean your carp, cut it in pieces; brown some but- ter with a pinch of flour, put in some small onions ; add butter, parsley, chib- bol, shalots, thyme, laurel, mushrooms, grated nutmeg; moisten it with equal quantities of bouillon and red wine, put your carp into this seasoning, and stew it over a good Are. When it is done, serve your carp upon a dish, with toasted bread under it, and pour the sauce over the whole. Carp S/merf.*—Bleed them in the tail, wash them clean, put them in a stew- pan, with a pintof claret, a pint of gravy, with the blood, a bunch of sweet herbs, two anchovies, an onion stuck with cloves, some lemon-peel, some horse-radish sliced, nutmeg sliced, and some whole pepper tied in a cloth, when the carp is sufficiently done, strain ofT the sauce ; then put in a little lemon juice ; thicken the sauce with burnt butler. Carp Stewed with /Fine.—Take a carp ; being well cleaned, crimp it two or three times, set it in a stewpan with some good consomme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay leaf, and a few pepper corns; let it stew gently between two fires till well done, then take it out, lay it on a dish; the liquor must stew with three spoonsful of sauce tournee, till tolerably tbick ; if not quite smooth, squeeze it through a tammy ; put in the juice of a lemon, with a very little cayenne pepper, and pour it over the fish, which must be garnished with veal forcemeat. Carp Tongue.i. Rneoiit c/.*—Blanch about an hundred carp tongues in water. H'ith a little salt and vinegar; drain ; them well; have ready two spoonsful of i aUemunde. and the same of vetoute, and j boil it up; add to it, by degrees, a pound i of butter ; put in the tongues, and finish j it with lemon-juice. Carp Roes in Aspic.* — Prepare an | aspic, as directed for cock's-combs in i aspic, and fill it with carp roes, lioiled , and well seasoned. Carp Roes, d la Bellevue.—Scald the .j roes in warm water, and prepare a stew- pan with thin slices of bacon, and one slice of ham ; add to this a scalded sweet- ;i bread, a fagot of sweet herbs, onions ,i cut into hoops pretty thick, a glass of | white wine, whole pepper, and a little , salt (or none, if the ham is not very ■ fresh); when the sweetbread is almost i brazed enough, put the roes to it, a lit- J tie broth, and about two dozen of cray- , fish tails picked ; simmer together about a quarter of an hour_, then put the i sweetbread into the middle of the dish, i with two or three of the onion-rings upon i it, which you baste with whites of eggs i to make them stick the better ; fill them i with cray-fish spawn boiled a moment in a good cullis, and the roes and cray-fish i tails round separately; add some good rich culli.s to the sauce, make it pretty thick, strain it in a sieve, and pour it upon the roes only. Carp Roes, Caisses of.*—Blanch thirty well-washed carp loes ; drain them ; put into a stewpan a piece of butter, cham- pignons, parsley, shalots (all chopped > small), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other ' spice; do these lightly over the fire, . taking care not to let them take colour; add the carp roes to them, and let them simmer a minute. Make around cnijie. . at the bottom of which lay a qratin : oil : the caisse well and put it on tiie griairon i over hot ashes; place the roes on the gratin, and broil them thus. When done,take them from the caisse, and dish them. Carp Roes. Dutch Fashion.—Boil a . dozen of small white onions, scalded in half a pint of white wine, a fagot of sweet herbs, a good fait of butter, pepper and salt; when three parts done, put scalded carp roes into it. and finish the boiling (they require no longer than time enough to finish the onions very tender); reduce the sauce pretty thick; put the rocs into the middle of the dish, and the onions round ; mix a little spinach-juice with the sauce, to give it a pale grwn colour, or a strong green if yon think proper. Serve the sauce upon the onions only, or in tlie bottom of the dish, and the rc.st upon it ; garni.sh it round with fried broad. Carp roes are also dressed( 1-23 ) CAR I I I I I I CAR aa a cliicken fricass<*e, with iTUiahrooms, a little chopped parsley, and white liaison sance. Carp Roes, English Fashion.—Boil acalded roes about n quarter of an hour in some good jellybroih, seasoned with pepper and salt; when ready to serve, add a bit of butter rolled in flour, simmer it a moment without boiling; add a lemon squeeze, and let the sauce be of a middling consistence, neither very thick, nor clear and thin. A la Bechamelle, Aont with Bechamel sauce; scald them lirst, and simmer them a while in it. CinvRoesfricasseed.—Put into astew- pan A little butter, a dozen small mush- rooms, a slice of ham, the squeeze of a lemon, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Stew it a little time on a slow fire, then add a little flour, and as many carp roes as you think ptx)per, with a little good broth; stew them about a quarter of an hour, and season them with pepper and salt when you put in the broth. When all is ready, thicken it with the yolks of two or three eggs, some cream, and a little chopped parsley. Carp Roes fried.—Scald them as usual; and when they are well drained, mari- nate about an hour with lemon-juice and a little salt; drain and flour them to fry in a very hot friture, to give them a good brown colour; drain upon a sieve, or with a cloth; squeeze an orange over, and garnish with fried parsley. Carp Roes, Petits-pdUs maigres of.*— Blanch a fine carp roe in salt and water, cut it in small pieces, about three quar- ters of an inch square; place one of these upon each petit-pdu, which has been previously filled with a fame fine of carp roes. Finish them as usual (see Petits- pdUs), and serve them with beohamelle maigre. Carp Roes, Pie of.* —Make a farce as follows ; take a pound of pike or carp, and pound it well; then put with it a quarter of a pound of panada, and pound it again ; add a pound and a half of fresh butter, grated bacon or calf's udder; when all is well mixed, add the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of fine herbs, eight drachms of sniced salt, and a spoon- ful of velouU, and a quarter of a pound of pounded anchovies. Take a score of carp roes, and a very fine turbot, cut them in pieces, weigh them, and put sniced salt proportioned to their weight. Sliglitly warm two pounds of fresh butter witli two spoonsful of shalots, four of parsley, champignons and truffles, shred fine. Prepare your pie as usual; gar- nish the bottom and sides with the farce; lay in some of the turbot; season them with spiced salt, and mask them with a spoonful of butter and sweet herbs, and a little of the farce ; then lay five of the carp roes, seasoned and masked as above; then the turbot, and so on, till the dish is tilled ; put in what- ever spice and farce which iriay re- main, and over the whole lay slices of bacon ; cover the pie, and bake it for three hours and a half. When done, remove the top, and potir in melted butter and sweet herbs. Carp Roes, Ragodt of.—Soak slices of ham and ve.al about half an hour, on a slow tire ; then add a good bit of butter, with mushrooms, two cloves, a faggot of sweet herbs, a little basil, a glass of while wine, a little veal gravy and cullis; boil these till the veal is done, skim the liquor, and take out the veal and ham : scald the roes of carp in hot water, and then boil them in this cullis about a quarter of an hour, skimming it well; (it ought to be as thick as very good cream), season it with pepper, salt, and a lemon squeezed ; when ready, serve it as an entremet. You may make it in maigre, but in that case you must have fish for the cullis, instead of ham and veal. CARRAWAY Cake.—Dry a quarter of'a peck of fine flour in an oven ; rub a pound and a half of fresh butter in it, till it is crumbled so small that none of it is to be seen; then take six spoonsful of rose-water, half a pint of canary, half a pint of cream, and three quarters of a pint of new ale yeast, and the whites of two, and yolks of four eggs ; mix all these well together, let it lie before the fire, and when you make it up put in a pound and a half of Naples biscuits, and three quarters of a pound of carraway- comfits. Bake it. Carraway Cakes.—To a pound of flour, add a pound of fresh butter, eight spoonsful of good yeast, four spoonsful of rose-water, the yolks of three eggs, as many carraways as you please, four ounces of sugar, and some ambergris; knead all into a paste, make it up into any form you please, and when they come out of the oven, strew powder- sugar. Carraway Comfits.—Take some fine carraway seeds, sift all the dust from them, and have a large copper preserv- ing-pan, about two feet wide, and with two handles and two pieces of iron made as a ring on each side ; then you must have a pulley fixed to the beam, and a cord with a hook to each end, so as to fix it at each side of the pan to let it sling; then have some fine starch as white as you can got, and just soften it, M2 1CAR CAR ( )24 ) boil some syrup h quarter of an liour, and mix it wiili tlie starch; take some gum arabic, put it into some water, tlien put lliat into another pan, and make it just warm; have an iron-pot with char- coal fire under the large pan, but not too hot, only just to keep the pan warm ; have a large tub to put your pot of fire at bottom, and your large pan must be on the top; put tlie carraway seeds into your pan; add a large ladleful of gum arabic, rub them >vith your hands until you find they are all dry, then put a ladleful of starch and syrup, and do the same over your pan of fire, until you find they are all dry ; put the gum only three or four times to them at first, then the starch and sugar, but boil your syrup more as you find they come to coat with it, and not so much starch; when you have dried them seven or eight times, put them into your sieve; put them into the stove, do them the next day, and so, successively, for six or seven days. Carhaw AY Dragees.*—Takeany quan- tity of carraway seeds you think proper, put them into a preserving-pan, and when quite warm, put in clarified sugar, a little at a time, stirring it occasionally, till of the size you wish ; then proceed as directed for Almond Dragees. Carraway Pvffs.—Beat the whites of four eggs to a solid froth ; add to them sifted sugar and some carraway seeds, pounded very fine; put the mixture, with a spoon, in pieces about the size of a shilling, as high as you can, on sheets of damp wafer paper, and bake them in a slack oven. Carraway JVater.—Take three gal- lons of proof spirits, and half a gallon of water; add to them half a pound of car- raway seeds, bruised ; distil and sweeten the juice with a pound and a half of brown sugar. CARROTS,—If young, need only be wiped when boiled ; if old, they must be scraped before boiling. Slice them into a disn, and pour melted butter over them. Carrots, av, beurre.*—Scrape ten or twelve carrots, as near of a size as possi- ble ; cut them into thin slices, blanch them in water with salt and a small piece of butter. When done, drain them in a cullender, and then put them into a stewpan with a good bit of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg, shake them over the fire, pour to them a spoonful of veloiite,or water only, to prevent the but- ter from oiling; do noc let it quite boil. You may add fine herbs, if you please. Carrot CnAre.*—Take a dozen large and very red carrots; scrape and boil them in water with a little salt; when done, drain them, take out the hearts. and rub the rest through a bolting; pnt them in a stewpan. and dry them over the fire. Make a cream pdlissiere, with about half a pintof milk; and when done mix it with the carrots ; add a pinch of minced orange-flowers praUnee, three quarters of a pound ol powder-sugar, four whole eggs; put in,one at a time, the yolks of six more, and a quarter of a pound of melted butter; mix all these ingredients together well; whip up the six whites to a froth, and stir them in by degrees. Butter a mould, and put some crumb of bread in it, in a minute or two, turnout all the bread, and three quarters of an hour before the cake is wanted, pour the preparation into the mould and bake it. Serve it hot. Carrots dressed the Dutch way.— Slice some carrots very thin, and just cover them with water; season them with pepper and salt, cut a good many onions and parsley small, a piece of butter; let them simmer over a slow fire till done. Carrots d la Flamunde.—Peel and parboil some small carrots, then put them into a stewpan with butter and salt; let them stew over a slow fire till done ; then take them off, and after stir- ring them up with more butter, serve them. Carrott Fritters.—Beat two or three boiled carrots to a pulp with a spoon ; add to them six eggs and a handful of flour; moisten them with either cream, milk, or white wine, and sweeten them. Beat all together well, and fry in boiling lard. When of a good colour, take them off and squeeze on them the juice of a Se- ville orange, and strew over fine sugar. Carrots (Garniture of).*—Cut fine carrots into pieces about an inch in length, in the form of mushrooms, gar- lick, or any thing else you may like; blanch them in boiling water with salt and butter, take them out and put them into a stewpan with stock, or consommee and fine sugar; stew it to a glaze, and if ^our sauce be not thick enough, add a little butter mixed with flour, herbs, and SRWcotournee. Serve with fried crusts. Carrots, d la d’Orleans.—7'ake a few young carrots, turn them of an equal size, and cut them in slices about the eighth of an inch in thickness, and blanch them well. Next, lay tiiem on a cloth to drain ; put them into a stewpan with a lump of sugar and a little broth, and let them boil over a large fire; when reduced to glaze, add a good bit of fresh butter and a little salt. The butter must adhere to the carrots ivben you serve, as nosauce ought to be seen. Carrot Pudding.—Boil a large carrot tender, then bruise it in a marble mortar.C A R ( 125 ) C A U iand mix with it a spoonful of biscuit- powder, four yolks, and two wliites of eggs, a pint of cream, a little, ratafia, a large spoonfal of orange-flower or rose water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste ; turn it out, and II serve with sugar over. il Caurots eu Puree.—Scrape and cut a some carrots in quarters, take out the ji inside pale yellow, and do not use it. I When you have washed the outsides, |i boil them in plenty of w.ater, with salt, till tender, then drain them on a sieve, and put them on a stewpan with a good bit of butter ; stir them over the fire wjth a wooden spoon ; when the butter begins to fry aud the earrots well mashed, put in a small ladleful of good consomme, a very little sugar and salt; continue to stir them until nearly reduced to the thickness they were at first; add three table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, stir it on the fire for three minutes, and rub it through the tammy in a large dish ; if too thick, add a little more consomme, put it in a stewpan, and before it is wanted, stir it over the fire to boil for four or five minutes; if not strong 1 enough, mix in a bit of glaze. Carrots {RagoUt of).* — Cut some carrots about two fingers in length, shap- ing them round ; boil them a quarter of an hour in water, and then put them in a stewpan with some good stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt; when done, add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, and serve the ragofit with any dish you please. Carrots leith fVhite S«;<ce.-yParboil and slice the carrots; boil them in a pint of water, a small piece of butter, and some salt; when done, and the sauce thick, make it into a sauce, blanche with butter and flour, and serve. Carrots (Sw/tei o/).—Make a thick puree of carrots, but instead of broth use water, in which put a great deal of sugar, half a spoonful of flour, a little salt, and a good bit of butter ; let all this boil till very tender; then put the yolks of six eggs, and mix all well together. The moment you are ready to send, beat the whites of the eggs, which throw in with the rest, and put it into the oven. Carrot Soup.—Put some beef bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which beef or a leg of mutton has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, popper and salt, into a stewpan. and stew lor three hours. Have ready six large carrots, scraped and cut thin ; strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp tlirough a hair sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which must he as thick as pease-s'jup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Mak-e the soup the day before it is to be used ; add cayenne. 1 t>‘P only the red part of the carrrot, and not the yellow. „ , , Carrots Stewed.—Scrape and wash the carrots, then blanch, and cat them in slices, next turn them a few times over the fire, with butter, salt, pepper, and shred parsley ; moisten with some milk, and when done thicken the sauce with the. yolks of eggs and serve. Another way.—Put the carrots into a stewpan with a few slices of bacon, some parsley, green onions, salt and pepper, moistened with stock, or gravy. Let it stew till thick and reduced; serve alto- gether. Cassia {Candle^. —VovnA a little musk and ambergris with as much of the powder of cassia as will lie on two shil- lings. Having pounded them well to- gether, take a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and as much water as will wet it, and boil it to a candy height, then put in your powder and mix well together. Butter some pewter saucers, and when it is cold turn it out. Cassia (Ratujia of).*—Take a pound of cassia, half a pound of bi tter cherries, a quarter of a pound of cassia leaves, and half a drachm of cinnamon ; bruise the two first, cut up the leaves, and pound the cinnamon, infuse these ingredients in three quarts of brandy for three weeks. Dissolve two pounds of .sugar in a quart of water, and mix with the liqueur, and let it stand some time longer, then strain and bottle it. Cork it up close. Caudle. — Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, withabit of butter thesizeof a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, tire, same of white wine, one of capillaire, a piece of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Caudle.—Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits ; when boiled, strain it, stir it at times till cold. When wanted for use, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with some nutmeg. According to taste, you may add, if you please, besides the wine, a spoonful ot brandy, or lemon-juice. Caudle, Brotow.^Boil the gruel the same as for white caudle, with six spoons- ful of oatmeal, and strain it; then add a quart of good ale, not bitter ; boil it, then sweeten it according to your taste, and add half a pint of white wine. When you do not put in the white wine, let it be half ale. CAuniji, (A Flour).—Rub smooth one dessert spoonful of fine flour into five large spoonsful of the very purest water. Put over the fire five spoonsful of new milk, add to it two bits of sugar; the in-( 12G ) C A U C A U Ptnnt it boila, pour into it tlie flour and water, and atir it over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Caudle (Cold). — Boil a quart of spring water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and one ounce of syrup of lemons. Caudle {Rice). — Mix some grated rice with a little cold water, and then pour it into boiling water. When of a proper consistence add sugar, lemon- peel, and cinnamon; to a quart of this put a glass of brandy. Boil all smooth. Caudle {fVhite.)—M\x two spoonsful of oatmeal in a quart of water, with a blade or two of mace, and a piece of lemon-peel ; stir it often, and let it boil full twenty minutes ; strain and sweeten it, add a little white wine, nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice. CAULIFLOWERS {to Dress).— Cut off the stalks, but leave a little green on ; boil them in spring water and salt; they are soon done, but they must not boil too fast. They may also be dressed in milk and water without salt. Second Way.—Blanch the cauliflowers a short time with a slice of streaky ba- con, butter and salt; when about half done, put them in a stew-pan, with a little blond, or veal gravy ; reduce the sauce, and serve very hot. Cauliflowers and. Butter.* — Pre- pare two cauliflowers, and when they are drained, cut them in pieces, and put them in a stew-pan, with a bit of butter, some salt, and lemon-juice; let them lw)il a little at first, then simmer; take care they are not done too much. Take them out, cover them with a sauce made with butter, worked with flour, the yolks of eggs, ana a little cream. Cauliflowers and Cheese.*—Make a saAice with cullis, a bit of butter, and pepper, but no salt. Put in a dish some grated Parmesan, or Gruyere cheese, place the cauliflower6(previouslywashed, picked and boiled) on this; pour the sauce over, and cover them with slices of Parmesan cheese, warmed, to make them adhere to the cauliflower. Colour it with a salamander. Cauliflowers, Fried.—Pick, wash, and throw them into boiling water, with a little salt, and when three parts done, take them out, drain and put them into an earthen pan, with salt, pepper and vinegar; beat them up in this, and then fry them in a batter made as follows: three spoonsful of flour, two eggs, a little salt, some oil, and a tea-spoonful of b.-andy. Cauliflowers Fried.*—When your cauliflowers are about three parts done. make a thick white sauce, in which toss | them up, and then let them cool; just i before wanted, dip them in batter, and i fry them in a hot pan; when of a nice | colour, serve them. They may also, | when boiled and drained, be soaked in Ij vinegar, salt, and pepper, in which they I! should be tossed up, instead of the white 1: sauce, and then fried. Cauliflowers d la Genoise.*—After | the cauliflowers are boiled, and are cold, ;, sprinkle them with Gruyere and Par- t inesan cheese grated; put them in a i dish, buttered and strewed with cheese, i; Cover the cauliflowersivith a thick white |i sauce, mixed with grated cheese. Strew , bread crumbs on this, then pour butter oyer, then more bread crumbs. Put the dish on hot ashes, and brown the tons. Cauliflowers and Grapy.*—Blanch and drain the cauliflowers, heat them up i in a little veal gravy or blond; when i done, place it on a dish, and add any | other gravy you may think proper. Be | careful not to break the cauliflower. Cauliflower Aoa/.*—Trim and par- i boil a fine cauliflower, then put it into | cold water, and drain it. Line the bot- i tom of a stewpan (of the size of the dish i you intend to use), with slices of bacon, i and place the cauliflower on them, witli i the head downwards. Make a stuffing \ with a fillet of veal, beef suet, parsley, t scallions, mushrooms,all chopped small, i salt, pepper, and three eggs; when these 1 are well mixed together, put it into the :i open spaces of the cauliflower, pressing ' iLin with the hand ; season it well, and i stew it with some stock. When the sauce I is consumed, turn the cauliflower out ' carefully on the dish, take, away the i bacon, and pour over it some cullis, with ( a little butter, and serve. C.tuLiFLOWERS d la Magnonnaise.*— i The cauliflowers, thoroughly washed and i cleared of their leaves, must be put into I boiling water, butter and salt: when i firm, take the saucepan from tlie fire, i and let the cauliflowers cool in the water. ! As soon as they are cold, drain and put ' them into oil, vinegar, salt, and a mig- nonette, to soak for two hours. Dish them in the form of a pyramid, as high i as you can; mask them with a white i magnonnaise, and place round them a border of aspic jelly, cut in triangles. Cauliflowers Pickled.— Pull the largest and closest cauliflowers into sprigs; put them into an earthen dish, and sprinkle salt over them. Let them stand twenty-four hours; then put tliem into a jar, and pour salt and boiling water over them. Cover them close, and let them smnd till next day; then take them out, and lay them on a coarseCE D 127 ) C E D cloth to drain. Put them into glass jars, witu a nutmeg sliced, and some mace in each. Cover them witli distilled vine- gar, and secure them from the air. They will be fit to cat in a montli. Another IVay.*^C.\\X. the cauliflowers in pieces, and throw them into boiling water for a oiiarter of an hour; then lay them on cloths to dr.ain. Put them in a jar with cloves and salt, and cover them with tlie best vinegar. CaoLiFLOWERS, Potuge of.* — Take two cauliflowers, boil, and then drain them, pressing them a little: then thicken a little bechamel maigre with the yolks of six eggs, and add a quarter of a pound of butter, salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; put in the cauliflowers; and when cold, divide them into pieces about the. size of a pigeon’s egg; roll them in flour, and fry them in clarified butter: drain, and put them in your soup tureen, and pour over them some rich consomme. Serve it with grated cheese in a separate dish. Cauliflowers {PagmU of).—Pull two small, or one large cauliflower into pieces, and stew them in a rich brown cullis, seasoned with pepper and salt; put them on a dish, and pour the cullis over them. Garnish with sprigs of cauliflower, boiled very white. Cauliflower.s cl la Reine.—Make a sauce with a little ham and fillet of veal cut in dice, a little butter, chopped pars- ley, shalot.s, and a clove of garlic: let it stew over the fire a little while, then add a few spoonsful of jelly-broth, and half a pint of cream ; reduce it to a good thick- ness, strain part of it into your dish, and place the cauliflower (properly prepared), therein; pour the remaining sauce over that: garnish with bread crumbs, and small bits of butter, and brown it in the oven. Cauliflowers in Salad.* — When you have prepared and boiled the cauli- flowers, drain and let them cool; cut them in pieces; season them with salt, pepper, oil and vinegar, and eat them as any other salad, CECILS. — Mix over the fire for a few minutes the following ingredients: minced meat of whatever kind you please, bread crumbs, plenty of onion, lemon- peel, nutmeg, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, a little butter, and some anchovies. When nearly cold, roll them up into balls about the size of an egg ; moisten them with egg; strew bread crumbs over tliem, and fry them of a good clear colour: serve ihem with made gravy. CEDRATS, Blancmange of. *—Grate tlie rind of a cedrat upon some sugar in the usual way, until six ounces of sugar have been used; blanch and pound a pound of sweet almonds, moistening them with water; when perfectly smooth, dilute them with five, glasses of water put in by degrees; then pour them in a napkin, and squeezing it, express the milk of almohds from them; divide this into two equal parts, with one of which mix the six ounces of sugar with the cedrat, and with the other portion, mix the same quantity of plain sugar ; as soon aa both are dissolved, strain them, and put in each half an ounce of isinglass: your mould being placed in ice, pour into it the white blancmange to three quarters of an inch in depth ; as soon as that is set, pour in an equal quantity of the other, which ought to be of a clear yel- low ; when that also is set, pour in some white, and so on alternately, till the mould is full. Turn out the blanc- mange as directed in Blancmange d la FranQoise. Blancmanges of the zestes of oranges, lemons, &c. are made in thi.s manner. Cedrat (Cmiscrve of).—Prepare half a pound of sugar to the ninth degree; put about an ounce of grated cedrat to it, and mix it; when the sugar is half cold, add a little lemon-juice, mix it well with a wooden spoon ; warm the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose; when It is cool, cut it in cakes of what size you please. Cedrat, Conserve of.*—Rub the rind of a fine sound cedrat on a piece of lump- sugar, scraping it as ynu proceed : dis- solve this sugar in lemon-juice. Boil sugar (a pound for each cedrat), to fort perle, then put in the cedrat and lemon, and proceed in the usual way. If you have not fresh cedrat, the preserved cedrat must be used as follows: pound half or a quarter of one of these fruits, pound and pass it through a sieve, and mix it with sugar boiled as above, and lemon-juice. Cedrat (Conserve of).*—Grate the rind of a cedrat all round, until the juice is ready to ooze out; this must be done by rubbing it against a large piece of sugar, (about a pound) ; remove the sur- face of this sugar to which the grated rind adheres, with a knife, and squeeze to it half the juice of the cedrat. Dis- solve tlie remainder of the sugar to the degree giwide plume, then take it from the fire, and when it has stood a little while, put in your cedrat, stirring it with a spoon, until a sort of ice forms on the top; you may then pour your conserve into moulds. Be careful not to put it in too hot. Cedrat Cream au Bain Marie.*—Rasp( 123 ) C E D C E D thfi rind of n cedrat on a pioop of sugar weigliing ten ounces, scrape oil’ the sur. face, and rasp again as usual; infuse this sugar in boiling milk; cover and let it stand till nearly cold, then mix it gra- dually with ten yolks, one whole egg, and a grain of salt. Strain, and linish as usual. See Cream uu Bain Marie. Cedrats, Distilled Cream of.*—Infuse the rinds of four very fine cedrats in three quarts of the best tirandy, and a pint of water; close the vessel tight, and let it stand several days. At the end of that time distil it in the bain marie. If tlie brandy is of the proper strength, the three quarts will yield two of the liquor ; to which put three pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints and a half of water; pass the whole through a straining bag, or filter it through pa- per. Oil of cedrats is made in the same manner, with the addition of a pound and a half more sugar, and half a pint of water. Cedkat Creamd laFran^oisc.*—Rasp the rinds of two cedrats on ten ounces of sugar ; which mix with the yolks of eight eggs, a gram of salt; add gradually five glasses of nearly boiling milk, stirring it constantly. The remainder of the operation is the same as in muking Caeao Cream d la Franfoise. Cedrat Cream Futissiere.*—Rasp the rind of a cedrat in the usual way, on a quarter of a pound of sugar; crush with tlie latter an equal weiglit of sweet and six bitter macaroons; add this mixture to the cream^ prepared as di- rected. See Cream Patissiere. Cedrats, Dried, fVhole or in Qttar- iers. — Take some preserved cedrats either whole or in quarters, wash fcliem in a little warm water ; boil some syrup in another pan, till it comes to blow; take a large spoon, and rub it well to the aides of the pan till it comes white ; dip your cedrats in, take them out and put them on wires over another pan ; let them drain well, tlien put them into a hot stove on the wires for one day, till the candy dries all round them; when well dried, put them into boxes, and lay a paper between every layer of cedrats. Cedrat Zeste, Fromage Davarois of.* —Take half a pound of lump sugar, rasp on it the zeste of cedrat, and ns the sur- lace of the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off, and rasp again; dissolve the sugar in two glasses of nearly boil- ing milk; cover it, and when nearly cold, mix with it six drachms of clarified isin- glass, then strain, and place it in a bol in ice ; and when it begins to take, add to it the cream, and finish as Fromuge Bavarois. Cedrat [Preserved) <}»7wises.*—Add to the usual ingredients (see Genoise), the peel of a cedrat, grated on the sugar used; when glazed, strew over them a quarter of a pound of preserved cedrat, cut small; dry them a minute or two in the oven. Cedrat Ices.—Take a piece of loaf sugar, and have a fresh and sound cedrat, which you must grate over a piece of paper, on the piece of loaf sugar, scrap- ing with a knife what sticks upon the sugar of the skin of the cedrat; wlien you have thus taken off the outer rind of the cedrat, by rasping or grating it on the sugar, take a little clarified sugar, boiled very fine, which add to the raspings or gratings of the cedrat, with what quan- tity of juice of lemon you think requi- site for the quantity of ices you intend making, and a little water; pass the whole through a sieve, then ice it, and finish the same as all other ices. Cedrat Ice Cream. — Take two large spoonsful of essence of cedrat, put it into a bason,squeeze in three lemons, and add one pint of cream; be careful that all the essence is melted ; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it accord- ing to custom. Cedrat fVater Ice.—Take four ounces of essence of cedrat, put it into a bason, and add to it the juice of three lemons, two gills of syrup, and half a pint of water; then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich, and if you would liave it in the shape of the cedrat, after you have filled your mould, close it well, and cover it with half a sheet of brown paper before you put it in the ice. Cedrats Zesies, Jelly of.* — Tal:e three quarters of a pound of Jump sugar, grate on it the zestesoi two cedrats. an(^ as the sugar becomes coloured, scrape it off with a knife, and grate again, and so on until all the zeste is gone; dissolve the scraped sugar in twoglasses of water, and, with the juice of four lemons. pa.ss it through a jelly hag. Clarify the remain- der of the sugar, and then put a fourth of it into a small preserving pan ; boil it to caramel height, to colour the jelly ; mix this, the fruit, the syrup, and an ounce of isinglass togctlier, and finish in the usual way. Cedrats IFbole, Liquid.—Get the oe- drats at the Italian warehnn-se ; make a hole through the middle of them at the thick end; put them in a larae pre- serving pan with water, and boil them one hour and a half; tlier. drain all the water from them; set them up end- ways, to drain the water out of theCEL ( 129 ) C ED ends; boil some syrup in a large pre- PCrving pan twenty minutes, then put the cedrats into a large earthen deep pan, pour the syrup over them, and let them stand two days before you touch them: then boil them with syrup half an hour; (do not let them be too soft), put tliem into the pan, and coyer them with paper; the next day drain the syrup from them, boil and pour it on them again, and repeat it so for ten days, al- ways keeping them covered with syrup; when done, put them into your pots, and when cold cover them with apple jelly ; take care your pots are dry. Cedrat Made/aines.*—Grate on some sugar the rinds of two cedrats ; crush this sugar, and mix it with as much powder sugar as will make together nine ounces; put it into astewpan with half a pound of sifted flour, six whole and four yolks of eggs, two spoonsful of Andaye brandy, and a little salt; stir this mixture well, nntil the paste is formed, after which stir it one minute, but no longer. When your moulds are buttered, put nine I ounces of clarified butter into the pre- paration, which must be placed over a very slow fire, stirring it lightly, and as soon as it becomes liquid, pour a spoon- ful into each mould, and bake them in a I moderate oven. Instead of cedrats may be substituted the rind of oranges, (sweet or Seville), lemons, or crisped orange flowers. Cedrat (preserved) Madelaines.*— Cut two ounces of preserved cedrat into small equal sized pieces, which mix with the paste when about to be put into the moulds. No other odour must be put in. Cedrat Pudding, eri Timbale.*—Cnt tlie crumb of a roll into slices, and pour over them two glasses of boiling milk, set it on the fire, and stir it constantly, till it becomes a very spongy paste; then rub it in a mortar with six yolks and two whole eggs. Put this paste into a sauce- pan, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, (on which the zeste of a cedrat has been rasped), two ounces of bitter macaroons, three ot dried currants, three of raisins, stoned, and cut in half, six of marrow, shred fine, half a glass of Madeira, a pinch ol salt, and a quarter of a nutmeg grated. When these ingredients are well mixed together, pour them into a butter- ed mould, and bake it for an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Cedrat /V%ter.—Take a large wooden ■spoonful of the essence of cedrat, put it ■m a bason, squeeze three lemons; add ■ three gills of syrup, and a suflicient ■ quantity of water; make it according to ■ your taste, be careful that all the essence is melted ; and if it is not rich cnquglij add more syrup; pass it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Cedrat JValer, — Take the yellow rinds of five cedrats, a gallon of proof spirit, and two quarts of water, digest the whole in a vessel close stopped for twen- ty-four hours, then draw ofl' one gallon, and sweeten with fine sugar. Another ivaij.*—Distil in an alembic bainmurie, the rinds of four cedrats and one lemon, in three pints of brandy ; from this you may draw nearly a pint and ahaMol liquetir. Dissolve two pounds of refined sugar in a pint of pure river water, mix it with the liqueur, filter and bottle it. Celerv.—This root is generally put into soups, but very little is sufficient, as the flavour is much stronger than other vegetables. To make a ragofit for meat with it, soak and wash it well in cold water ; then boil for half an hour, and shift it into cold water ; drain it well, and stew it with some stock and cullis ; take the fat offi, season, and serve it. When very white and tender it is eaten raw ; and as a salad, with salt, pepper, oil, vinegar and mustard. _ Celery Cream.—Put half a pint of cream and a pint of milk into a stewpan, with nearly a quarter of a pound of sugar, and let it boil till a third is consumed ; take two heads of celery, let them boil in the cream just time enough to flavour it. Strain the cream and beat up with it the yolks of five eggs, a little flour, and set it in hot water over the fire, taking care it does not boil. If you wish to serve it cold, put in neither eggs nor flour, .but when the cream is strained, and is lukewarm, mix it with runnet, strain and put it into a dish for table; set it over hot embers, put a cover over, and hot embers on that, and let it re- main till the cream is set; keep it in a cool place till ready to serve. Celery Cream.* — Cut two well- washed heads of celery into small pieces, and boil them in half a pint of water; strain the decoction, and add to it a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a little coriander and cinnamon, the gtsfe of a lemon, and a spoonful of orange-flower- water; reduce it over the fire, to half the quantity, and whilst the cream is lukewarm, put in some gizzards, chopped very small; stir them well in, and then strain it; place it in hot cinders, cover It, and put fire also on the top ; when the cream is set, place it on ice to cool. Celery, —Blanch the heart and white leaves of celery, and stew it in a little stock ; dry it in cloths ; cut itCEL CEL ( 130 ) in piect^g, and dip tlifMTi in good plain batter, and fry them. Sprinkle salt over them when you serve. Another (V%y.—Wash and cut oil' the green top.s of six or eight heads of fine celery, and dip each head into batter made as follows: a pint of white wine, the yolks of three eggs beat fine, a little salt and nutmeg; fry the heads in but- ter. Serve with melted butter over. Celery Fritters.* — Take about a dozen heads of celery, and cut them six inches above the roots, which must be rounded ; wash them well, blaneti them for a quarter of an hour, then let them cool and drain; lie them up in four packets ; line a stew-pan with slices of bacon, and put on them your celery, a bunch of herbs, seasoned with salt, and moistened with skimmings of the pot, cover them with bacon and paper; stew them, and when done drain and press them. Then soak them in brandy and sugar ; dip them in batter, and fry them. Drain, glaze, and serve them. CELRRY/or Garniture*—For this pur- pose the heart and wliite leaves only must be used. Brown in a stewpan, a little fat, and a spoonful of flour ; add a small quantity of stock, parsley, salt, and pepper. Let it boil a quarter of an hour, then put in the celery, and some gravy, and reduce them over the fire. Celery au Gratin.—Take a dozen heads of white celeiy,trimofi‘the stringy parts, and cut the rest into pieces about the size of a shilling; boil them tender, and then stew them in good gonsom/nS, witii a bit of butter, a little sugar and salt. When nearly done drain and toss them up in some becliamelle, with the yolk of an egg; put them in a dish, and shake some fine bread crumbs over, and with a spoon sprinkle some clarified but- ter on that, and then bread-crumbs again. Brown it with a salamander. Celery, {Puree of).—Cut the whitest part of several heads of celery, and blanch them in water to take out the bitter taste ; let it cool and drain. Then put it into a stewpan, with a little, consomme and sugar. Let it stew for an hour and a half, and be reduced till no moisture remains, then mix it with four spoonsful of bechnmetle or veloute; strain the whole through a tammy, and put it in the bain marie. When ready to serve, put in a little thick cream. Celery (Rueotlt of).—Cut the white part into lengths, and boil it till tender, fry and drain, and flour it, put it into some rich gravy, a little red wine, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and catsup. Boil it up. C ELF, a.\ Sauce.—Cut a dozen heads of fine celery into pieces about the size of a shilling; blanch, and pnt them into a small stewpan, with consomme enouirh to cover them, a small bit of butter, a little sugar and salt, and lay a round paper oyer the whole; let them wew gently, I till nearly done, then shake them up in I beohmnelle sauce. Second fFay.—C\it boiled celery into pieces two inches long; put them into a stew-pan with some veal gravy which tastes strong of spices and herbs, thicken it with three quarters of a pound of but- I ter rolled in flour, and lialf a pint of cream ; boil it up, and squeeze in some lemorr-juicp. Third JVay.*—Blanch about a pound of fillet of veal in some stock; stick it with stalks of celery, in the same manner as larding it; slice some onions into a ; stewpan. also two carrots, and a small | piece of bacon stuck with cloves, lay in i the veal, and let it stew gently till it i begins to burn, and stick to the bottom i| of the pan ; then put in a little stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for three u hours. Pass it through an unbleached *- napkin, and serve with whatever meat i; you please. Garnish your dish with the i. veal, cut in pieces, and laid round. Celery Sauce, {Brmvn).—Cut into lengths as before; boil and drain it; put in in some good gravy, with a little flour mixed in smooth, a little ketsup, pep- per, salt, and nutmeg; boil all up to- gether. Celery Soup.—Neatly trim and wa-'h i two dezen heads of fine celery, split each i in two, and put them to blanch in a large stew-pan of water with plenty of salt; ' when tender drain them on a sieve, and H stir the soup over the fire, with about ! three ounces of butter, and a very little i sugar and salt. When the butter begins i to look clear, mix in a ladleof consomme, m' when that has boiled for a few minutes !j andthecelery is perfectly mashed, stir : in three table-spoonsful oNauce tournee, ! and when this is well boiled rub the i whole through a tammy; add a pint of strong consommee, and nearly as much thick cream. Put it into the soup pot, and half an hour before you want it, set ■ it on the fire to boil, and skim it. Serve ■ it with celery cut round, blanched and i ' stewed. If you wish the soup to be brown instead of white, use espagnolc, and no cream. Celery Sfeim/.—Boil till tender the white part, and cut it in pieces; stir some cream over the fire, with two yolks of eggs,putin the celery, salt, pepper, mace, and grated lemon-peel; shake all to- I gether. but do not let it boil. Another Ji'ay.—TioWA dozen heads of ! fine celery in salt and water till nearly I( 131 ) C H A C II A done; then set them to stew between lards of fat bacon, willi consmnme eunugb to cover them ; when very tender drain them on a sieve, and serve with good bvchamelle sauce. Celery on Tbast!. — Cut some well buttered toast into pieces about three inches square, lay on them celery stewed according to the second receipt, and serve it to table. CHA.MBORD. — This is a ragoflt made of cock’s-combs, cock’s kidneys, fat livers, and fowl’s eggs. The combs must be scalded as follows:—Put them into a towel with coarse salt, then hold- ing each corner of the towel, dip the part containing the combs into boiling water, leave it in for a minute, and then take it out and rub the rvhole together, to take oil' the first skin that is about the combs, and open your towel; if the combs be not sufficiently skinned, dip them into boiling water a second time, but they must not get too firm, as ttiat will pre- \’ent their whitening. When properly skinned, pare the little black points that tlie blood may be taken out. Put them into a pint of water and let them lay on a corner of the stove with very little fire, for two hours ; then blanch and put them into a little itoc; take care not to do them too much; the kidneys must not boil, as they would break ; boil the eggs a little to take off the first skin, throw the whole into blanc, and when the combs are done, have ready some espag- note, and a pint of Madeira (both reduced and then mixed together), with large mushrooms turned, and some small gttenelles, which have been poached se- parately. Mix all together, and drain the ragofit, tlie combs, the kidneys, and tlie eggs. Put the whole into the sauce Tvith the qu6nelles \ stir gently, not to break the latter; season it well. Add to the above, a garnish of soft roes of carp, some good-sized cray-fish, and two spoonsful of essence of anchovies. To poach the quenelles, two must be used, fill one yvith the farce which has been levelled all round with a knife dipped into boiling water. With the other spoon, which is also lying in boiling water, take the que- nelle out, and puttliem into a buttered stewpan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. A small quantity of salt is re- quired in the water. CHAN’l'lLLY liaskei,—Dip some ra- tafia cakes into clarified sugar boiled to caramel lieiglit; place them round the inside of a dish ; then cut more ratafia cakes into squares, dip tliem also into sugar, and pile them corner-ways on tlie row, and so on for two or three stories high. Line the inside with wafer-paper, and fill it with sponge biscuit, sweet- meals, blanched almonds, or some made cream; put trifle over that, and garnish the frotli with rose-leaves, coloured corn- fits, or caramel sugar thrown lightly over the top. „ . CHAR.—Cleanse them, cut off the fins, tails, and heads, and lay them in rows in a long baking-pan, first season- ing them with pepper, salt, and mace. When done, let tlieni stand till cold, pot them, and pour clarified butter over. CHARD augras*—Blanch and dress them the same as celery; boil them quickly in water, with salt and a little butter; drain and put them in a stew- pan, with butter worked up with flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and blond. When nearly done, add a little verjuice or vine- gar ; thicken the sauce, and serve quite hot. Chards d la Venitienne.—Prepare the chaids the same as Chards au gras, and finish in the same manner as for Cardoorts and Cheese. CHARLOTTE Cut a sufficient number of thin slices of white bread to cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking-dish, first rubbing it thickly with butter. Put thin slices of apples into the dish in layers, till the di»h is full, strewing sugar and bits of butter between. In the mean lime, soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk; over which place a plate, and a weight, to keep the bread close upon the apples; let it bake slowly for three hours. For a middling-sized dish, yon should use half a pound of butter for the whole. Charlotte — This entremets may be made of any kind of fruit you ple.ase, and is eaten hot. If apples are used, pare, core, ami cut about a score of them into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan with some water, a good piece of fresh butter, powder-sugar, pounded cinnamon, and grated lemon- peel, and stew till the water is dried up; then set tliem to cool in an earthenware vessel. Cut some very thin slices of ernmh ofbread, dip them in melted fresh butter, and lay them neatly all over the bottom and round the sides of the stew- pan ; then pour in the apples, leaving a hole in the middle, in which put apricot marmalade. Cover the whole with bread, sliced thin, and buttered as above. Place it in a hot oven, bake it an hour, and turn it out. Another way.*—Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom, and line tlie sides ofa baking, dish nibbed with butter. Slice apples thin, place them on the bread, strewC II A ( l.'>2 ) C II A 1 powdor-siigar over, and bits of butter: then put a layer of apples, sii(?ar, and butter, and so on till you have filled the dish. Have ready some bread, cut thin and snaked in warm milk ; lay a plate on ^e Cliailotte, and a weii^bt on that. Bake it in a slow oven for three hours. Half a pound of butter is the proper quantity. CwAiifiOTTE d la FratiQotse.* — This charlotte is made in the same way as that d la Parisimne, only that croquettes d la Parisienne, and a cream blanc- mange are used, instead of the biscuits snAfromage bavarois. Finish it in the same way. Chaulotte d f’/fnfi'eMne. *—Make a small of rum genoises, cut in pieces like spoon-biscuits, with which line a plain round mould, fill the char- lotte with rum cre&ra-plombiere, with the addition of four drachms of clarified isinglass; cover the cream with genoises, and finish it in the usual way. Charlotte d la Parisienne*—Take a quarter of a pound of well glazed spoon- biscuits, and a small case of green pista- chio biscuits, which must be cut in thin slices, and then formed into lozenges ; arrange these at the bottom of a plain oc- tagon mould, in the form of a star, and •with the remainder cover the sides of the mould, placing them upright, and the glazed sides next the mould; fill the in- terior with a vanilla frrmage-iavarois, but do not put it in till the moment be- fore it is sent to table ; then cover the Jrosnage with biscuits^ and surround the mould with pounded ice for about forty minutes, then turn it on a dish for table. Chartreuse.—Prepare some apples, and place them in a dish like apples d la Turque, in a puree ; pare and quarter and trim a dozen nonpareils, stew them in sugar as for a compote. Warm some currant jelly and apricot jam, dip the quarters alternately into each, and place them on the apples according to your taste. Warm tlie whole very gently. Chartreuse^ d la Parisienne en sur- prise.*—Boil eight fine truffles in some white wine, and when cold, skin and cut them lengthwise with a root cutter, half an inch in diameter ; then take a hundred cray-fish tails, (or carrots pre- paredas for chartreuseprintanier), trim, and lay them at the bottom of a but- tered mould, on them place the truffles round the sides of the mould, so as to form an crnamental border, of some open, pleasing pattern, the spaces be- tween the truffles being filled with the filets mignons of chickens, ptevioiisly browned in butter, and properly trimmed. On the top of this border lay a crown or ring of the ctay-fish tails to correspond with the bottom, and cover the whole to the thickness of an inch, with a que- nelle farce, pretty firm ; then fill the middle with a blanquelte of fowl, veal or lamb sweetbread, or a ragobt, or any thing else you may think proper, leaving three quarters of an inch space at the top, which must be filled with a farce ; cover the whole with a buttered paper, and put it in the bain-marie for an hour atid a half. When turned out of the mould, make a crown of small while champignons, lay this on tlie top near the edge, and in the centre a single champignon, round which place eight filets mignons, in the form of a rosette. Chartreuse Printannier.* — SciTipe | two bunches of carrots and two of turnips, and then cut them into pieces, about two inches long and three quarters of an inch in diameter, and throw them into cold water; blanch them, and then separate them. When cold, put them into some good stock w'ith a small quantity of su- gar, and set them on the edge of tlie stove until nearly done, when they should be placed over a hot stove. In the meanwhile take the trimming of the carrots and turnips, a dozen onions, with a few cloves, six heaos of celery^ and two lettuces, moisten them with . some good stock, and let the whole sim- mer gently, skimming it well, until the vegetables are thoroughly done; then strain the liquor from them ; and when it has stood a little time, strain it again, so that it may be quite clear, then stir up with it some espagnole. Take three small cabbages cut into quarters, blanch them, open each quar- ter, and season it with a little salt; tie them up. and put them in a stewpan, lined with ham and bacon, with a sau- sage, a piece of bacon, two small par- tridges larded, parsley, and green onions, season the whole, amJ cover it with slices of bacon, moisten it with poeic or coru- somme, and let it stew over a gentle fire for two hours. Whilst the above is cooking, drain the carrots and turnips, and place them ac- cording to fancy in a buttered mould, so as to cover the sides and bottom com- pletely ; then drain the cabbages in a cullender, and press the other ingre- dients in a napkin ; trim the b.icon, and cut the sausages into thin slices; lay tlie cabbages lightly in the mould ; then tl»e bacon and sausages like a cord; tbea place the partridges, breasts downwards, the bacon and sausages on them, and fill the mould (making the top quite flat) with the cabbages; lay a buttered paperC II E ( 133 ) CHE over the whole, and put it into the bain- marie for an hnur. Before it is turned from the mould let it drain well; when ready for table, the dish and chartreuse may be ornamented in various ways, ac- cording to fancy. CHEESE.—To select good cheese is a department of marketing that reqiiire.s great judgment; a nice palate, and a sensitive nose are the two chief requisites; but the eye is a necessary organ, not only for detecting what escapes the en- quiry of these senses, as mites, decay, &c., but with good judges it will usually tell a prime cheese from an indifferent one, by the texture and colour alone. In choosing this necessary article, at- tention must be paid to the appearance of the rind. Ciieshire cheese, from a good dairy, is in its prime at two years, provided it has been well kept. A damp storehouse produces premature decay, and fills it with mites. Cheese, even of the finest quality, is apt to deceive those unacquainted with the article, both in taste and smell, when judging by the taster, or when first cut, as it will frequently possess a strong and Knpleasant flavour, although in a few days after being cut, exposure to the air will render it pure and agreeable to the smell and taste. It is hence the custom with experienced caterers to lay in a stock of Che.shire cheese, and to keep it in a dry cellar in saw-dust, in a box, by which,in two or three months,it improves, and is fit to cut. It is then well to divide it into two parts, or to take out a fourth, according to its size; spread butter on the part to be reserved, and keep it in a dry place ; that for use should be ex- posed in the larder on the cheese shelf, three or four days, nvhen it will be ready for the table. A certain late worthy Al- derman and Vintner, famed for his know- ledge of the larder, for many years was accustomed to put Cheshire cheeses in a sack, cover 'them with a basket, and bury them under his summer stock of coals, and in the winter, as they reduced, he used to say, “ Now is the time for my old Che.'hire.’' No cheese of equal fla- vour, perhaps, was eaten in the city of London. We speak of Cheshire, jiar excellence., as the most piquant and fine-flavoured of English cheese, although the modern gourmands are pleased to designate the Stilton cheese the British Parmesan. Good Stilton, however,such as may be purchasedatCulliim’s in OldBond-street, IS a treat for the most refined palate, and IS generally preferred at the tables of the great, even by those Ainphytrions, whose authority few will be liardy enough to dispute. Stilton cheese, made in May or June, is usually served at table at Christmas. If made at a capital dairy, however, it is in better order at ten, or even twelve months, or, if well managed, even at a later period. It is customary with certain tavern- keepers to produce an artificial ripeness on Stilton, to please those pseudo con- noisseurs, their vain customers, who boast loudly of their superior taste in these matters, when in the chair, and who verify the couplet of the inimitable poet— “ Doubtless the pleasure is as great In being cheated as to cheat.” Mine host, manages the matter thus :— A Stilton, with a rugged and picturesque coat, is tapped, and in the aperture is inserted a small piece of mite-touched old Cheshire, and then stopped with a wet cloth. In three weeks or a month it is ripe enough, and relished by the con- vives with its concomitant, a glass of port, as a bonne bouche fit for the gods! Certain epicures are _ accustomed to make a conical excavation on the top of a Stilton, and to pour therein from two to four glasses, or even more, of port, claret, or Madeira wine, which being absorbed for three weeks or a month, they maintain, improves its flavour. There is no disputing with a variety of tastes. On some occasions an accidental flavour may be thus attained, which may be palatable; but, on the authority of one of the best judges of these matters, we venture to say, that many a prime Stilton has been spoiled by such whimsical practices; and we are assured, as well by the dairyman, cheesemonger, and is that the first cooks, that the finest Stilton, which ripens without any artificial aid. North 'Wiltshire cheese has long ac- quired deserved celebrity, being rich, and of fine flavour ; the.=e are fit for the table at nine months, hut, if carefully kept, they are in perfection at twelve months. Double Gloucester, is also a cheese in great repute, and if made at a good dairy is in prime order from nine to twelve months. This makes an excellent tVelch rabbit, and is capital for a stew, if care- fully dressed in a cheese-toaster. Single Gloucester, which, when sne- cesslully made, is of a line delicate fla- vour, is generally used at the taverns for 9. Welch rabbit. It is fit for the table in five or six months. Derby cheese, however, tvhen front NCUE CUE 134 the best dailies, being of a delicate fla- vour, and agreeable texture, is preferred to all others, by the cagnosceuti, for toasting. A Welch rabbit, capitally cooked, of Derbyshire cheese, is served with eclat at the best appointed tables. Cheddar cheese is also in high esteem at the best tables. It is in its prime from nine to twelve months, Dunlop cheese, made in the parish of Dunlop, in Ayrshire, is in high esteem at the first Scottish tables, and is consi- dered a handsome pi-esent to an English family; and due honours arc paid to the Ayrshire dairies,asoften as it is set upon the English board. The Great Unknown has celebrated the Dunlop cheese in his “ Heart of Mid Lothian.’’ Of cream cheeses, there are various sorts, and for which the English dairies are famed. Amongst others, the Cotten- ham, when in its prime, is of delicious flavour. The Bath cream cheese is also delectable, and others, which are eaten equally new, particularly those from a certain town in Bedfordshire, the name of which we do not recollect ; these, and many more of excellent quality, are thin in form; the Stilton is also a cream cheese, tliough amongst the thickest that come from an English dairy. Of foreign cheese, the Parmesan, which being first made_ at Parma, in Italy, hence derives its name, still maintains pre-eminence over all others. The manufacture of this cheese was formerly confined to the dairies of Parma and Piacenza; and where, for a long period, the best were made; of late, however, the district of Lodi is most celebrated for this cheese. The Gruyere from Switzerland, the Rochefort, made of ewes’ milk, and the Neufchatel from France, are cheeses, served as delicacies upon an English table; but the true English Cheshire is held superior to all these, even by the learned gastronomists of Paris. In having the care of the cheese for the parlour, or for the family in general, says an anonymous writer, let a broad hanging shelf be hung, either in the wine or strong beer, cellar, .as neither rats nor mice can then get at the cheese. If you keep cream cheeses, put them between two plates or dishes to ripen, v;ith some fresh leaves from the garden, and turn them every morning; and for ^1 other cheeses have a rack or two ofadc in the cellar, for it will be a means m improving them daily. A large space in the rack should be left for the Che- shire, brick-bat. and dolphin cheeses, ike. &c.; and nothing iipproves them^ or makes them go farther, than putting three or four on each pipe or cask of wine, and brushing and turning them every week ; but if ihere are no casks of wine, put them on the tops of the strong beer casks. Cheefe, even of an inferior quality, if thus managed, will become much richer, fine, and mellow. They must he turned alternately. The cheese should not be brought from the rack to the parlour, but at the mr»- inent it is wanted, and should be return- ed to the rack as soon as taken from table. Be careful to use those that are ripe and mellow first. Cheeses of all sorts, are known to be the best which have smooth thin coats, and those chosen which are the heaviest; for, although they be of the same size, yet they difler materially in that point; as all fat, good cheese is tlie heaviest. The round Dhtch cheese, of the best quality, and not too salt, which is a com- mon failing with them, is not unfre- quently used for toasting, and with suc- cess. This, and other cheeses, made of skim milk, are considered better for that purpose, and eat richer and more agree- ably to the palate than even the best North Wiltshire, indubitably one of the richest of English cheeses. The fatly richness of this material, constitutes not the desired properties for toasting, as the inferior cheeses are, when toasted, found to be richer, softer in consistence, less ropy, and superior in flavour, than even Stilton. Cheeses that hecome tainted with mites, are recommended by a Derby- shire lady, well acquainted with the oper- ations of the dairy, to be wiped, and then put into a pot in which mutton has been cooked, whilst the water is yet but, and made ta boil a few seconds, then to be taken out, immediately wiped, dried, and put away in a dry place. Cheese, Artificial.—Take a gallon of new milk, two quarts of cream, nutmeg, mace, and cinnamon, all well pounded; boil these in milk; then put in eight eggs, six or eight spoonsful of wine vine- gar to turn the milk; let it boil tdl it comes to .a tender curd ; tie it up in a cheese-cloth, and let it hang six er eight hours to drain ; tlien open it, take out the spice, sweeten it with sugar and rose- water; put it into a cullender, let it stand an hour more, then turn it out, and serve it up in a dish, with cream under it. Cheese Brioche,*—Make a Iriorhcin the usual way, and when rc.ady (cr bak- ing, spread it over the board, and sticw over it some Gruyere cheese, cut into dice, in the proportion of a quarter ol a pound of cheese to a pound of briocheCUE ( 135 ) C H E paste. Roll it out as usual, take oil about an eighth part, and put the largest portion into the mould or case, dorfiz it; then take tlie remainder of the brioche and place it on the top, so as to form a sort of head to the other; dorez and trim it. When it has been in the oven about two hours, take it out gently, and if the iiead be not detached from the rest, re- move it lightly, lay paper over, and replace it in the oven as quickly as you can, to finish the baking. Cheese, Cake of*—Take about the fourth part of a close, fat Brie cheese, pound and rub it through a sieve; mix with it a pint and a half of flour ; lay it on the board, make a hole in the middle, into which put three quarters of a pound of butter, and work it in well; add to it a little Gruyere cheese grated, and six eggs. Knead these all together well; mould it up, and let it stand for half an hour ; then roll it out, and make it into a cake of about three inches; mark it with-a knife on one side in chequers, and on the other in rays; dorez, and bake it in a moderate oven. Cheshiue Cheese, to imitate. — The milk being set, and the curd being come, do not break it with a dish, as is cus- tomary in other cheese, but draw it to- gether with your hands to one side of the vessel, breaking it gently and regularly; for if it be pressed roughly, a great deal of the richness of the milk will go into the whey. Put the curd into the cheese- yat or mote as you gather it, and when it is full, salt it at different times ; press it, and turn it often. The thickness of these cheeses must be about seven or eight inches, and they will be fit to cut in about twelve months. You must turn and shift them frequently upon a shelf, and rub them with a dry coarse cloth. At the year’s end, you may bore a hole in the middle, and pour in a quarter of a pint of sack, then stop the hole close with some of the same cheese, and set it in a wine cellar for six months to mellow ; at the expiration of which you will find the sack all lost, and the hole in a manner closed up. If this cheese be properly managed, iis flavour will be pleasant and grateful, and it will eat exceedingly fine and rich. Cheese ( Crab).*—Cut some thin slices of any rich cheese, as Cheshire, double Gloucester, &c. and press them well with a knife, until you can spread it like but- ter. Then mix up with it, mustard, common and chili vinegar, cayenne pep- per, salt, essence of anchovies, and any other fish sauce you think proper. Miic all together thoroughly to a thick pulp. Cheese Cream, — To three pints of raw cream put a suflicient quantity of salt to season it; stir it well; fold a cheese-cloth three or four times, and lay it at the bottom of a_ sieve, and pour your cream into it. When it hardens, cover it'with nettles on a pewter plate. Cheese Cream.—Make a pint of good milk liikcwarin, and stir in a bit of ren- net about the size of a pea, previously diluted with some of the milk; put it over a few hot embers, and cover it with fire at the top ; when the curd is set, put it into a little osier basket, made for the piirpo.se, and well drained, turn it into a dessert dish ; serve with good cream, and fine sugar over it. Cheese Cream. — Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two spoonsful of rennet. VYhen the curd is produced, strike it down a few times with the skimming- dish, to break it. Leave it to stand two hours, then spread a cheese cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat, with a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand for twelve hours; take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn it from one board to another every day, till it is dry ; cover with nettles or clean dock leaves, and put it to ripen between two pewter- plates. If the weather is ivarra, it will be ready in three weeks. Cheese Cream.—?oX twelve quarts of new milk and a quart of cream together, with rennet just suflicient to turn it, and let the milk and cream be just warm. When it has stood till the curd has come; lay a cloth in the vat, which must be made of a size proportionate to the cheese. Cut out the curd with a skimming-disli, and put it into the vat till it is full, turning the cheese-cloth over it; and as the curd settles, lay more on, till you have laid on as much as will make one cheese. When the whey is drained olf, turn tl>e cheese into a dry cloth, and then lay upon it a pound weight. At night, turn it out into another cloth, and the next morning salt it a little. Then, having made a bed of nettles or ash leaves to lay it on, cover it with the same, shifting it twice a day, for about ten days, when it may be brought to table.. Cheese Cream, a Plain Family TVay, —Warm three half pints of cream with one half pint of milk, or according to tlve same proportion, and put a little rennet to it; keep it covered in a warm place till it is curdled; have a proper mould with holes, either of china or any other ; put the curds into it to drain, about an liour, or less; serve with a good plain cream, and pounded sugar over it.lofi CUE CUE fVith JFhipt Cream.—Vaia. good pinch of giim-dnigon powder into a quart of cream ; whip it till it is quite thick witli line rasped lemon-peel; pour it into a cloth-strainer, ora piece of muslin; drain it thus in a basket, and serve it the same as the first. Cheese Cream Iced.—Boil a pint of good cream, then put half a pound of sugar to it, abor.t a dozen of sweet al- monds pounded, a little preserved orange- flowers, or orange-flower water, and rasped lemon-peel; boil together a few minutes ; when you take it oil the fire, add five yolks of eggs beat up, and stir it continually till they are well ihixcd with the cream ; strain it in a sicH'e, and put it into the icing-pot, when it is pretty much much iced, work it well to put it into cheese-moulds ; ice it again, and serve as usual, it is also done with coflee and chocolate, in the same manner as the ices, only that each is thickened with four or five yolks of eggs, as directed in the first, and moulded like a cheese, which gives it the name. Cheese Cream, Iced a la Bourgeoise.* —Boil a pint of very good thick cream with half a pint of milk, the yolk of an egg, three quarters of a pound of sugar ; when it has boiled up five or six times, take it off the fire, and flavour itwith any aromatic, either orange-flower, berga- mot, or lemon; pour the preparation into tin moulds to ice ; put these moulds into little pails, having first put at the bottom of your pails some ice, well pounded, with some salt or saltpetre, and place ice and saltpetre all round your moulds, till it I'eaches the top of the mould. When the cheese is iced, and you are ready to serve it, dip your moulds in warm water to loosen the dieese from the moulds ; then turn your cheeses into a dish. They should be eaten the moment they are served. Cheese Cream, and Marmalade. — Boil a pint of cream ; mix with it a few spoonsful of any kind of marmalade you please, and a little dried preserved lemon-peel, chopped fine; when it is but-just milk-warm, put some rennet to it, and serve it with pounded sugar over it. Cheese Cream d la Princesse.*—Boil a pint of cream with a pint of milk, two grains of salt, a little grated lemon-peel, a little coriander, a little cinnamon, three ounces of sugar; let the. whole boil until reduced to half, then take it oil' the fire; and when it is lukewarm, throw into it a piece of rennet (a little larger than a pea), mixed with a spoonful of water; pass the cream through a sieve, and then put it over some warm ashes; when the curd i.s produced, put it into a little osier basket to drain, atid when it has taken the form of a cheese, turn it into a dish. Cheese Cream IVUipped. * — Chop very tine a piece of gieen lemon-peel, and put it into an earthen pan with a pint and a half of good thick cream, and a piece of gum-dragon, about the size of a pea, powdered ; whip your cream, and as the whip rises, take it oil' with the skimmer, and put it in an osier basket; if the basket is not very close, you must put a piece of muslin in it; when the cream i.s all whipped, and it is sufficiently drained, serve it on a dish with powdered sugar over it. Cheese Curd Florentine.—Break to pieces two pounds of cheese-curd, take a pound of blanched almonds finely pounded, with a little rose water, half a pound of currants, clean washed and picked, some stewed spinach, cut small; sweeten itwith some sugar; mix it all well together; lay a pull-paste in the dish, put in the ingredients, cover it with a thin crust rolled and laid across; bake it in a moderate oven : it takes half an hour; the top crust may be cut any shape. Cheese Curd Pudding. — Take the curd from a gallon of milk, turned with rennet; drain off the milk completely, and beat it in a mortar, with half a pound of fresh butter; strain to this the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten, add two Naples biscuits, or lialf a small roll grated, and sweeten the whole ; put it into buttered tins, and bake'in a moderate oven; when done, turn them icto a dish, and garnish with citron, candied orange-peel, and blaarb- ed almonds, cut in slips ; sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them with melted butter and a little sack. Cheese Entrees. — Parmesan cheese should be made use of for entrees, and it should be grated, and the meat or fish with w'hich it is served should be dressed a la braise, or cn ragout; very little salt must be used in the sauce or meat, as Parmesan is in itself very salt. Put into the bottom of the dish in which you are going to serve your meat, some of the sauce you intend to use with your meat, then strew with grated cheese; place your meat upon this, pour over the re- mainder of ynur sauce, and cover the whole with Parmesan. Then put it in an oven, or under a baking pan to brown, and serve it with thick sauce. Cauliflowers and Spanish cardoons may be served in the same manner for entremets. Cheese, Fondue of.—Make a sort of pap with half a pint of cre.am, or good( 137 ) CHE CUE milk and potatoe flour; add a little salt. When the pap is boiled enough, put to it four yolks of eggs, half a pound of grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese; and lastly, four whites of eggs, whipped till en ncige. Stir the whole well together. Next, pour the pap into a mould, place it over a stove covered with a lid, and fire on the top. It will be done enough in ten minutes, when it should be quickly served and eaten. Cheese, Fresh.—Take two quarts of raw cream, sweeten it with sugar ; boil it, then put in some damask-rose* nater, keep it stirring, that it may not burn ; when it is thickened and turned, take it off the fire : wash the strainer and cheese- vat with rose-water; then roll your curd backwards and forwards in the strainer to drain the whey from it, then put the curd, with a spoon, into the vat; as soon as it is cold, slip it into the cheese-dish with some of the whey, and serve it up. Cheese Fritters.*—VaX. some milk, butter, mild Brie or Gruyere cheese into a saucepan; add to these ingredients flour, and afterwards eggs and sugar; make it into a paste, of which form your fritters; fry them of a nice colour, and serve them sprinkled with sugar. A small quantity of orange-flowers may be added. Cheese {Parmesan) Fondits.*—Put a pound of butter, and half a pound of potatoe flour; stir them together well ; add to them five or six glasses of good cream nearly boiling, a pound of Par- mesan cheese grated, half a pound of Gruyere cheese grated, a small spoonful o( mignonette, a.nd a spoonful of powder sugar. Set it aver a moderate fire, stir- ring it constantly; add the fifteen yolks, and a large plateful of whipped cream, well drained, then the whites whipped firm; pour this preparation into small paper cases as quickly as possible, and bake them for fifteen or twenty minutes. Cheese OT Iced Butter.—Boil lor a few minutes a pint of cream, with some rasped lemon-peel, and a good spoonful of orange flower-water; when taken off the fire, add a dozen yolks of eggs well beat up, and mix together without boil- ing ; silt through a sieve, and put into an icing pot to freeze, working it the same as ices ; it must be iced in such a manner that you may take it with a spoon to serve, like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clear ice between to appear like crystals. Cheese Inedd la Chantilly.—It is pre- pared the same as Cream Cheese Iced, and put to ice in moulds ; beat up a pint of cream to a froth, add rasped lemon- peel. a pound of pounded sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; serve the froth upon the cheese, raised as high as possible ; you may, if you clioose, ice the froth a little. Cheese, {Parmesan) Ice Cream.—Take six eggs, half a pint of syrup, and a pint ofcreaiB; put them into a slewpan, and boil them until they begin to thicken; then rasp tliree ounces of Parmesan cheese, mix the whole well together,and pass it through a sieve; tlieii freeze it according to custom. Cheese, Iced, of my sortof Marmaaide. —They are made in the same manner as Cream Cheese Iced; when the cream and eggs are well mixed, and a sufficient quantity of what marmalade you please, to give it a proper taste of the fruit de- sired. Cheese, Marigold.—Pick the freshest and best coloured leaves you can, pound them in a mortar, and strain out the juice. Put this into milk at the same time with the rennet. The milk being set, and the curd produced, break it as gently and as equally as you possibly can, put it into the cheese vat; and press it with a gentle weight, there being such a number of holes in the bottom part of the vat. as will let the whey easily out, or else let there be a spout to carry off the whey, though holes will be the best. They must be finished the same as all other cheeses. Cheese, Cream,dla Montmorency.*— Boil a pint of cream with two ounces of sugar ; when it boils, take it oft'the fire, and let it cool ; when cool, put in half a tea spoonful of orange-flower water. VVhip the cream, and as tlie cream thickens take it oft'with a skimmer, and put it on a basket (with a fine cloth laid over it); continue to whip until there is no longer any cream remaining ; let it drain, and serve it on a plate. Cheese en Neige.—Putinto an earthen pan three half pints of very thick cream, about the size of a large pea of gum adraganth (in powder), and a little grated young lemon-peel; whip the cream well, and as the froth thickens, take it off with a skimmer, and put it in a small osier cheese-basket. If the basket is not closely made, put in tlie bottom of it a bit of muslin, or fine linen. When the cream is all whipped and skimmed, let the cheese drain; turn it over into a deep dish for table; sugar it, and serve. Cheese Paste.—Make a paste, witli a cream cheese and flour, a little butter, three or four eggs, (both yolks and whites) and some good cream ; you mustCHE ( 133 ) c f r E Judge of tlie ciuantity of flour, according to ihe quantity of clieeae, and die con- sistence you would have the paste. Cheese Plombiure,*—Take a quarter of a pound of sweet, and four bitter al- monds, beat them to a fine paste, which put into a pint of boiling cream, having previously infused in it two pinches of crisped orange-flowers ; pour this cream on nine yolks of eggs, and three quar- ters of a pound of powder sugar; place it over a gentle fire, stirring it con- stantly until it begins to thicken, and taking great care not to let it boil ; pass it through a bolting, and when cold put it in a sabotiere, and ice it; when about half set, add a small Chantilly cheese, then finisli icing it, and when wantea for table, lay about a dozen orange or ivy leaves on a dish, lay tlie cheese on tliem like, a rock, drop apricot mar- malade over it, here and there, and serve it. Cheese Potted.—Beat three pounds of the best Cheshire cheese in a mortar, ■with half a pound of beat butter, a large glass of sack, near half an ounce of mace beaten and sifted; mix it well, pot it; pour Over it clarified butter. Cheese, Potted.—Add to a pound of grated Parmesan or Cheshire cheese three ounces of cold fresh butter, a little sifted mace, and a tea spoonful of mus- tard. Mix all well in a marble mortar, put it into small pots, cover it with clari- fied butter, and set the pots in a cold dry place. Cheese Pounded.—Take a pound of good mellow Cheddar, Cheshire, or North Wiltshire cheese, cut it into thin bits; if the cheese is dry, add to it three ounces of fresh butter ; if it is toleraldy moist, two ounces of butter will be suffi- cient; pound and rub them well together in a morlar till it is quite smooth. Spread on bread, it makes an excellent luncheon or supper. You may, if you please, pound with it curry powder, ground spice, black pepper, cayenne, and a little made mustard ; and moisten with a glass of sherry. If pressed down hard in a jar, and covered with clarified butter, it vriil keep for several days in cool weather. Cheese to Preserve Sound.—Wash it in warm whey, wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you wish it_ to ripen, put it into a damp cellar, which will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity shoald be spread inside with butter, and the outside should be iviped to preserve it. To keep tliat which is in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wrapped round the , cheese when carried from table. ■ Cheese Puffs.—Beat in a mortar, half | a pint of cheese curd (stiained Irom the 1 wiiey) very fine, v.dth a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, leaving out two [ whites, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it rather sweet. Lay a little of |j this paste in very small round cakes, on p a tin plate. _ If the oven is hot, a quarter i| ofanhourwiil besufficientto bake them • ! serve them with pudding sauce. Cheese Jloasled, (to come up after' '• Dinner).— Grate three ounces of fat i, Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks i of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, | and three ounces of butter ; beat the i whole well in a mortar, with a dessert i spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and I pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into i proper pieces; lay the paste, as abov’e, j thick upon them, put them into a Dutch |J oven covered with a dish, till hot through, |i remove the dish, and let the cheese I brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. li Cheese, Sage. — Bruise the tops of || young red sage in a mortar, with some |j leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; .j mix it with the rennet in the milk, more u or less, according as you like for colour i and taste. When the curd is come, ; break it gently, and put it in with the • skimmer, till it is pressed two inches f above one vat. Press it eight or ten j hours. Salt it, and turn every day. Cheese, Sage, wit A Figures.—Provide i* two cheese-vats of the same size, and set || the milk to turn in two vessels; one part || with rennet alone, and the other part i| with rennet and sage juice. These must ij be made as you would make two distinct il cheeses, ami put into the^ presses at the ii same time. When both these cheeses have || stood in the presses for half an hour. It take them out, and cut some square l| pieces, or long slips out of the plain If ciieese, and lay tiiem by on a plate ; ihen if cut the same number of pieces out of the !| sage cheese, of the same figure and size, i and immediately put the. pieces of the 1 sage cheese into the places that you rut , in the plain cheese, and the pieces llat i you took out of the plain cheese into the , places you cut in the sage cheese. The pieces should be cut out by a tin-plate, made into figures of several shapes, by which the pieces can he cut out so exactly, that tliey will fit without any trouble. When you have done this, put the cheeses in the press again, and finish like other cheese.®. The greatest care must be taken that the curd is very equally broken, and that both cheesesC HE ( 139 ) CHE are pressed as equally as possible before the figures are eui out, or else, when they cGine to be pressed for the last time, the figures will press unequally, and lose their shapes. Tlie_ cheeses should not be made above t'vo inches thick; if they are thicker it will be more difficult to make the figures regular. After they are made, they must be fi-equently shifted and turned on the shelf, and often rubbed with a coaree cloth. They will be fit to cut in about einhtnionths. Cheese SouffliTs.\ie three ounces of flour and two of butter, put them in a stewpan with one egg, mix them toge- ther with nearly a pint of milk, and set it on the fire till it begins to boil; if too tliickadda little more milk; then break in the yolks of five eggs, and a gill of thick cream; when these are well mixed, stir in gently about two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a very little pepper and salt; beat the whites of the eggs, with the addition of three, and finish as for souffles. When this light batter is put in paper cases, it is calledau froma^e. Cheese Soup.*—Take a soup dish that will bear the fire, and spread over the bot- tom of it Gruyere cheese cut small, with pieces of fresh butter strewed about it; cover this with thin slices of bread, and lay cheese, butter, and bread alternately, until you have enough, taking care to finish with the cheese and butter; moisten these layers with stock, and let them simmer until it is burnt to the bottom, and the liquor is evaporated. When about to send it to table, add more stock, with a little pepper, and let the potage be rather thick than otherwise. Cheese Soup en maigre, anden gi-as.* —If you wish to make it en maigre, pre- pare some Soup Maigre, taking care that there is a larger proportion of cabbage in your soup tl)an of any other vegetable; when it is made and strained through a sieve, season it with a little salt; take the dish in which you mean to serve it. and place it before the fire, then take half, orthree quarters of a pound faccor- ding to the quantity of soup you intend making) of Gruyere cheese, grate one half of it, and cut the other half into small slices, put a little of the grated cheese with some small pieces of butter into the bottom of your dish, cover it with some small slices of bread, then put a layer of the sliced cheese, then a layer of sliced bread covered with grated cheese, then bread and small pieces of butter, and so continue till your dish is filled ; moisten the whole with some of your soup, then let it soak over a chafing dish until all the soup is absorbed; then dilute it with the rest of your soup, and season with pepper. This cheese, seup should be served rather thick. To make Cheese Soup en gras, instead of making use of soup-maigre, it should be made with very rich cabbage soup, not skim- med, and no butter must be used. Cheese Soup, Gras on Maigre.—Take about half a pound of bread crumbs, sift them in a cullender with about a quarter of a pound of Gruyere cheese, or Parme- san ; simmer this together in a stewpan with some good broth (either Gras or il/(/!g-re), until the bread and cheese are well stewed ; make a liaison in another pan, with the yolks of three or four eggs, and the same number of spoonsful of broth ; when ready to serve, mix this last with the first, without boiling. This soup must not be very clear nor thick ; it must be made with broth vyithout salt, as the cheese may salt it sufticientiy. Cheese Stewed.—Cut small into a stewpan,Cheshire and Gloucester cheese, a quarter of a pound of each ; then add a gill of Lisbon wine, a table spoonful of water, and (if approved) a teaspoonful of mustard. Mix them over a fire till the cheese is dissolved; then have ready a cheese-plate, with a lighted lamp be- neath, put the mixture in, and serve it up directly. Send with it some fresh toasted bread in a toast-rack. Cheese Stilton.— Take the night’s cream, and put it into the morning’s new milk, with the rennet; when the curd is produced it must not be broken as is done with other cheeses, but take it out with a soil dish altogether, and place it in the sieve to drain gradually, and as it drains, keep gradually pressing it tilt it becomes firm and dry ; then place it in a wooden hoop, and afteiwards keep it dry on boards, turning it frequently, with cloth binders round it, which are to be tight- ened as occasion requires. In some dairies the cheese, after being taken out of the hoop, is bound tight round with a cloth, this cloth should be changed daily, until the cheese becomes firm enough to support itself; after the cloth is taken off; it must be rubbed every day all over, for two or three months, with a brush, and if the weather is damp or moist, twice ^ d^y ) ttnd even before the cloth is taken off, the top and bottom must be well rubbed every day. Cheese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, made mustard, and salt, into a mass; spread it on fresh-made thin toast, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese ujion them. Cheese Toasferf, or an English Rabbit. —Cut a slice of bread, toast it, and soak it in red wine, put it before the fire ; cutCHE ( 140 CUE some clipese in very thin slices, and rub some buiter ovj;r the bottom ol a plate, lay the cheese upon it, and pour in two or three spoonsful of white wine, and a little mustard; cover it with another plate, and set it on a chafing-dish of coals two or three minutes, then stir it till it is well mixed ; when it is mixed enough, lay it upon the bread, and brown it with a sa- lamander. Toasted, or a Scotch Rabbit.— Toast a slice of bread on both sides, of a tine light brown colour, butter it, toast a slice of cheese on both sides, and serve it on the bread. Cheese Toasted, ora Welch Rabbit. —Take a slice of bread and toast it on both sides; toast a slice of cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, and with a hot salamander brown it, and rub some mus- tard over it. Cheesecakes.*—Put a spoonful of rennet into a quart of milk; when turned, drain the curd through a coarse sieve, gently break the curd, and rub in a quar- ter ol a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, nutmeg, and two Naples biscuits grated, the yolks of four eggs, and the white Of one, half an ounce of almonds, lialf bitter and half sweet, well beaten in a mortar, with two spoonsful of rose water, four ounces of curr.ints ; put in the curd, and mix all together. Cheesecakes.*—One quart of milk, and three dessert spoonsful of rice-flour, six eggs, leave out three of the whites, and currants to your taste. Cheesecakes.—Put some curd from the dairy into the mortar, with a hit of fresh butter, a little salt, the yolks of three eggs, and the white of one; rasp the peel of a lemon over some sugar, and put this also into the mortar; add four macaroons, and a bit of sugar; pound the whole together, and when very fine, take it out of the mortar; butter any quantity of tartlet moulds, according to your company, spread some pufl-paste over the dresser, cut with a round cutter, as many pieces as you have moulds, and put a spoonful of the preparation to each, bake next in a pretty liot oven, and serve up very hot with powdered sugar. Sometimes you may glaze them with the Halaraander. Cheesecakes.*—Take one gallon of milk and turn it, but do not let the curd be too hard ; put it in a sieve to drain, mix in a quarter of a pound of fresh but- ter, half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, six eggs, leave out three of the whites, and one nutmeg; make a putr paste and put in the mixture. You may add currants if you please. Cheesecakes.—Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounceof cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight, and whites of six eggs, a pint of scalded cream, and a glass of brandy; put a light thin puff paste in the patty- pans, and three parts fill them. Cheesecakes.—Add three quarts of new milk to a gill of rennet, let it stand in a warm_ place, and when thorougidy set, drain it well, and mix into it with the hand half a pound of fresh butter, sweeten according to your taste with pounded sugar, add a few currants wash- ed and picked, a little citron, candied orange and lemon-peels cut into small •slices, and one ounce of sweet almonds pounded fine. Beat up with the mixture three eggs, line the pans with puff paste, fill them with the preparation, and bake them in a brisk oven. Cheesecakes.—A pint of cream, half a pound of butter, six eggs, two spoons- ful of grated bread, as much cinnamon and mace pounded as will lay upon a shilling, three spoonsful of sugar, five of currants, nearly two of brandy; beat the eggs well, then mix all together in a deep pewter dish, set it on a stove; stir it one way, till it becomes a soft curd ; when cold, put it into tins with pufl- paste. Cheesecakes. — Boil two quarts of cream, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and put them to the cream before you set it on the fire, let it boil till it comes to a curd; blanch some almonds, and pound them with orange-flower water, and put them into the cream, adding some Naples biscuits and green citron, shred small; sweeten with sugar that has musk plums ground in it. and bake them in a moderate oven. Cheesecakes, Commoit. — Beat eight eggs well, while a quart of milk is on ilte fire, and when' it boils, put in the eggs, and stir them till they come to a curd ; then pour it out, and when it is cold, put in a little salt, two spoonsful of rose- water. and three quarters of a pound of currants well washed ; put it into pufl- paste, and bake it. If you use tin ;>atties to bake in, butter them, or you will not be able to take them out; but if you bake them in class or china, only an upper crust will be necessary, ns you will not want to take them out when you send them to table. Cheesecakes, Cottrf.—Boil a bit of butter in a little water and a little salt: thicken it with as much flour as it will take, stirring it on the fire constantly, until it becomes quite a p.aste ; then mixCUE ( 141 ) c ri E 1> f 3 / i * I I ( tlie eggs with it, one by one, to make it almost as liquid as a thick batter; and mix some good cream cheese with it; bake it in good puff-paste, coloured with yolks of eggs. Serve it up either hot or cold. Cheesecakes, Curd.—Beat half a pint of good curds with four eggs, three spoonsful of riel) cream, half a nutmeg grated, and a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or orange-water; put to them a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pound of cur- rants well washed and dried before the fire. Mix all well together, put a good crust into patty-pans, and bake them gently. Cheesecakes, Curd.—Beat half a pint of good curd with four eggs, four spoons- ful of cream, some nutmeg, a little brandy, lialf a pound of currants ; sugar to the taste. Cheesecakes de St. Denis. — Mix a spoonful of flour with a fresh cream cheese well-drained, commonly called curds, a little salt, a proper quantity of eggs, and finish the same as for Court Cheese- cakes, Cheesecakes, Frae.—Warm a pint of cream, add toit five quarts of milk, warm from the cow, with some rennet; give it a stir about, and when the curd is come, put it into a linen cloth or bag; drain it well away from the whey, but do not squeeze it too much, and put it in to a mor- tar, and break the curd as fine as butter. Add to the curd half a pound of sweet al- monds, blanched, and beaten extremely fine, and half a pound of macaroons or Naples biscuits, beaten very fine; then put the yolks of nine eggs beaten, a nut- meg grated, two perfumed plums dis- solved in rose or orange-flower water, and half a pound of fine sugar; mix all well together; melt a pound and a quar- ter of butter, and stir it well in. Wet a pound of fine flour with cold water, roll it out, put into it, by degrees, a pound of fresh butter, and shake a little flour on each coat as it is rolled. The perfumed plums may be omitted or not, according to your taste. Cheesecakes, French.—Take some of thepetits choux paste, made with water ; mix with it mxnc frontage a la cream that has been curdled cold, and then proceed in the usual way. Cheesecakes, Mrs. Harrison’s.—For the paste, use a quart of fine flour, or more, a pound of butter rubbed into the flour, with a quarter of a pound of sugar beat fine, two spoonsful of orange-flower water; make it into a paste, and lay it in patty-pans for the curd ; take the yolks of twelve eggs, beat in a pint of very thick cream; when the cream boils wp, put in the eggs; then take it oil’, and put it in a cloth over a cullender ; whey some new milk with rennet, lor the other curd ; when you temper them together, take a pound of currants, three qraarters of a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs, four spoonsful of rose-water, and bake them quick. Cheesecakes, {Rich Paste for).—Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it thi-ee ounces of refined sugar, then wash half a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth ; put tlie flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some flour and sugar, to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill: a little more than fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar, heatup witli the white of an egg, as thick as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince- pies, or any .sweet things, should be washed. CHEIlRIJiS, auBeurre a VAllemande. —Pull the stalks from two pounds of black-heart cherries ; fry a large quan- tity of bread cut into dice, in a quarter of a pound of butter ; when the bread is well coloured, take it out rvith a skim- mer, and keep it hot; put the cherries into the remaining butter, with a glass of red wine and some sugar, and stew the cherries well through. Take them out also with a skimmer, and place them in a dish, put the fried bread into the cherry juice, turn them over in it, and put it over the cherries. Serve very hot. Cherries, Bottled.* — Gather your fruit before it becomes too ripe, and put it into bottles, fill them up as close as you can, and seal the corks. Place the bottles in the bain-marie, and as soon as the water begins to boil, lessen the fire, and a quarter of an hour after, take the water out of the bain-marie. Cherries m iJraMii?/.*—Choose the finest and ripest cherries, leave on half the stalks, and put them into very coid water. In about half an hour take them out, and drain them on a sieve ; weigh them, and to every pound of fruit, allow a quarter of a pound of sugar; wlien you have clarified and boiled it to grandperle, put in the fruit, boil them up two or three timefl, stirring them gently witli a skimmer; then take them from tlie fire carefully, and put the clierriea into bottles or glass jars; when filled, add to each twelve cloves and half an ounce ofCUE CUE ( 142 ) cinnamon tied in a linen bag. Put to the sugar, wlien nearly cold, brandy (in the proportion of a pint and a half to a pound of fruit); mix them together well, and pour them on the cherries. In two months time taste them, and if suf- ficiently flavoured, take out the cloves and cinnamon. Cover the Jars or bottles close. Chehries in Brandy.—Bruise a few cherries, mulberries, and raspberries, so that you may obtain from them half a pint of clear juice, which mix with a pint of brandy and rather more than a pound of sugar, and dissolve it; put some fine cherries into bottles, cut the tails about half away, and pour on them the juice, brandy, &c., which must cover the fruit. The cherries preserved in this way may be glazed with caramel, sugar, or white glaze, if you wish to serve them in a dessert. Cherry Brandy {Black).—Pick and bruise eight pounds of black maroons, and the same quantity of small black cherries ; let them stand for two months in a cask with six gallons of brandy, two pounds of crushed sugar, and a quart of sack well stirred together. At the end of that time it may be drawn oil’ and bottled. Another way.*—Choose fine sound mo- rella cherries, and having taken oft' the stalks, place them in layers in glass Jars ; strew powder-sugar between each layer, and cover them with brandy. As soon as the cherries have imbibed the brandy, pour in more, so as to keep them con- stantly covered. Cherry Cakes.—Cut a pound of tart paste in half, and roll it out thin ; chop preserved cherries into small piece.'", and drop them on the paste ; egg them round carefully, and turn the paste over tliem, and press them together gently. Then with a gigging-iron, cut it into halfcircles; prick and wash them over with egg. Bake them on a well-buttered tin, in a quick oven. Cherries {to candy).—The fruit must be gathered before it is ripe; prick and stone tliem ; boil clarified sugar, and pour it over them. Cherries enChemises.*—Choose some large ripe cherries, cut the stalks half off, beat up the white of an egg to a snow, and dip each cherry in it, and then roll it in fine sifted sugar ; then lay them, without touching each other, on a sheet of paper, and place them in a stove on a sieve till wanted. Currants in bunches, strawberries, and grapes may be done in the same manner. „ , , ,, , Cherries, Coated.—Take half a dozen cherries that have been preserved in fl- uid,oneof them must have the stalk on; i rain them, cut them in half, and when ; the stone is taken out, place them round j the one with the tail (which must not be 1 cut) so as to form one large cherry ; cover 1 it with fine powder-sugar, and dry it in a n stove or oven. I; Cherries (Compote of).*—Cut oIT the i| stalks of cherries about half-way. and '! throw tliem into cold water, and when i the water is well drained from them, put tliem into clarified sugar boiled to grand i perle ; let them boil up over a quick lire five or six times; then take the preserv- ing-pan from the fire, shake the pan, and skim. When cool, put them into potiers. Another way.*—Cut oft' the ends of the stalks, and put cherries into a saucepan, with half a glass of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar; set them upon the fire, and let them boil up two or three times; place them on a dessert plate with the stalks upward; pour the syrup over, and serve them cold. You may add raspberries or lemon-peel, if agree- able. Cherries {Conserve o/).* —Stone a pound of cherries, take the seeds from two 1 ounces of red currants, and place them i . in a silver vessel over a moderate fire, | until the fruit is reduced to a quarter. Boil a pound and a half of sugar to the degree grand casse, throw the fruit into it, and stir them well together till it begins topuft'up; you may then put the conserve in paper cases. Ch erry Cordial.—Place layers ofblack cherries and powder-sugar alternately in a stone Jar that is broader at bottom than at lop, until quite full, then pour on them spirits of wine, in the proportion of half a pint to two gallons; stop it as close as pos.sible, and bury it for six months, when it may be strained and bottled. Keep it tightly corked. Cherry Custard.*—Stone and tail two pounds of ripe cherries, and put them into a preserving-pan with half a pound of powder-sugar, and when nearly done, drain the cherries well, strain the syrup, and boil it until it begins to stick to the fingers; then pour to it a fourth part of the cherries with the Juice which oi-aincd from them, and put them on the fire till 1 the nappe forms. The custard being 1 prepared as usual (see Apple Custard), pour in the drained cherries; put it in a brisk oven for three quarters of an hour; then dorez and glaze it, and when ready for table, mask it with the rcmaini.ng cherries, and pour the syrup over the whole. Cherries {Dried). — Arrange some; CUE (14 iu sound ripe cherries, witli their stalks Bon,upon little hurdles, made for the pur- pose. Take ciirc not to place one upon another, and put them in a cool oven, jjl where tliey must remain till the oven is li cold ; turn the cherries, and put them ajjain into a cool oven O'ust after the r bread is drawn), and leave them to dry. I' AVhen cold, tie them up in little bunches, )i and keep them in a dry place. 1 Second tvay. — Put a pound of pow- ■! dered-stigar, a vfery little water, and five , pounds of morel la cherries (with the , stones taken out) into a saucepan, and t( make them scalding hot, when the cher- ries must be taken out and dried m a doth ; then return them to the pan, and heat them as before | dry again, and re- peat the process twice more; take them out for the last time, and dry them in a cool oven, laid singly. When dry, dip them into cold water, and dry them in a cloth. They must be kept free from damp. CheRHIes, the Frencn «)«!/.—Hang morella cherries by the stalks, singly, in the sun to dry, in a place free from dust: when quite dry, cut them fiom the stalks, and place them, one by one, in glasses, cover them with powder-sugar, and fill them up with white wine. Set them in a stove to swell, and then they are fit for use. Cherry Fritters.*—Cut some large sheets of wafers into pieces large enough to hold a preserved cherry (liquid), drain the latter on a sieve, and then wrap them, one by one, in the wafer, one piece at the top and the other at the bottom ; having slightly wetted the wafers, press the edges together, lay them on a sieve, without touching each other, and leave them to dry. Make a light batter, in which put a little brandy, Madeira, and melted butter ; dip the cherries in this, drain, and fry them to a nice colour in a moderately hot pan ; then drain them again; sprinkle fine sugar over, and serve them. Cherry Fritters., a la Dauphine.*— Pick three quarters of a pound of fine cherries, and boil them five or six times a with a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar ; take out the cherries, drain them, and boil the sugar to la nappe ; then put ( in the cherries again, and leave them to S .cool. In the mean while roll out a pound 6 of brioche paste ; make your fritters as ii directed (see Fritters a la Dauphine), I and put five or six cherries in each. Fry j them of a nice colour : glaze, and serve i them quickly. Cherry Gateau, d la Parisienne.*— E Take the stones and stalks from apound f and a half of sweet cherries, and having i:i ) CUE mixed them with a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of powder-sugar, finish the Gateau as directed (see 6'«fea« Parisienne of Apples). To make this Gateau of currants, the same quantity of fruit is necess.ary; the seeds of the latter must be removed. Cherry Ice.*—Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of ripe cherries, bruise, and set them on the fire with ii little water, and half a pound of sugar. When they have boiled, pass tliem through a hair sieve into an earthen pan. Pound a handful of the kernels, put them in a basin with the juice of two lemons. Add to the cherries a pound of sugar mi petit lisse, and strain on them the lemon- juice and kernels ; mix the whole to- gether, and put it a saboticre, with pounded ice. Work the cherries up with it well, until it has set, then place it in glasses. Cherry Ice Cream.— Take half a pound of preserved cherries, pound them, stones and all; put them into a basin, with one gill of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Cherry ,/urn. — Having stoned and boiled three pounds of fine cherries, bruise them, and let the juice run from them; then boil together half a pound of red currant juice, and half a pound of loaf sugar, put the cherries into these whilst they are boiling, and strew on them three quarters ot a pound of sifted sugar. Boil all together very fast for half an hour, and then put it into pots. When cold put on brandy papers. Cherry Take the stones and stalks from two pounds of fine clear ripe cherries ; mix them witii a quarter of a pound of red currants, from which the seeds have been extracted; express the juice from these fruits, filter and mix it with three quarters of a pound ofclaii fied sugar, and one ounce of isinglass. Finish the same as Barberry jelly. Cherry Jelly.— Having taken the stalks and stones from two pounds of dark-red fleshy cherries, put them in a basin; pound the kernels; and squeeze the juice of four lemons through a tamr my. Mash the cherries with a wooden spoon, putting in first half a pot of cur- rant jelly, then the kernels, and lastly, the lemon juice; mix these together well; then having hoiled and skimmed a pint of thick clarified sugar and isin- glass;, put the cherries into a jelly bag, pour the sugar, &c. over them; run it through till quite clear. If not stiflici- ently sweet, add more sugar, if the con- trary, add more lemon juice. Wet theC II E CUE ( 144 mould, set it in ice, and lillit with the jel- ly; do not turn it out till the last minute. Cheuiues in Jelly.—%X\\, half a pound of green gooseberries in tlie side, tiiat part of their juice may run out; put tiiem into pots witli a little water in each; cover the pots very close, and put them in a saucepan of water over tlie lire, till the gooseberries are quite clear; stone a pound of cherries, and beat a pound of doubje-refined sugar, strew some of it in a basin, and put on it a layer of cherries, c’over ttiem with sugar; add live or six spoonsful of the gooseberry liquor, put them on the fire, and let them boil gently till the sugar is melted, then they may boil fast; skim it well. As soon as it jellies in the spoon it is done enough. Cherries (fo keep).—Cut the stalks carefully from sound and perfectly dry cherries, and put them into clean and dry bottles; when full, cork them light, and resin or seal them. Bury them in the ground with the corks downwards. Cherry Marmalade.* — Choose the ripest, largest, best red coloured cher- ries, you can meet with, and take of them double the weight of the sugar you intend to use; stone and tail; and then put them on a gentle fire, and keep stirring them till reduced to half. Clarify and boil your sugar to petit casse, then add the fruit to it, and stir it until you can see the bottom of the pan; the marma- lade is then sufficiently done, and may be put into pots. Cherry Marmalade. * — Boil two pounds of sugar, with two glasses of water, skim it well, until, on shaking the skimmer, after dipping it in the sugar, the latter drops from it like icicles; then you may put in four pounds of cherries, picked and stoned; boil them, and when the marmalade flowsreadily, take it from the fire, and put it into pots. Cherry Marchpane.* — Take three pounds of sweet almonds, two and a half of sugar, and a pound of cherries; pound the almonds to a paste, and mi.x it with the sugar, boiled to petit boule; then having stoned, 17611 bruised, and squeez- ed out the juice of the cherries, add it to the rest, stir it well, place it on hot ashes, stirring constantly until the paste is pro- perly done; then finish it in the usual way, (See Marchpa.xe.) Strawberries, raspberries, currants, or any other fruit may be used in the same way. Cherries (Massepain of).—Take the atones from half a pound of ripe cherries, bruise the fruit, and then add to it a pound of sugar, and the same of pounded sweet almonds ; put them on the lire, and work them till quite dry. When this is quite cold, pound it with the whites of three or four eggs, and a little raw sugar. Tut it on paper of whatever form you please, and bake in a moderate oven. Cherry Paste.—Take two pounds of Morelja cherries, stone tUenif press out the juice through a sieve, (they must be boiled first), and put it into a skillet over the fire to dry it a little, mix a pound of sugar boiled to grande plume with this, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon ; when the paste is of a good consistence, put it into moulds, and dry it in a gentle oven. Cherries( Preserved dry in lunches). * —Ice up some fine equal sized cherries in bunches, seven or eight in each, fasten them by the ends of the stalks, throw them into sugar boiled to souffle. Let the cherries boil up in it fourteen or fifteen times, then skim and pour it into an earthen pan, set it in a stove till the next day, when drain and lay out the cherries to dry. To each pound of fruit allow an equal weight of sugar. Cherries, {Preserved, Liquid).* — Stone and take the stalks from six pounds of cherries, and put them into an equal quantity of clarified sugar boiled to grande plume; boil them up several limes in a covered saucepan ; skim, take them from the fire, and let them drain ; the next day, boil the sugar to grand perlc, and add to it a little currant juice, put in your fruit, and boil it again'eight or ten times, covered ns before : take it off, skfim, and put it into pots. When the fruit is cold, cover it with currants frarnbnisees. Cherries {Preserved with the Leaves and Stalks green).—Dip the stalks and leaves in boiling hot vinegar, and then place them upright in a sieve to dry. Having boiled some double-refined .'Uigar to a syrup, put in cherries with the stalks and leaves prepared as above, and scald them ; take them out, and lay them again on a sieve, until the sugar be boiled to candy heigb.t; then arrange them pro- perly, and dry them like any other sweet- meats. Cherry Pudding.—Make a paste with butter, or suet chopped small, rubbed into flour, and moistened with irater; line a basin (well buttered) with this, put in picked cherries, cover the top with a crust, tie it in a cloth, and boil it. Other fruit may be added. Some boil fruit puddings in a cloth without a haiiin. yfnof/ier tc«y.*—Make a plain batter pudding, and stir in picked cherries, taking care not to break them. The batter must be made thicker and with more eggs, than for plain boiling. Tie it in a clolli, and boil as any other pud- ding.C [I E ( 14.J ) C H E Cheiuiy Pudding, Anglo Francats. — Pick two pounds of l’me ripe cherries,and mix them with a quarter of a pound ol picked I'od currants, (having extracted the seeds), and six ounces of powder sugar, hlake your pudding as_ directed in tire recipe for apple-pudding, witli Muscadel raisins. You may make use of raspberries instead of currants; or mix red or white currants and raspber- ric9» Cherby Crush ten pounds of cherries, and put them into a jar with a quart of brandy; cover the jar close, and infuse the cherries for five or six days; at the end of that time put the fruit into a cloth, and press the juice out through. Boil five pounds of fine currants, 1 with three pounds of sugar, and press I out the juice as you did that of the cher- ries; mix the two juices, measure them, 1 and for every pint allow a pint of brandy. ! Add a pound of the kernels of the cher- ; rv-stones, half a pound of coriander, a I little mace, some cloves and cinnamon, , all well pounded, put them into ajar, and |l pour the liquor overthera ; cover it close k and let it infuse for six weeks, after ^ which, pass the whole through a jelly- bag, and bottle it; cork it carefully. Second way.*—Take the stones and i stalks from the quantity of cherries you 1 intend to use, and put a few raspberries 1 with them; bruise and put them into a I jar, and let them stand for four or five i days, stirring the pulp two or three times j each day ; then press out all the juice, ( measure it, and to every three pints of it put a quart of brandy; and to these i five pints, add three handsful of the ker- ) nets pounded, and a pound and quarter j of sugar. Infuse in the same jar a hand- 1 ful of coriander, and a little cinnamon. I Let it stand lor seven or eight days, stir-. ring it every day, then filter and put it I into bottles ; cork them well, i Cherbies(S//to/) of).*—The best cher- I ries for this purpose are the black sour I ones; take out the stones and express I the juice into an earthen pan, where it i must stand in a cool place for twenty-four ; hours to clear; at the end of that time ! pour the juice gently into a pan, and add I to it, lor each pound of juice, two pounds of crushed sugar, and two draciims of 1 cinnamon, previously infused in a glass of water, wrap the cinnamon in a piece of : linen, and put it with the water into your pan; boil altogether for half an hour, skimming it carefully. When sufficient- ly done take out .he cinnamon ; strain the syrup till quite clear, and when cold bottle it. I CHERRiEs/or Tarts.—Prick some Mo- relia cherries with a needle, each three or four times, and let them slant! m a dish with powder-sugar sifted over them. The next day boil some sugar to a syrup, and whilst hot, put the fruit into it, and wlien they have remained in it twenty- four hours, take them out and boil the syrup again until very thick, then put in a little brandy, and add the cherries. When cold, pu’t them into glasses. Keep them in a cool place. Cherry Tart.—Make a good crust, and lay it round the sides of a dish, strew in sugar, put in your fruit picked, and sugar at the top, red currants may be added if agreeable, cover with crust and bake. Another.—Make a compote of cherries, either with or without stoning, and half the quantity of sugar used for preserving. When done, lay it in a puff paste ; cover it with the same, or not, according to your fancy, and bake just time enough to colour your paste. 'J'his must be eaten cold. Cherry Tartlets.*—Take the stones and stalks from a pound and a half of sweet cherries, and give them a few boils in a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar, but no water. Prepare your tartlets in the usual way. (See Tart- lets, and having drained the fruit, put them in, and mask the tartlets with the syrup reduced. Cherries en Timbale. — Take,^ the stones very carefully from two pounds of good, red, fleshy cherries, add to them the kernels, and put them with some clarified sugar, into a sugar-pan, and boil them gently till pretty thick ; then put them into a basin, and mix them with the juice of two lemons, and a little clarified isinglass; set this on ice, and just before you serve it, put it into a timbale previously prepared. Cherry fVater.—Take one pound of Kentish cherries, pound them in a mortar so as to break the kernels of them; take the cherries and kernels, put them into a basin, and add four gills ot syrup; squeeze four lemons in, and add a suffi- cient quantity of water; make it to your taste; pass it through a sieve, and it will be fit for use. Cherry fV'iter.—Put to two quarts of claret four pounds of ripe black cherries bruised; add to them angelica, balm, and carduces, of each a handful, r.alf the same quantity of mint, double of rose- mary-flowers, and treble of clove gilly- flowers, two ounces of cinnamon, and one ounce_ of nutmeg, both cut small; put these ingredients into a deep vessel, stir them well, and cover the vessel quite close ; and when it has stood twenty four hours, distil it; then draw off' asCHE C H E ( 146 ) I much as runs clear. Sweeten with sugur- candy. CHERav JVater.*— Take the stalks and stones from two pounds of very ripe cherries, crush them in an eartlien pan, with lialf a pint of water : then put tliem into a fine sieve, and let tliein drain. With tlie liquid mix up eight ounces of sugar; beat it up well with a spoon, and put it into bottles, which must be placed in iced water. Chehrv (Vine.*—To make five pints of this wine, take fifteen pounds of clier- I'ies, and two of currants, bruise tliein together; mix with them two-thirds of the kernels, and put the whole (the cher- ries, currants, and kernels), into a bar- rel, with a quarter of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. The barrel mu.st he quite full; cover the barrel with vine- leaves, and sand above them, and let it stand till it has done working, which will be in about three weeks; then stop it with a bung, and in two months time it may be bottled. Another fVay.—Stone, and take the stalks from red cherries when they begin to ripen ; put them into a glazed pan, and squeeze them to a pulp, either with your hands or a wooden ladle. Let them stand twelve hours to ferment: then put tliem into a linen cloth, and press out the juice, which must remain until the scum rises, then skim it clean; pour it off' gently into a cask, and put to each gallon a pound of loaf-sugar. W'hen it has fer- mented seven or eight days, and is be- come clear, draw itoft'into smaller casks, or you may bottle it. Keep it cool, and in ten or twelve days it will be ripe. CHERVIL.*—Is piincipally used in soups and stuffing, and is generally pre- served with other herbs as follows : take of sorrel, chervil, beet, purslain, and cucumbers, if in season, quantities ac- cording to your liking; wash them well; mince and press them in your band, to squeeze out all the water. Put them into a kettle with water, some butter and salt, and boil tliem until the water is entirely consumed. Then take them out, and when ci'ld, put them into pots; cover them «itli warmed butter. When yotr want to use these herbs, put them into some stock that has very little salt in it. If they are lequired for a farce or gar- nish. boJ them a minute or Itvo in some iiuttei ; thicken with the yolks of eggs and milk ; when so prepared, they may lie served under hard eggs or broiled .fi.'h. For sauce, it must be ch pped small, boded in salt and water, and mi.xed with melted butter. Chervil Cnnw.*—Boil a handful of chervil in a glass of water for half an hour; then stiain and reduce it to two spoonsful ; add half a pint of cream, the same of milk, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, the rind of a lemon, a little coriander and orange-flower water ; boil these half an hour longer: beat up the yolks of six eggs with a small quantity of flour; pour the cream on them; mix them well; strain, and put it into the bain marie. Glaze it with sugar and the salamander. Chervil Sauce. — Put a few mush- rooms, parsley, cliibbol, shalots, two cloves, a bay-leaf, and a few tarragon leaves in some melted butter; let them soak for some time, then add a little broth, white wine, pepper and salt; re- duce it to a proper thickness, but do not skim it; when done, put in some cher- vil, scalded and chopped; heat it all up together. Chervil {Syrup of).* — Put into a warm glass, or glazed earthen vessel, a quart of hot ivater, and five ounces of chervil; place it on hot ashes, (the ves- sel must be very closely stopped). In twelve hours draw off' the infusion, and add to it two pounds of powder-sugar; boil the whole to perls ; take it from the ■ fire, and let it cool before you bottle it. Chervil fFater.— Steep chervil in boiling water until the latter is properly flavoured ; tlien set it by in a cold place for some hours before you want to use it. . Sweeten it to the taste. CHESNUTS.*—Should be placed on : the fire in a pan with holes to loast; first: slitting or cutting a notch in the skins, . to prevent their fljing off'. When done, . serve them in dcsserlon a nankin, as hot : as possible. Some'boil the clie.sHuts in- ■ ■stead of roasting them, as the ^kinsa-e • then cleaner, but the nuts not quite so [ mealy; the better way is to boil ihem in i plenty of water, and when nearly done, I take them out and roast them. Chesxut jB/schi'/s.*—Take six ounces of roasted and skinned chesnuts, a little grated lemon-peel, a pound and a half of powder-sugar, and ten whites of eggs. Pound the chesnuts to a paste, and then heat it up in an earthen pan with the other ingredients; when your pa.ste is of a proper ihitknes.s, take it up with a knife, and lay it on paper, and lorm into biscuits whatever size you pieasc. Bake them in a moderate oven, and when ® jj nice colour take them out. Do not re- N move them Irom the paper till they are |l cold. , , ; Ches.vut Jiread.*—Roast a hum.rco [' fine chesnuts. being carelul not to burn i them; peel them well, and j>ound them with biutcr and double cream ; pass them 1CUE ( 147 ) CUE thrmigl) a sieve; add two eggs, and tlien strain them again. Weigli your paste, and for every pound, allow lialf a pound of powder, a little vanilla in powder, and two ounces of (lour; nii.v these together, and form of the preparation as many chesnuts as it will make ; lay them on a sheet of wafer paper, hutter and dorez them several times, and then bake them in a hot oven. Chesnuts an Chrawe/.—Roast ches- nuts as for the table; take oft' the skins; dip each in the whites of eggs beaten, and then roll them in powder-sugar ; lay them separately on paper to dry, in a moderate oven; they may be cut into diS'erent forms if you think proper, and glazed either while or brown. Another fVay.*—Cut some osier rods or reeds into pieces about two or three inches long, and on the point of each put a roasted and skinned chesuut. Take a piece of very fresh butter, (about the size of a nut), and rub it with the palm of the hand, on an iron plate or marble slab, taking care to rub every part well. Then having boiled some clarified sugar to caramel height; take a piece of the osier, with a chesnut on the end, in each hand, and dip them in the sugar, twist- ing them round repeatedly, that the sugar may adhere equally about the chesnut till it begins to cool, then lay them on the buttered slab, and dip in twrt more, proceeding as above ; when all are done and cold, take out the o.sier twigs, and wrap each chesnut in paper, with a device if you think proper. These chesnuts make a delicious sweetmeat, but they should be eaten the day on which they are made. Chesnuts, Compote of,* — Take the outer skin from about a hundred ches- nuts, and then put them into a saucepan with water, a lemon cut in pieces, and three handsful of bran; put them on the fire and blanch them : as soon as a pin will go into them easily, they are sufti- ciently done; rub oft the second skin, and throw them into cold water, with the juice of a lemon. Clarify and boil a pound and a half of sugar to petit lisse, and having drained your chesnuts. put them into the sugar with the juice of a lemon, the quarter of a glass of orange- flower water ; put these on the fire for a short time, but not to let them boil; then take them oft' and set them by. The next day drain the chesnuts, and boil up the syrup four times; then add more sugar, and having boiled it to sovfU, put in the chesnuts; blanch them instantly afterwards, and put them into >1 compotiers. Che8nut,s( Compose o/).*—Roast your chesnuts as for the dessert, and when they are pi*eled and skinned, put them into a sauceiinn, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and half a glass of water ; let them simmer l'oraq\iarierof an ho.ir; squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and when ready to serve, strew powder-sugar over them. Chesnuts, Compote of, d I’Ilalienne.* —Roast and take the peel from fifty chesnuts, flatten each a little between your thumb and finger, and place them on silver plate, put over them very lightly, a quarter of a pound of pow'der sugar, and set the plate on a stove to boil ; when you have taken them from the fire, strew more sugar over, and glaze litem with the salamander. Ar- range them in a compotier, and make a 'syrup with a little clarified sugar, the juice of a Seville orange, and half that of a lemon. Chesnut Cream.*—Pound twenty-five roasted chesnuts in a mortar, with a little milk ; then put the paste so made into a stewpan, with the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, and four ounces of powder sugar ; when it has boiled a little while, strain it, put it into a dish, or glass for table, and let it cool. Chesnut Cream. — Roast, and then pound a quarter of a hundred of ches- nuts, with a small quantity of milk ; to this add the yolks of two eggs, a pint of milk, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, and ab.^ut an ounce of butter. Boil these together for some minutes, then strain it, and set it by fo co d. Chesnuts, Croquettes of.*—Roast fifty fine, chesnuts, pick them, and take away all those parts which may have become coloured; set aside a dozen, and divide each in half. Pound the remainder with two ounces of butter, and rub the paste through a sieve, into a stewpan, with a glass of cream, two ounces of butter, the same of sugar, and a grain of salt ; put it on a moderate fire, stirring it one way, in two minutes add to it the yolks of six eggs, and replace it on the fire for one minute, when the cream will hav'e some consistence ; pour it on a buttered baking plate, and spread it out, and cover it with paper. When cold, enclose each half chesnut in about double its size of the cream, roll it in tlie hollow of your hand to make it perfectly round, and then roll in crumb of bread grated extremely fine. All the croquettes being thus formed, beat up five eggs, add .a pinch of salt, dip the croquettes \r\ this, drain, and then roll them again in bread crumbs ; make them quite smooth in the hollow of your hand, and fry them inCUE C II E ( 148 ) kid, 01' wbatevei- else you think proper. Move tlie croyi«e<<e6-with the point ol a skewer, and when done take tliein out with a skimmer; drain them well, .sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them in a pyramidal form. . Chesnut Custard.* Take three pounds of well roasted chesnuts,remov- ing such parts as were coloured by the lire, and pound them with a pound of fresh butter; when a smooth parte, add three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, the yolks of twelve eggs, a pinch of salt, and a few spoonsful of whipped cream, the whites whipped firm, and finisli the custard as directed. Chesnuts d VEspagnole.* Take about fifty good chesnuts, and blanch them in hot water, in the same way as almonds; when they are thoroughly cleared of both skins, put them into a saucepan, with two ounces of butter, four large spoonsful of espagnole, two glasses of consomme, a bay leaf, and a litt'e nutmeg; boil the chesnuts in this for half an hour, then take them out, and having strained, keep them hot in the hain marie., whilst the sauce is re- duced ; then pour the latter into a dish, lay the chesnuts on it. and serve. Chesnuts, Glacis.* — Having taken the outer skin from some fine chesnuts, blanch them in some boiling water with two spoonsful of flour until they are suf- ficiently tender to allow a pin to pass through them easily; then take them, one by one, from the saucepan, clear away the inner skin and throw them into cold water; when all are done, drain them and simmer them a minute or two in some clarified sugar; then add a little lemon-juice and put them into a stove till the next day. Drain them again and boil the sugar about ten or twelve times, and set it by; when lukewarm, put in the chesnuts, and place the whole in the stove again. When ready to finish, drain the chesnuts a third time, sprinkle them with sugar and dry them on slates. Chesnuts d VItalienne.*—Pe^l some broiled chesnuts, lay' them on a napkin, two at a time, and press them together, so that of the two, you make one; put them successively into clarified sugar, boil them gently for a short time, and place them in a baking-pan; sprinkle them with sugar, and brown them, either with a salamander, or in the oven. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over them. Chesnuts {to keep).* — Pierce the skins of the chesnuts as if for roasting, and then put thena into bottles, and boil them up in a bain-marie. When you wish to use them, throw them, one by one, into cold water; then sprinkle salt over and broil them. Chesnut Paste.—.Make a marmalade by boiling chesnuts in water, and rub- bing them through a sieve, then pound them, and to three quarters of a pound of this, add a quarter of a pound of any other fruit marmalade; mix them well up with an equal weight of sugar boiled to grand plume ; put it into your moulds and bake it as cherry, or any other paste. Chesnut Paste, Cmnpote of.*—Pre- pare an hundred chesnuts in the same way as for Compote of Chesnuts, and put them into a skillet with a pound and a half of clarified sugar; reduce them over the fire to a paste with a litile orange- flower water; dry it like almond paste, pass it through a sieve into a coinpot'er ; imake a syrup like the Compote d I'Ila- tienne, which pour on them and serve. Chesnut Pudding.—Put a dozen and a half of chesnuts into a skillet or sauce- pan of water, boil them a quarter of an hour, then blanch and peel them, and beat them in a marble mortar, with a little orange-flower or rose-water and white wine, until they are a fine thin aste; then beat up twelve eggs, with alf the whites, and mix them well; grate half a nutmeg, a little salt, mix them with three pints of cream and half a pound of melted butter; sweeten to your palate, and mix all together, put it over the flic, and keep stirring it until it is thick. Lay a puff-paste all over the dish, pour in the mixture, and bake it. When you cannot procure cream, take three pints of milk, beat up the yolks cf four eggs, and stir into the milk, set it over the fire, stirring it all the time until it is scalding hot, then mix it in the room I of the cream. ! Chesnut and Plum-pudding. Anglo- i Frangais.* — Having roasted thirty-six I chesnuts, choose from among them ten, which are perfectly white, and cut them I in halves; take from the remainder a quarter of a pound, and lieat them with | an equal weight of fresh butter to apaste; i rub them through a liorse-h.air sieve, | and add to them three ounces of rice- ! flour, six yolks, and two whole eggs. | fourteen ounces of veal suet shred, a quarter of a pound of sugar, the same of ' bitter macaroons, ditto of stoned rai- i sins, the twenty half chesnuts. each cut into four pieces, lialf a glass of cream, a pincli of salt, grated nutmeg, and halfa glass of rum or arrack. Make your pud- ding like marrow pudding Anglo- Frangais. Chesnut Puree.—Slit the peel of some fine new chesnuts. and fry tliem in a little butter till the peel comes oil'; then149 ) CHI CUE 0 3 Jet them boil in some cmisominv and sugar; add half a dozen spoonsful of espagnole when nearly done, »nd then rub ihe whole through a tammy. This saHce being apt to get too thick, must be kept rather liquid. Chesnut {iiluzed) Pie. — Glaze the quantity of chesnuts you may require, with orange-flowers, and place them in layers in a crust made of almond paste; cut lemon-peel into fillets, and stick them into the interstices; cover the whole witli very clear apple-jelly. Ches.nuts (Ragoiit of). — When the chesnuts are properly prepared, put them into a saucepan with half a glass of white wine, two spoonsful of culiis, a little stock, and salt; boil it until re- duced to a thick sauce. Be careful not to break the chesnuts, but they must be thoroughly done. Chesxut Rolls.* — Roast and peel about three dozen chesnuts, and care- fully removing those parts which have been coloured by the fire, weigh six eunces of them and pound them with two ounces of butter; when reduced to a very fine paste, pass it through a sieve and make it into rolls, as directed (see Abnond Rolls). Chesnuts {Smtffle of).*—Peel your chesnuts, and tlien boil them in water with any aromatic ingredient you think proper; lay them in a cloth to drain; dry them thoroughly, pound and rub them through a quenelles sieve; put them into the mortar again with half their quantity of butter, and a little owder-sugar, and when they are well eaten together, add the yolks of six eggs, and beat them up likewise. If the paste is too liquid put it into a saucepan over the fire to dry a little. About half an hour before it should be sent to table, whip the six whites of eggs to a frotii, as for biscuits, and mix them lightly with your souffle, which put into a silver Btewpan, and place it in a cool oven. Chesnut Soup.* — Half roast about seventy or eighty chesnuts in hot ashes, and then take off the outer and second skins. Boil them in some good beef or rich fowl stock ; when well done pound those which have broken in the boiling, and press them through a sieve, moist- ening them with stock as a.puree. Keep the unbroken chesnuts to place round the soup-dish as a garnish. Another way.*—Put into a stewpan a piece of butter, three onions sliced, two carrots, a parsnip, a head of celery, three leeks (all cut small), half a clove of gar- lick,and two cloves; when they have taken colour, put in a little water, and let it boil for an hour, then strain and season it with salt. Take the outer and second skin from an hundred^ or more of ches- nuts, and stew them in a part of the above liquor; when sufficiently done, rub the broken ones through a sieve as above, and keep the whole ones to gar- nish ; moisten the former with the liquor they were stewed in ; then boil up the whole together, and serve. To make this soup C7i gras, meat must be added to the roots in the first instance. Chesnut Soup, a VAnglaise. — Lay some slices of ham or bacon at the bot- tom of a stewpan, and place on them a pound of veal, a pigeon cut in pieces, an onion, sweet herbs,-pepper, mace, and a carrot; let these stand over the fire until it begins to stick to the bottom, then add a crust of bread and two quarts of beef broth; hoil it gently, and when reduced to nearly half, strain it, and having roasted half a hundred chesnuts, stew them in beef stock (just sufficient to cover them) until quite tender; add them to the soup made above; season with salt, and serve with fried bread. Chesnuts, Stewed-—Cut a notch in the skins_ of about fifty chesnuts, and put them in a stewpan with a little but- ter ; shake them over the fire, and when the skin is quite come off, let them sim- mer in some consom7ne, turn them about occasionally, until nearly dry; then add a little espagnole; simmer them gently in that for a short time. Ifit should be too thick, you may add more consommi. Salt it to your taste, and put in a few mushrooms stewed; great care should be taken not to break the chesnuts. Serve with roasted turkey,stewed beef,&c. CHICKENS. — Having picked the chickens, singe them well to remove all the hairs, &c., which may remain on the skin; then bruise the bone close to the foot, and draw the strings from the thigh. Take out the crop by a slit cut in the back of the neck; then cut off the neck, leavingskin enough to turnover the back. Cut off" the vent, and takeout the inside, being careful not to break the gall; break the back-bone and the two bones leading to the pinions j wipe the chicken with a cloth, and put in a little pepper and salt. If the chicken is to be trussed for roast- ing, proceed as followsTurn the legs close down to the apron and run a skewer through ; run another skewer in the joint of one wing through the body to the other wing; and having washed the liver and gizzard, place them in the pinions. For boiling, tlie under-part of the thigh must, be cut, and the legs placed under the apron, only letting the ends be seen. Be sure to preserve the breast very full.C H I ( 1 To truss them, en ptmle, for the Frencli dishes, make a Isole above the joint of the leg, and put the claws into the body. A string fastened across the back, from the head to the point of the skewers, will enectually preserve the chicken in its proper form. Chickens, d l'j4nglaise.*—Truss and roast them till three parts dotie, and be- lore they are coloured, dish them up. Pour on them melted butter mixed with parsley, garlick, tarragon cut small, and a little flour. Serve very hot. Chickens, Artificial.—Make a force- meat with the white meat of chickens, or some veal or lamb, apiece of fat bacon, a shalot (all minced very small), parsley, also chopped, a little butter, and the yolk of an egg; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Work this up into the shape of a chicken, and stick into it the feet of the bird ; bind it well together with egg, cover it with bread-crumbs, place them on buttered tins, and bake them. Serve either with or without gravy. Chickens, a la Bellevue.—Bone two nice chickens, and fill them with a ra- gofit made as follows:—Boil some small onions in stock, till about three parts done; then stew with a little melted lard, two slices of peeled lemon, truflles, mushrooms, livers cut small, and sea- son with pepper and salt, for about half an hour; do not use them till cold. Wrap the chickens in thin slices of bacon rubbed with pepper and salt, and add shalots and parsley: over these double paper buttered. Broil them slowly; when done, wipe off (he fat and serve with sauce d la Bellevue. Chickens au Blanc-mange. — Boil a pint of cream with a bay-leaf and a little coriander for a short time ; then add to it a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds beaten; when well strained, beat up the yolks of four eggs in a little cream, and put them to the former; place it on the fire again, and keep stirring; mix in by degrees, the breast of a roasted fowl minced with beef marrow, and seasoned with nutmeg, salt, and pepper. With this blanc-mange fill two chickens boned, and sew them up ; scald, and then braise them with bacon, milk, herbs, &c. When they are done, prick them that the fat may drain out, wipe, and serve them with sauce d la Rcine. Chicken {Blanquette of).d la Turque. —Cut a cold roasted chicken into scol- lops ; place some rice, boiled in comommi and hichamelle., into a dish en buisson, lay the scollops, en 7niroion, to the top of it; keep it hot, and when ready to serve. 0 ) CHI cover it with sauce d blanquette, or d W- cltamelle. Chickens to Boil.—Put the chickens into a saucepan by themselves, and boil a small one for fifteen, a larger one twenty minutes. Another tray.—When they are drawn and trussed, lay the chickens in skim milkforabout two hours; then put them into cold water, cover them close, and set them over a slow fire, and skim them well. As soon as they have boiled slowly, take them from the fire, and let them remain in the water close cover- ed for half an hour; then drain and serve with white sauce. Chickens d la Bricoliere.—Take out all the bones, except those of the legs, which must be trussed over the breast, something in the form of a chainnan’s strap ; give them a few turns over the fire, in a little oil or butter, with some sliced lemon. Then put them and the butter and lemon into a pan with a few slices of ham and veal; cover them with bacon, parsley, a clove of garlick, thyme, bay-leaf, two cloves, pepper, and salt. When these have stewed together a quarter of an hour, put in a glass of wine and finish; skim and strain the sauce, thicken it with cullis, and serve it on the chickens. Chicken, Broiled.—Split it down the back, pepper, salt, and broil it. Serve it with white mushroom sauce, or melted butter with pickled mushrooms. Another xoay.—Split a couple of chick- ens, take out the inside and back-bones, beat them with a wooden spoon, dip them in clarified butter, and broil them, the inside next the fire (which should be of charcoal), and only turn them to co- lour them. When done, pour on them a sauce made as follows:—Boil some stewed mushrooms with beef stock and plain sauce, an equal quantity of each,' until of a proper consistence ; flavour it with lemon-juice and cayenne-pepper. Chicken Broth.—Take the remaining parts of a chicken from which panada lias been madej all but the rump ; skin, and put them into the water it w,-i8 first boiled in, with the addition of a little mace, onion, and a few pepper-corns, and simmer it. When of a good flavour, put to it a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds beaten with a spoonful of water; boil it in a little while, and when cold, take off the fat. Chicken Broth, Beeforo/.*—Prepare a chicken in the usual w.ay, and put it into a saucepan with two pints and a half of water, two ounces of pearl barley, the same of rice, and two ounces of theC 11 I ( 151 ) CHI best honey; boil all together, skimming well for three hours, until it be reduceu to two-thirds. Chickens e/i Caisse.*—Truss two pre- pared chickens with the legs in the body, leave on the wings, and flatten the chickens a little. Soak them in sweet oil, with parsley, scallions, shalots and garlic, all whole, and seasoned with salt and pepper; make a case of paper, put in the chickens and the above ingre- dients, cover them with slices of bacon and paper; cook them over a clear but slow fire, or in a baking pan. When sulhciently done, take out the herbs, bacon, and serve them in the paper; drop a very little verjuice on them. Chickens e/t. Caissons.* — Cut the white parts of two chickens into fillets, and marinade them in oil, with salt, pep- per, sweet herbs, chopped, &c. Make some little cases of white paper, and put a thin slice of bacon at the bottom of each, lay in the fillets, strew in some truffles sliced, and moisten them with consommi, or stock ; put the cases in a baking pan, and bake them. When done, put them on a dish with the other parts of the chickens (which must be trussed with the head under the skin of the breast) and pour over the whole some veal gravy and some lemon-juice. Chicken en Capilotade.*—Fut into a stewpan a little butter and flour; add mushrooms, parsley, and shalots cut small, dilute these with equal quantities of stock, and red or white wine. When the sauce is well boiled, skim it; cut a roasted fowl in pieces, and put it into this sauce; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Add some gherkins cut in thin slices. Chickens and Cauliflowers.*— Chop up the livers of two middling sized chickene,and mix with them parsley,scal- lions, a bit of butter, salt and pepper; put this into the bodies of the chickens, which must be trussed like turkey poults; parboil them with a little butter or lard, then wrap in bacon or buttered paper, and roast them. When done, serve them with sauce made of cullis, butter, salt, and pepper, boiled up. Gar- nish with plain boiled cauliflowers. Chickens d la Cendre.* — Stuff' a couple of chickens with a rich farce., lard, and prepare them as for roasting. Line a stewpan with slices of veal and bacon, onions, carrots, &c. place the chickens in it, and let them stew in their own gravy for five or six hours over hot ashes; keep the stewpan closely covered. IVhen done, serve them in their own liquor; but if that should be too thick. put in a little stock or veal gravy ; boil It up two or three times. Chickens and Cheese.* — When the chickens are drawn and trussed, cut them along the back and flatten them ; toss them up in a stewpan with a bit of butter, half a glass of white vvine, and the same of red, parsley, scallion, two cloves, half a clove of garlic, half a bay- leaf, thyme, basil, very little salt and pepper. Stew them gently for about an hour, then take out the chickens and put in a bit of butter the size ofa walnut, worked into some flour, thicken this over the fire. Pour part of this sauce on a dish, and upon the sauce a handful of Gruyere cheese grated; then the chickens ; pour the remainder of the sauce on them, and about as much Gruyere cheese grated on the top, as there is underneath. Put the dish in a baking pan, with fire above and below; when of a good colour, and the sauce is consumed, serve it quite hot. If the cheese be very salt, the chickens must be dressed previously without salt. Chickens en Chervil.*—Make a ra- gofit of two carrots, a parsnip, two or three sliced onions, garlic, two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, and a little but- ter ; when a little coloured add a glass of white wine, an equal quantity of stock, and reduce it to half. Strain, and put in butter (about the size of an egg) work- ed up with some flour, some chopped chervil;; thicken it, and serve it with roast chickens. Chickens d la Chevaliere.* — Chuse twa fat chickens, raise the white part, and lard it, and heat it; then cut it up, and having warmed some butter in a stewpan, put the pieces into it, and leave them on the fire a , minute or two, and toss them (still over the fire) until they are hard ; sprinkle them with flour well mixed with butter, add some hot stock, four spoonsful of well skimmed veloute, parsley, .scallions and pepper; let it boil. When nearly done, put in some equal sized onions peeled, and skim it. On serving take out the parsley, place the pieces of chicken on a dish, and strain the sauce over them, having thickened it with the yolks of three eggs. Another IVay.*—Proceed in the same way as above, only the wings must be laid aside, the skin taken off, and the meat cut from the bones, larded as be- fore mentioned. Lard two of the wings with truffles, and having melted some butter in a baking pan, put in all four wings, sprinkle them with salt, and cover them with buttered paper. The fri- cassee being ready, garnish it with the wings, and four fine cray-fish, andCHI ( ]o2 c n I place a large truffle in the middle and serve. CnrcKENS C/nrhiffaie.—Unv\ne taken oil the feet, beat tlie breast bones of your chickens flat without breaking the skin, flour and fry tliem in butter ; when of a nice brown take all the fat from the pan, leaving in the chickens, over which lay a pound of gravy beef cut in tliin slices, another piece of beef also cut thin, some mace, cloves, pepper, an onion, a carrot, and a bunch of sweet herbs : pour a quart of boiling water over the whole, cover it quite close, and let it stew; in a quarter of an hour take out the chickens, but let the gravy continue boiling, and when very rich strain it; then put it again into the pan with a little red wine and a few mushrooms ; then put in the chick- ens, and when they are hot, dish them up, and pour the sauce over them ; gar- nish with slices of lemon and broiled ham. Chickens A la Condi. Take the breast bones from a couple of fat chickens, bind them to a proper shape, and slit them equally with a penknife, and insert between each slit slices of truffles and tongue « I’vcarlate; place them in an oval stewpan, place bacon all round, but none on the top; put tire on the top of the pan, until the bacon has taken co- lour ; then remove the fire, and let the chickens boil gently for half an hour; take them out, drain and glaze them; serve with a ragofit A I’Allemande. Chickens A la Crime.*—Parboil a conple of young chickens, cut them in pieces, and throw into warm water for half an hour ; then do them over the fire in a little fresh butter, with salt, parsley, pepper, morels, &c. sprinkle with flour, and dilute with a glass of boiling water; cover the stewpan close, and let it stand on hot ashes until the water has soaked into the chicken, when add half a pint of cream and a little butter. The yolks of three eggs may be put in also, bnt in that case, a small quantity of verjuice should be put in before the cream. Second fVay.*—Stuff and roast your chickens, and when you take them from the spit, rub them with butter, cover them with bread-crumbs, wrap them in slices of bacon, and bake them a short time; serve with well thickened cream- sauce. Chickens {Croquettes of).*—Reduce two spoonsful of veloute or sauce tournie, and add to it the yolks of four eggs; put to this the white meat of a chicken minced very small, and well mixed with the sauce, take it out, and roll it into balls about the size of a walnut; roll them in bread-crumbs, giving them an elongated form ; then dip them in some well beaten egg, bi'ead them again, and fry them of a light brown. Chicke.v {Croquettes of) A la Royale. —Mix well into some very thick bicha- melle and some glaze the breast of a chicken, some tongue, truffles and mush- rooms all minced very small: when quite cold roll them into little balls about the size of a nut, and having beaten up three eggs throw the balls into them. Take them out quickly and roll them in bread-crumbs ; dip them a second time into the eggs, and cover them again with bread-crumbs; fry them as other croquettes. Lay fried parsley on a napkin in a dish, place the croquettes on, and round it, and serve. Chickens aux Croutons.* — Stuff a couple of chickens with the livers, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Fry two crusts of bread in some oil, then put them to drain, and in the same oil fry two onions cut in small pieces ; when three parts done,add pars- ley, scallion, shalot, and a fowl’s liver, all minced, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of cullis ; take off" the fat, and season it with salt and bruised pepper; stew it gently for a quarter of an hour. Dish the chickens, and place the crust by the side of them. Chicken Currie. — Take the skinloff, cut up a chicken, and roll each piece in ciirrie-powder and flour (mixed together a spoonful of flour to half an ounce of currie) fry two or three sliced onions in butter ; when of a light brown, put in the meat and fry them together till the meat becomes brown ; tlien stew them together with a little water for two or three hours. More water may be added if too thick. Chickens d VEcarlate.* — Prepare your chickens as usual, take off’the skin with great care, cover them with cray- fish butter, and then put the skin on again ; season them lightly, wrap them in bacon, and roast them; on serving, pour more cray-fish butter on them. If you wish to have the chickens red,and the sauce white, put cream sauce under them. Chickens au.v Ecrevisscs. — Having boned two or three middle-sized chickens, roll them up making them rather pointed at the neck, and braise them with the same number of cray-fish for an liour. Then wipe off'the fat, and put them on a dish in the following manner; |iut the pointed or neck part into the tail of a cray-fish. place the body on the chicken, and the claws at the side. Prepare the sauce as usual, and pour it over the whole.c n I ( 15.3 ) C II 1 CiucKE'ssiFillelsof) with Endive.— Having picked and waalied a dozen heads of endive, blanch them ; wlien tiiey liave draineo on a sieve for a few minutes, rub them tlirough it with a wooden spoon; then let them drain again for an hour or two, and stir them well into a stewpan, \vith a little butter ; when it begins to fry, add rome con- somme, reduce it, put some cream sauce in and boil it till thick; then tnix in the yolks of two eggs; place this in the middle of the dish, and having prepared your fillets, arrange them on the endive <md serve with lechumelle sauce. Chickex (cutlets of) d VEpigramme. —Take the fillets of five chickens, pare tliein well, scrape the small bone of the pinion, and stick it into the point of the fillets, and season them with salt and pepper. Wash them with the yolks of two eggs and dip them in bread-crumbs, then in melted butter. Then in bread- crumbs a second time, so that they may be entirely covered. Do not broil till just as they are wanted. Put filets mignons in scollops, in a sauce d blan- gnelfe with mushrooms, and serve ; or dress the filets entire, and place them and the cutlets on a dish alternately, with allemunde quite thin. Chickens d I’ Ex'cellence. — Make a ragofit as folloivs :—slice a quarter of a pound of pickled pork, and let it stand over the fire in some water, till nearly done; then add to it some fat livers, truffles, shalots, and parsley chopped, whole pepper, and a glass of white wine, thicken with the yolks of two eggs; when cold, put some of this under the skins af two fat chickens, and the re- mainder into the body; give them a turn or two in the frying pan, in some butter and lemon-juice, then wrap in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the mean- time put some slices of bacon, ham, veal, carrots, parsnips, onions sliced, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, and a spoonful of oil into a stewpan close covered for half an hour; then add a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and braise them for an hour and a half: skim and strain it, and put some shalots, butter and flour to it,'and serve on the chickens. Chickens I Feet amt Forcemeat. Scald the skin from as many feet as you may require, lie them in a bundle and braise them till tender.andthen dry them in a cloth. Make a good forcemeatand fill the claws with it, dip them in egg and then in bread crumbs; egg them and dip,in bread crumbs a second time, press it well on, and fry them in lard. Lay them on fried parsley and serve. Chickens d la Folelte,—carrots and par.snips into any form you please, and boil them with a few small onions iii a little stock. In the meaniime cut mushrooms, truffles and ham into very small pieces, and stew them in some butter, with sweet herbs, two cloves, 'thyme and a bay-leaf; when these are coloured, add some veal gravy and a glass of white wine, and boil the whole slowly until sufficiently done, then skim and put it, with a littlecullis, and a few olives stoned, to the carrots ; pour this ragofit on two chickens,_ stiiired with their livers, &c. rolled in bacon and paperand roasted. Chickens Fricasseed.*—Prepare and cut up two chickens; put them in a stew- pan with some butter, parsley, scallions, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, two cloves, mushrooms, and a slice of ham; let them stew till scarcely any sauce remains, then add a little flour, warm water, salt and pepper; stew it again and reduce the sauce. When nearly done put in the jmlks of three eggs beaten up with a little cream or milk ; thicken it over the fire, but do not let it boil ; a small quan- tity of lemon-juice or vinegar may be added. Place the breasts and bones of the chickens on a dish, lay the legs and wings over them, and then pour the sauce over the whole; garnish with the mushrooms. Take on the skins before you cut up the chickens if you wish the fricassee very white. Chickens d la Bourdois.* —Proceed as above, but when the chickens are dished up strew bread-crumbs over them, and on that put several pieces of butter about the size of a pea, and then brown it with the salamander, or in the. oven. Chickens (Fricassee of) a VAlle~ mande.* Parboil and cut up the chickens, and then, having put them into warm water for half an hour, stew them in some butter, with parsley, mo- rels, scallions, garlic, pepper, salt, a glass of stock, and half a glass of cham- pagne ; when nearly done add to this the yolks of three eggs beaten up with a few drops of water and some lemon- juice ; stir it well the same way until finished. Chickens Fricasseed JVhite. — Skin, cut up your chickens and lay them in warm water j then stew them till tender in water, with lemon-peel, white wine, an. anchovy, an onion, two or three cloves, sweet herbs. Take out the chickens when done, strain the liquor, and put a very little of it to a quarter of a pint of cream, four ounces of butter and a little flour ; stir it over the fire till the butter is melted ; tlien put the chickens in again, add some gratedc n 1 ■A ) C II I (1 lemon-peel, poundeil mace, lemon-juice, and muahroum powder. Sliake all over the fire, and serve very hot. Chickens {Cold) Fried. —Cut the chicken into quariers, and rub each quarter with yolk of egg. Mi.x some bread-crumbs with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel and shred parsley, cover the chickens with this, and fry them. Thicken some gravy witli (lour, and add to it cayenne pepper, mush- room-powder or catsup, and a little le- mon-juice. Serve the chickens witli this gravy. Chickens en Friteau.* Cut the chickens in pieces and put them into a marinade of sweet oil, lemon-juice, vine- gar, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and sliced onions. In about two hours drain them, sprinkle them with flour, and fry them. Place them on a dish, with the slices of onion on the top, and fried eggs above them. Make a sauce of oil, lemon, parsley, and tarragon chopped, salt, pepper and garlic. Chicken Fritters. — Make a batter with four eggs, some new milk, and rice- flour ; to this, add a pint of cream, pow- der-sugar, candied lemon-peel cut small, fresh lemon-peel grated, and the white parts of a roasted chicken shred small; set all these together on a stove, and st'r well for some time.; when done, take it off, roll out the mixture, cut it into frit- ters, and fry them ; strew sugar on a dish, lay in the fritters, strew sugar over, and serve them hot. Chickens {Galantine of). — Bone a nice plump cliicken very carefully, cut some ham and truffles into slips of an equal thickness, and as near of a length as possible; cut the chicken also into fillets, and add a few slices of veal; form a sort of bed of these in the skin of the chicken, so that when cut, the slices may be chequered : season with all sorts of spices; close tlie skin, form it of a pro- per shape; sew up the back, and stew it, covered with slices of bacon, and pars- ley, onions, thyme, a bay-leaf, a clove, a little spice, carrots, two onions, and some slices of veal; then mix a little broth, and a small quantity of calf’s-foot jelly. When the jelly has boiled an hour take it off, and let it cool in the liquor. If tliis dish is served hot, pour over it any brown sauce ; it is, however, better served cold; take some of the liquor, beat the whites of two or three eggs, and mix tliem with the cold jelly, after having skimmed off the fat: then put the whole over the fire again, and stir till the liquor is white ; then let it boil gently; next take the jelly from the fire, and lay it aside, with a cover and fire over it; when quite clear, strain it through a cloth, and let cool, t'l be used when wanted. If served cold, more pepper and salt must be used. Chicke.vs d la Genoise*—Bone two pliirnp chickens, and fill them with a stuffing made of fat livers, six anchovies, truffles and small onions, all chopped very small. Soak them in oil with lemon-juice ; finish them in veal-gravy, and add some morels and artichoke bottoms. Chickens OK Gratin.—Cut cold roast- ed chicken into pieces, and simmer them for a quarter of an hour in a few spoons- ful of cullis, half a gl.ass of white wine, butter, chopped parsley, shalots, mush- rooms, and season with salt and pepper. When done, place on a dish, with half the sauce, and bread crumbs under them ; set the dish over the fire till it catches at bottom, then serve with the rest of the sauce; Chickens {Grenade of). — Line a mould, ribbed like a melon, with thin slices of bacon ; cut some fillets of chickens ; lard half of them with bacon, and the others with truffles; lay them alternately in the ribs of the mould, and place between each a previously cooked lamb’s sweetbread ; cover the whole with a farce fine ; put a satpicoyi in the cen- tre ; cover that also with the farce ; stick it with forcemeat, and put the mould either in the oven or the bain marie. When done, turn it out; dry the larded slices with the salamander, and glaze them; when of a light brown, uncover thereat, glaze them slightly, and serve with espagnole. Chicken Haslets.*—Cut a cold roast chicken into pieces, and put them upon skewers like a haslet; dip each into egg, beaten up with salt, pepper, parsley, and onions, chopped ; strew bread- crumbs over ; dip them in butter again, bread them a second time, and broil; baste them occasionally with a little oil. Serve tliem with or without sauce. Chickens Histories.—Prepare chick- ens as for roasting, and having given them a turn or two over the fire in a little butter, with the addition of lemon- juice to preserve their whiteness; take them out and wipe them very clean; peel a large onion carefully, and cut it in thin slices, so as to preserve the rings, of which take two or three, dip them in white of egg, place them on the brea-sts, in such forms as you may think proper ; lay in these rings preparations of any colour (see Colours). >;our please, basting the chickens with white of egg to make the colour adhere properly, then cover them with thin slices of bacon, and braiseC III C II I () them for an hour; take ofl' the bacon carefully; add ciillis to the sauce, skim and strain it over the chickens. Chickens, Horlyof*—Singe, and cut up two fat chickens the same as for a fricassee; put the pieces into ajar; sea- son them with salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, two bay-leaves, and the juice of two lemons; wash and peel a di zen large onions, as near of the same size as they can be ; cut them into slices of equal thickness, making use only of the outer rings. About liali an hour before they are wanted, drain your pieces ol chicken, sprinkle them well with flour, and put them into a moderately heated pan; when they are of a proper colour, and sufficiently done, lay them on a clean cloth to drain ; then make your pan very hot, and having well floured the onion rings, fry them also of a good colour; drain them on a cloth ; dish the chickens en buisson, with the onions on the top, and a hot aspic underneath. Chicke.n d VIndienne.* — Fry some sliced onions in lard, with a little flour ; when of a nice colour, take them out carefully, and keep them hot; in the same lard fry a chicken, blanched and cut up ; do it of a good colour, and then add some slock ; season it with salt, allspice, cayenne pepper, and turmeric ; when the chicken is done enough, put in the onions, and let all boil together for two or three minutes. Serve some plain boiled rice on a separate dish, to eat with it. Chickens d I’lvoire. — Pull out the breast-bones of a couple of chickens, and then fill them with butter, lemon-juice, salt and pepper, well mixed together; bind up the chickens, and put them into astewpan, lined with bacon; cover the breasts with slices of lemon and bacon, pour some poele on them. When they have stewed for half an hour, drain, un- b'nd, and serve them with veloute or buchamelle. «, Chickens d la Jardiniere.*—Sorkyour chickens (having tiussed and cut each in half), in hot butter, parsley, scallions, garlic, mushrooms, (all chopped), salt and pepper ; make as much ot these ad- here to the. chickens as you possibly can ; cover them with bread crumbs, and broil them, basting fiequently with the remainder of the butter. When of the proper colour, make a sauce witli a little gravy, three spoonsful of verjuice, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and the yolks of two eggs; thicken this, and pour it over the chickens when ready to serve. Chickens in Jelly, or an Pere Donillet. —Lard a couple of chickens wdth bacon rolled in spices and sweet herbs, and boil them with a knuckle of veal, half a pint of white wine, cloves, parsley, shalots, thyme, bay-leaf, and coriander; when done, take out the chickens, and let them cool; tlien skim and strain the liquor, and boil it a short time, with a lemon sliced, and a raw egg to clarify it; when that is done, strain it through a napkin. Place the chickens in a pan just big enough to hold them; wash them over with white of egg, garnish them with sprigs of parsley, and colour tiiem if you think proper. Let the chickens lay with the breasts downwards, and cover them with the jelly. When they are wanted, place the pan a minute in hot water, and turn the chickens over gently. Chickens en Lezard.* — Draw and singe two fine chickens, take off the drumsticks and pinions, leaving the skin ; split them open thiough the back, bone them entirely, and lay them on a cloth ; fill the inside with a farce, made with ready dressed fowl, truffles, cham- pignons, tongue « Vecarlate, and calf’s udoer, cut into dice ; form the cliickena with the farce into the shape of lizards, as follows: the skin of the rump make the tail, the thighs make the hind, and the wings the fore-legs, the breast lorrna the hack, and the head is composed of a truffle cut like that of a lizard. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, lay in the lizards, carefully preserving their shape, and stew them, covered with a thick paper and the lid of the stewpan. When done, drain, and set them to cool. Place them on your dish ; glaze and decorate them with small omelets, either white, green, red or yellow; serve them on a green magnonnaise, and garnish the dish with jelly. Chicken Loo/.*—Bone a chicken very carefully, and fill it with a ragofit of sweetbreads; make it as near as possible the original form ; tie it up in bacon, and wrap a cloth round it. Boil it in some white wine, stock, with sweet herbs. Serve it witli espaqnole. Chickens d la Marengo.*—Cnt up a roasted chicken, and fry it in olive oil, witli salt, mushrooms, and sweet herbs ; when of a proper colour, take out the chicken ; place it in a dish, and pour over some well redticed sauce Italiemie; garnish with eggs or crusts fried in oil. Chickens d la Marice. — 'J'ake the bones from two small chickens, and fill tliem With a farce made of fat livers, parsley, shalots, b.asil, (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper and salt. Soak them for some time in od, then wrap them in thin slices of bacon, veal and bam, over that, double-buttered paper. Stew them on a slow lire tillc n I ( ) C II I done. Take ofi all wrapper?, and serve vvitli nonxjureil sauce. Chickens a la Marmottc.—Boil some carrots and par.snips, cut into shapes, with some small onions, in a little brotli; in the mean time cut some mushrooms and pickled cucumbers into dice, and stew them in a bit of butter, garlic, pars- ley, uiloves, stock, salt and pepper ; when they have boiled slowly for a little time, add a spoonful of cullis, and the carrots, &c.; boil them up together, and serve over roasted chickens. Chickens Marines.*—Cut your chick- ens, and soak them in stock, vinegar, or verjuice, salt and pepper: place them on hot ashes for half an iiour. Beat three whites of eggs to a strong froth, and then dip in each piece of chicken ; flour it, and fry them of a nice colour. Chickens Muroquin.* — Choose two fine lilt chickens, and give them a few turns over the fire in a little oil; let them cool, and dry them thoroughly. Make a stufling with the livers, truflies, streaked bacon, butter, salt, pepper, herbs, &c. all chopped small, unite them with the yolks of two eggs; fill the chickens with this, and put some under the thighs and wings; place slices of hacon over it, so that the stufling may remain in its proper place. Put two large slices of bacon over that, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them. You may serve them, either with cray-fish, butter, or blond. Chickens ew Matelote.*—Blanch about a dozen small white onions, and then throw them into cold water to take off the skin. Cut two carrots and a parsnip into pieces, three inches long, pare them 10 an equal size; prepare the fol- lowing ;—a small piece cf butter, two pinches of flour, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and brown them ; put the carrots, par.snip, and onions into it, with the addition of parsley, scallions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, half a clove of garlick, pepper, and salt; boil these gently, for half an hour. Take one large, or two small chickens, set them on the fire a minute or two, and then cut each in four; put them into the above rngofit and boil for an hour. When very little fauce remains, take oil" the fat, and add a chopped anchovy, and a few capers. Second waq.*—Cut a couple of chick- ens into quarters, and put them into a stewpan lined with bacon and small onions; after they have been in a short time, add to them an eel cut in pieces, a small fish, and a dozen cray-fish, with salt, pepper, bay-leaves, and morels; moisten the whole with equal quantities of stock and white wine; cover the stew- pan, and let it stand over a moderate fire for three hours. Place all the pieces on a dish, and gar- nish it with cray-fish and fried crusts, put .alternately, and pour the sauce over it. Chickens d la St. Menehoult.*—Put two chickens into a stewpan with some butter, a glass of white wine, -sal t, pepper, parsley, scallion, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; stew it gently, and let the sauce adhere to the chickens; then soak them in eggs beaten, cover them with bread-crumbs, dip them into butter, bread-crumbs again, and broil them. Chicken Milk.*—Boil half a pint of water; beat up the yolks of two egus with an ounce of powder-sugar, a little orange-flower water, and salt; mix these well, until the egg liegins to whiten, then add the boiling water, stirring it very quick, and drink it as hot as possible. Chickens 2n a —Cuta chicken in pieces, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter; add to it some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, sprinkle flour over, and shake them; moisten it with stock or water, and white wine; when it has boiled once, take it from the fire and put in the yolks of one or two eggs, and a little vinegar or lemon-juicc. Chickens a la Napolitaine.*—Take a cold fricassee of chickens, which must be pretty thick, and mix it with some macaroHi, boiled in a little stock, and dr.ained ; put to it a little butter, a ladle- ful of sauce tournee, some grated Parme- san and Gruyere cheeses, and coarse pepper; stir it well, and then place a thick layer in a stewpan, put the pieces of chicken on it, cover them with the sauce and macaroni, strew b> cad-crumbs very thickly over the whole, wash it with melted butter, bread it again, and bake it. Chickens aux Xoitilles.—Are dressed in the same way as d I'Ivoirc, and served with nouilles. Chickens pelits (Eufs composees. —Braise a couple of chickens cut into quarters, and when they are done, skim and strain the sauce, and thicken it with the yolks of three egns. In the nie.m- time, soak bread-crumbs in cullis. and when quite thick, put them in a mort.nr with shalot. beet-marrow, and the yolks of four or five hard eggs, pepper and .salt; mix in the yolks ol two raw eggs well, and make these ingredients into little balls, roll them in flour, and give them a boil in some stock. Serve them with the sauce ns .above, upon the chickens. Chickens \cith O/iro/if.* —Put someC II I slices of bacon, oil, salt, and plenty of small onions, in a atewpan; when the latter are half done, pour over them a pint of stock, a liltle white wine, fennel, parsley, &c.; the whole being nearly clone, put in a couple of pale roasted chickens, stew them about a quarter of an hour, and then serve them with the sauce reduced. Chicke.vs and young Oysters.*—Fill your chickens with young oy.sters cut small, truffles, parsley, and spices, and roast them. Blanch about two dozen young oysters, and toss them up in some melted butter, with chopped herbs and olive oil. When they have been on the fire a quarter of an hour, add a little white wine and half a glass of good stock, thicken it over the fire for another quar- ter of an hour, and when the chickens are ready to serve, pour the sauce on them, and garnish the dish with oysters and some lemon. Chicken Panada.—Boil a chicken in a quart of water until nearly done ; then skin it, cutoff the white meat, and pound it with a little of the liquor it was boiled in to a thick paste; season it with salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; boil it up all together for a few minutes. Chickens au Parmesan. — Braise a couple of chickens as usual, and when nearly done, add to them some stock, white wine, cullis, and butter, season according to taste. When sufficiently done, strain some of the sauce into your dish, and grate into it Parmesan cheese; place the chickens in this, and pour over the remainder of the sauce; grate more Parmesan on, and bake it. Chickens aicx Pavies.—Fry two or three fat chickens trussed quite round, in butter for a minute or two; lay a few slices of lemon on the breasts, wrap each in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them. Cut some pickled nectarines in slices, taking oft’ the skin ; soak them a little while in water, and then warm them in some gravy and cullis mixed to- gether, and serve them with the roasted chickens. Chickens a, la Perle.—Split and bone two chickens, leaving the legs ; fill each piece with a salpiuon made of sweet- breads, mushrooms, scraped bacon, parsley, shalots, seasoned with sa.t, and pepper, and roll it up like a pear-shaped pearl, making the leg the point; sew them up, and braise them with veal, bacon, stock, a glass of white wine, two slices of peeled lemon, parsley, half a clove of garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, two cloves, pepper, and salt; when done, take out the chickens, skim and strain ( 157 ) C II I the sauce, put a little cullis in._ duce it, and serve it with the f Chicken P/e.—Cut a couple of cUick- ens into pieces, and season eacn pi with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace Line a dish with puft’-paste, and ^ layer of forcemeat on it; then put in tne chickens, with some sweetbreads cut la pieces, and seasoned ham sliced thin, truffles, morels, artichoke-bottoms quar- tered, the yolks of hard eggs, chopped, fresh mushrooms, cock’s combs, and as- paragus ; add a little water, cover the pie with puft’-paste, and bake it. When don^ pour in some rich gravy, thickened with flour and butter. If the pie is to be eaten cold, the truffles, morels, and mushrooms must be omitted. Second way.—Vwt half a dozen small chickens in a dish with puff-paste, as above, with the marrow of two bones rolled in a batter of eggs, a bit of butter rolled in sweet herbs, a dozen hard eggs, and two dozen savory balls; cover and bake as before. Pour in a quart of gravy when done. Chicken Pie ( 5ioeef) .—Having broken the bones of four chickens, cut them m pieces, season them with mace, cinn^ mon, and salt, and put them into a dish with the yolks of four hard eggs cut m quarters, five artichoke-bottoms; of sun- raisins stoned, citron, lemon, eringo- root, marrow, and currants, eight ounces of each ; four slices of lemon (peeled), and fifty balls of forcemeat; cover the whole with rich pufF-paste, and bake. Boil a pint of white wine with the yolks of tvvo eggs ; sweeten and put it to the pie when baked. Serve it quite hot. Chicken and Ham Pie.—Season some slices of boiled ham, and lay them on a puff-paste about half an inch thick; then season some pieces of chicken, and place them on the ham, with the yolks of some hard eggs, a few truffles and morels, cover these with more slices of ham, seasoned as before, put some gravy in, and a puff-crust on the top, and bake it thoroughly. If to be eaten hot, more gravy may be ridded when done. Chicken aiid Parsley P/e.—Skin and cut up a chicken, season the pieces with salt; pick and scald some parsley, and when squeezed quite dry, cut it, and lay it in the pie dish ; then the pieces of chicken, parsley and chicken again, un- til the dish is full. Put new milk nearly to the top of the dish, cover and bake it. When done, take out some of the milk, and add in its place a pint of scalded cream. Chickens d la Pierrette.—Take half a dozen erjual sized chicken wings; lardc n I ( ijs) c ;i I two of ilipm with bacon, two with truflles. or any kind of root you please, and the remaining tiyo with ham ; braise them with a few slices of bacon, some carrots, sweet herbs, consomme^ and half a glass of white wine. When done, take them out, and glaze three of them ; arrange them on a dish, with the sauce, (skim- med, strained, and properly reduced with a little cullis) under them. Chickens ewfreffcwai Plats.—Lard two chickens, partly with ham, and partly with bacon, stuff, and put them into a deep dish, with slices of bacon, pepper, salt, cloves, parsley, carrots, and pars- nips, onions, peeled-lemon sliced, and lialf a glass of rvhite wine; cover them with another deep dish, and place them over the fire ; let them simmer tilt done ; skim, strain, and add some butter and flour to the sauce, and serve it with the chickens. Chickens a la Poele.* —Cut your chickens in half, and do them over the fire w'ith a bit of butter, garlic, two shalots, mushrooms, parsley, scallions, all minc- ed, a little flour, and a glass of white wine, the same of stock, salt and pepper, reduce it to a thick sauce; take off the fat and serve. Chicken and Ham — Season some pieces of chicken, with mace, cloves, and pepper, and bake them for about three hours in a close covered pan with some water; then pound them quite small, moistening either with melted butter, or the liquor they were baked in. Pound also some ham, and put this with the chicken in alternate layers, in pot- ting pans, press them down tight, and cover them with butter. Chicken Puffs.—Mmce the breast of a chicken, some lean ham, half an an- chovy, a little parsley, shalots, and lemon-peel, season these with pepper, salt, cayenne, and beaten mace; set them on the fire a few minutes, in a little bvchamelle; roll out some puff'-paste thin, cut it into square pieces, and lay in each seme of the above mixture ; turn the paste over, and fry them in boiling lard, and serve them on fried parsley. Chickens Pulled.—Cut off the logs, rump, and side-bones of a cold chicken, and pull all the white parts (without the skin) into shreds; toss them up in a little cream, flour, butter, pounded mace, pepper, salt and lemon juice, stir them together till the butter is melted; then lay it in a dish, place the rump in the middle, and the legs at each end, having previously se.asoned and broiledthem. Chickens en Hediusoles.* —P.wt the chickens into quarters, take out all the bones; make a/arec of fat livers, veal, parsley, pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and the yolks of two or three eggs; put some of this upon each limb, put several of them together, cover them with the same, wrap them in paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, take off tlie paper very carefully, so as not to remove tlie/arce from the chicken, place it on a hot dish, and pour llond over it. Chickens a la Reine. — Cut all the meat from some cold roasted chickens, which may have, been served before, and take out the breast-bone; mince the meat, and make it into a farce with cream, suet, grated bacon; parsley, sha- lots, pepper, salt, nutmeg; unite these with the yolks of four eggs, stuff the chickens with tliis, as if they were whole; smooth them with a knife dipped in wliitc of eggs ; cover them with bread crumbs, and bake them. When of a nice brown colour, pour sauce cl la reine over, and serve. Chickens au Reveil. * — Stuff two chickens with the livers, parsley, scal- lions, two tarragon leaves, all chopped, and mixed together with butter, and having parboiled them in a little fat or butter, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. In the meantime, put the butter in which the chickens were parboiled, into a stewpan, with two car- rots, two onions sliced, garlic, cloves, thyme, basil; stew, but do not let them he coloured; put in a glass of white wine, and another of stock, and stew them to- gether for half an hour, and then strain it. Then take some salad herbs, such as tarragon, pimpernel, chives, chervil, and cress, of each according to your taste, so as altogether to make half a handful; chop them very small, and infuse them in the above sauce, on hot ashes, for half an hour. Then strain it, press the herbs quite dry, and add to it a bit of butter, worked with flour, salt, aud pepper, thicken, and serve it with the chickens. Chickens Roasted.—When your chick- ens are properly trussed, put them down to a clear fire, and let them roast for a quarter of an hour, froth them well, and serve with gravy, or parsley and butter. Second tray.—Put the chicken between slices of bacon, fasten the feet to tlie spit, and b.sste with its own gravy. Serve with cress round the dish, season- ed with salt and vinegar. The cliicken when covered with bacon should be wrapped in buttered p.-iper, and if re- quired to he of a pale colour, kept on till roasted ; if not. remove the paper shout five minutes before it is done, and finisk it before a clear quick fire.( 159 ) cut C K I Chickens A In Rotmiite.*—Lard a fine fillet of veal, make a hole at one end laiye enough to contain a small stutted chicken, sew it up, and put it into a stew- pan, with a few slices of veal and ham, same parsley, shalots, two cloves, basil, stock and a little pepper; simmer it over a slow fire, when done, skina and strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and spread it over the fillet of veal, with a feather. Then put some cullis to the remains of the glaze, and strain it over the meat, and serve. Chickens au Romestic.—Cut as great a number of small slices of fillets of meat from a tender rabbit as you possibly can, and soak in oil, or melted butter, with chopped shalots, truffles, mushrooms, and parsley; season them with pepper, nutmeg, and salt; take the breast-bones from two chickens, so as not to break the skins, and fill them with the above, and sew it in; then having given them a turn in butter over the fire, wrap them in bacon and paper, and roast them. Chop up the bones and remains of the rabbit, and set them to simmer with some poul- try legs and pinions, half a glass of white wine, and three spoonsful of cullis; skim this sauce well, and strain it over the chickens. Chicken Salad.* — Cut cold_ roast fowl into small long pieces, taking off the skin. Lay some lettuce, cut small, at the bottom of a salad-bowl, put the chicken on it with all sorts of salading, gherkins, hard eggs cut in quarters, an- chovies, cut in slips, season with the usual salad dressing. Instead of a let- tuce, parsley and scallions, cut small, may be used. Chicken Salad A la Magnonnaise.*— Trim the fillets of six fat chickens, toss them in a little butter; then drain them in a napkin, press them lightly between two saucepan lids, and let them cool; in the meantime, dress the twelve fillets viignons A la Conti, with truffles _ or tongue A I’ecarlate, place them in a dish, cutting them in the form of a horse-shoe, then let them cool. Cut six lettuces small, season them in the usual way, and lay the salad on a table-dish, form it into a sort of crown, upon which arrange your fillets alternately, first a large one, then one, A la Conti. Surround the whole with a border of aspic jelly. Pour into the centre of your crown a magnon- naiso ravigotte.' Chickens Salad, A la Tfeiwe.*—Roast 1 four fine plump chickens, and when cold I cut them in pieces; toss them up in an I earthen pan with salt, a mignonnette, oil, 1 vinegar, parsley, an onion or shalot cut I small, cover them with paper, and leave them in this for some hours. Boil eight eggs (as nearly the same size as possible) hard, and cool them in taking olT the shells. Wash six lettuces, take oil the leaves, keeping the hearts quite small ; cut the leaves a.s fine as you can, se.ason them as for common salad, and lay them on a table-dish; then having drained the chickens, and separated them from the parsley. &c. lay the legs on the let- tuce leaves en couronnc, in the centre of which place the wings; on the_legs put the rumps and two of the breasts ; on these the fillets as close as possible, lay- ing them alternately flat and upright; and on the top of the fillets the two breasts which remain; be careful in keep- ing this dish as high and upright as pos- sible. Cut the hard eggs each into eight pieces, put them round the dish as a bor- der, and between every piece set upright a lettuce heart; and on the top of all lay the half of an egg, with a lettuce heart in the middle. Then mix together a good pinch of chervil, some tarragon and pimpernel leaves, scalded, and shred small,salt, pepper,oil, ravigotte vinegar, and a spoonful of aspic jelly. Amalga- mate the whole well, and pour it over the salad. Chicken Sausages.—Make two farces, one of bread crumbs, roasted breast of fowl, calf’s udder, marrow, baked onions, parsley, shalots, mushrooms, all chopped very fine, mixed together with a spoon- ful of brandy, a little cream, and the yolks of five eggs; make the other of scalded sweetbread, livers, mushrooms, season both with spices, salt and pepper. Split a couple of chickenS through tire backbone, and lay in each half, some of the first mentioned farce, and on that some of the second, roll them up, tie, and braise them with a glass of white wine, the same of stock and some bacon. When done, let them cool; then put tbe rest of the farce round them, wrap them in caul, dip them in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and bake them. Strain, and mix some cullis and lemon- juice with the liquor in which tlie chickens were braised, and serve it with them. Chicken Scalloped.—Mince some cold chicken, and heat it up with a little cream, pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; put this into scallop-shells, and cover them with bread-covers; put some butter over, and brown them. Chickens in the Scotch manner.—Cut your chickens into quarters, put them into a saucepan, with only just water enough to cover them, a bunch of parsley, some chopped parsley, and a little mace, cover them close down, when it boils, add p .T ’( ICO ) C II I c n I six epga wpII beaten ; when the cliickens are done, take (mt tlie parsley, and serve them in a deep dish with the sauce. Chickens, (Sot/ffle of).— Mince the vhite part of cold roasted chickens, pound it in a mortar, with some bdeha- melle, butter, pepper, salt, and the wlks of four eggs; when well beat, strain it through a tammy; then beat the whites of five eggs to a solid froth, mix it with the former, and put the whole into a deep dish, or raised pie-crust, and bake it in a moderate oven. Chicken Slewed.—Cut a carp with a fine roe into pieces, cut a chicken also into pieces, and put them into a stewpan together, with a slice of ham, some mushrooms, parsley, scallions, thyme, bay leaf, basil, two cloves, a small piece of butter. When these have simmered together a little while, add some stock, a glass of wine, a little cullis, flour, pep- per and salt, boil them until the chicken 18 done, then take out the carp, (leaving the roe), the ham and parsley, and put in their place a chopped anchovy, and a few capers. Place the chicken on a dish mixed with the onions and roe. Take the fat from the sauce, and strain it over the whole. Chickens Stuffed. — Boil a pint of milk with a handful of bread crumbs, until very thick ; when cold, bent it up in a mortar, with chopped parsley, and onions, thyme, a bay-leaf, butter, the yolks of four eggs, pepper and salt, stuff two chickens with this, sew it in, and roast the chickens between rashers of bacon. Serve with the following sauce; a hit of buttern-olled in flour, some stock, vinegar, a chopped anchovy, a few capers, salt and nutmeg, thickened over the fire. Chickens and Tarragon.*—Blanch some tarragon leaves for a quarter of an hour, then throw them into cold water, and when well drained, chop th^m very small, and mix a fourth part of it with the minced livers of two chickens, a bit of butter, salt and pepper, and stuff the two chickens, drawn and trussed, with it, put them into a stewpan with some but- ter, and do them up in it; then lay some bacon on the breasts, wrap them in paper, and roast them. In the mean- time put the rest of the tarragon into a saucepan, with a bit of butter worked into flour, the yolks of two eggs, half a glass of meat gravy, two S|)oonsful of stock, a little vinegar, salt and pepper. Thicken it over the fire, but do noc boil it, lest the eggs turn. Serve this sauce over the chickens. Chickens A la Tartare. * —Having prepared your chicken, parboil, and cut ft in half; break the bones, and soak it in melted fresh butter, with pai-slcy, scallions, mushrooms, and garlic, cut up small, pepper, and salt. Dip it again in butter, bread it, and broil on a clear fire. It may be served either dry, or with any clear sauce you think proper. Second way.*—Split and break, and take out the bones of two young chickens, press them into a round form, season, and wash them over with yolk of egg; cover them with bread crumb.*, flatten them a little, and broil over a clear fire. Serve them with sauce Italieniie A la Tartare, or veal gravy. Chickens {Mince) in Tw/irt/e.—^fake a baiter with two spoonsful of flour, some grated nutmeg, four eggs stirred in, one at a time, and some new milk ; it must not be too thin ; fry it as for pancakes, but lay it very thin in the pan, and colour it on one side only ; cut each (except two or three) in half; lay a whole one at the bottom of a buttered mould, and the others round the sides; nearly fill up the mould with a thick mince of chicken, turn the ends of the pancakes over it, and lay another whole one at the top. Bake it in a moderate oven, and when done, turn it on a dish, and serve with good gravy. Chickens and Tomata Sauce.*—Mix together, in a stewpan, a little butter, salt, pepper, lemon-juice, and grated nutmeg, a sufficient quantity to put in two chickens; tie it in, and lay thin, slices of lemon on the breast of the chick- ens, and lay them in a stewpan lined with thin rashers of bacon; cover them with the same, and stew them with fire above and below for three quarters of an hour; when done, drain them in a cloth; untie them, and serve with tomata sauce. Chickens and Tongues.—Boil half a dozen young chickens, a cauliflower, spinach, and six pigs’ tongues, peeled. Place the cauliflower in the centre of a dish, the chickens round it, and beyond them the tongues, with the roots out- ward; lay the spinach in small heaps between each tongue. Garnish the whole with toasted bacon. The cauliflower should be boiled in milk and water, and kept quite whole. Chicken and Truffles.* — Wash and pare some truffles, and turn them over the fire with a bit of butter and half a pound of grated bacon. Fill a chicken ivith tl'.is mixture, and truss it so that none of the stuffing can escape; tie a slice of bacon and some paper on the breast; roast it, and serve with truffle sauce. Chickens a la Turque.— Boil .«ome rice in good consomme, until properlyC II I 161 ) CHI I swelled; then season it, and fill two chickens with half of it (have s sufficient quantity to stuli’them quite full). Wrap them in bacon and buttered paper, and roast them for an hour; mix one spoon- ful of cream and four of bechamelle with the remainder of tlie rice ; season it well, and cover the chickeas with it, and serve them. Chickens with Vegetables * — Cut some young and tender artichokes in quai-ters; take out the choke, and cutoff the ends of the green leaves; blanch and boil them in stock, with slices of lemon ; when nearly done, drain them, and do them up in aslewpan, with some butter, parsley, scallions, and shalots, stock, a little oil, salt, pepper, and fen- nel; reduce this sauce, and having boiled or pale-roasted two chickens, pour it over, and place the artichokes round them. Instead of artichokes, any of the following vegetables may be used ; chards, sorrel, spinach, lettuce, cucum- bers, French beans, morels, pease, or salsify. Chickens d la Venitienne.*—Parboil two or three fat chickens in some stock, with a little butter, and having cut them up, lay them in a stevvpan lined with slices of bacon; surround them with well blanched parsley roots, and put in a bunch of green parsley. Cover the pieces of chicken with slices of veal, salt and pepper, and moisten with consomme; let it stand over a moderate fire, and when half done, add a glass of white champagne. When done, arrange the pieces on a dish, and place the parsley roots and leaves round; reduce the sauce, and pour it, with Seville orange-juice, on the whole. You may omit the wine, if you think proper ; but roots of any sort you please must then be added. Chickens d la Villageoise.—Take out the breast-bones of a couple of chickens, and truss them as for boiling; lard them on the breast with sprigs of parsley, and on the sides with bacon; roast them; baste with lard to keep the parsley crisp. In the meanwhile prepare a ragodt of cucumbers; split open the breasts of the chickens when they are ready, and put in the i-agobt. Serve with cullis under them. Chicken fVater. — Take a cock, or large fowl, flay it; then bruise it with a hammer, and put it into a gallon of water, with a crust of bread. Let it boil half away, and strain it off Chicke.vs {Fillets of) d la Bechamelle Pannee.—Cntoft'the hind parts (the legs and rumps) wrap the breasts in buttered papers and roast them ; when cold, cut them in fillets and put them into a dish with bechamelle sauce ; strew bread- crumbs on them, and baste with melted butter; colour it with a salamander, .or in the oven. Chicken {Fillets of) in Italian Salad. —Cut the fillets of one or two chickens, each into three thin slices. Shred a cabbage, a lettuce, and some celery small; slice some cucumbers, and mix them all with a little pickled chervil, and put them in a salad-dish, arrange the fillets on these in the shape of a star. Garnish them with twohard eggs, half a doz»n an- chovies shred small, a few French beans, a cauliflower boiled, and a sliced cu- cumber, and dress it with Italian salad sauce. Chickens {Fillets of) in Savory Jelly. —Cut the meat of two roasted chickens into thin fillets, the size of a shilling ; prepare some savory or aspic jelly, by putting the whites ol four eggs in a kew- pan, about three spoonsful of tarragon vinegar, and a little salt; beat them up with a fork, pour two quarts of good consomme, stir it over the fire, continu- ally, till it boils; then take out the spoon and let it simmer till reduced to half. Run it gently through a jelly-bag, throw in a little chopped tarragon and chervil; half fill a mould with the jelly, and when nearly set, place the chicken neatly round, and wlien quite set, fill it up. When the whole is quite stiff, dip the mould in warm water a minute, and turn out the jelly. Chickens {Turbans of Fillets of) a kc Sultane.—Cover a large piece of bread with thin slices of bacon ; place it in the middle of a dish, and surround it to the height of three inches, with a farce il quenelles that has been kept in ice, stick in this, at equal distances, larded filets mignons of chickens; cover the dish with an earthen pan as close as possible, and bake it; when done, glaze the filets, and make a small hole in the farce be- tween each filet to receive a cock’s kid- ney, which must be very white, so as to resemble a pe.ari. Take the bread from the centre, drain the fat oft'with crumb of bread, and put in its place a blanquette of chickens. If truffles are in season, garnish with a ball made out of a truffle, and the perle o>.- kidney ; and then scol- lops, with truffles, in the middle. Chickens {Scollops of) d la Conti.— 1 toceed as above; reserve the filets mignons, garnish with truffles, cut into various shapes; lard the filets, and di- vide the thickest part of each ; preserve the_ right side point, turn over the two divided parts, and give them the shape of .m arrow, or you may make them in P 3C II o ( 162 ) C II I the form of an S. Arrange the ecollops as an obelisk in tlie middle of a dish, and lay the. filets and truffles round it. Chickens (Scollops of) & I’Essence of Cucumbers.—Cut scollops from the fillets of four chickens, put them in a pan with some clarified butter, spi inkle them with salt, and serve them with the fol- lowing sauce :—Pare and slice some green cucumbers, and lay the larger slices, having taken out the seeds (such as are the size of a half-crown), in salt and vinegar, for a little while; then drain them on a clean cloth, and let them stew gently with some sauce tournee, a small bit of sugar, and a little salt; when done, drain them again. In the meantime mince a few cucumbers, and put them ''with the parings into butter, sweat them till melted; mix this with tlie slices, and boil them gently, till all the butter is extracted, then reduce and mix it with some bechitmelle, and strain it through a tammy ; when the scollops are wanted, toss them up over a stove; drain the butter, and add a little cream, and put them into the sauce. Garnish with the cucumbers drained. Chickens (Scollops of) with Truffles.— Cut the fillets of three chickens into scollops, about the size of a crown-piece, and throw them into clarified butter; have ready some truffles, peeled and cut of the same size and form as the scollops; sprinkle them with salt. Reduce the cuttings of the truffles in some consomme, and mix it with veloute. Toss up the scollops and truffles just before serving, add a little thick cream, and serve with the veloute. CHINA Chilo.—Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a let- tuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonsful of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stewpan closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is approved, add a little. Chinese Temple-—Having boiled an ounce of double-refined sugar, with half an ounce of butter, and a little water, set it by till cold, and then add to it an egg well beaten. With this, make four ounces of flour into a very stiff" paste; roll it out as thin as possible, and lay it in a set of tins the form of a temple, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, take the paste from the tins, and join each piece together according to the proper forms, with isinglass and water. The lower part, of course, ought to be stronger than the top, in order that it may sustain the weight of the whole. The pieces also must be cut ns exact as possible to the shape of the tins. CHITTERLINGS.* — Take some hogs’ entrails, cleanse them carefully, and cut them into convenient lengths; put them into water with vinegar, laurel or bay, thyme and basil, for six or eight hours ; then cut one part of these entrails and some pork together, with pork-fat, into dice, seasoning the whole with pep- per, salt, fine spice, and a little aniseed in powder; fill the remainder of the entrails with all these ingredients, but not to tightness, to prevent bursting; tie them with thin twine, and boil them in half water and half milk, with salt, thyme, bay and basil; when they are sufficiently boiled, leave them to cool in their liquor. Broil on a clear fire, and serve them. N.B. Certain celebrated French cooks previously soak them for six hours in white wine; others, _ in melted lard. They are also boiled in stock, together with carrots, parsnips, and a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, laurel, or bay; : pierce them before broiling. Chitterlings.—Take the large gut of a pig; after having well washed it, cut it into pieces of the length you would wish the chitterlings; soak the pieces in a quart of vinegar and water, mixed with thyme, bay-leaves, and basil; then chop some of the pieces quite small, and mix them with some finely minced pork; season the whole with salt, fine spices, and a single aniseed ; then fill the pieces of gut about three parts, as, if quite full, they will burst in cooking : tie the ends, and boil them in milk and water, throw- ing in some salt, thyme, bay-leaves, basil, and a little flare. When done, let them cool in their liquor, and then broil them. Chitterlings, d la Rouen.—Take a calf’s or lamb’s chaudron and some pork flee; cut them into small pieces; season them with a a small quantity of pounded aniseed, salt, and fine spices ; boil tliem in milk and fat broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few sliced onions; leave them to cool in the liquor in which they are boiled. Chitterlings, Veal. — Scald a calf’s chaudron and some udder about fifteen minutes, then cut them into fillets, with a pound of pickled pork; mix these to- gether, and add a few chopped shalots, salt, fine spices, four spoonslul of cream, and four yolks of eggs. Finish as beef cliitterlings. CHOCOLATE.'*—According as you wish to make tliis beverage, either »^th milk or water, put a cup of one or other of these liquids into a chocolate-pot, with( 163 ) CHO CHO one ounce of cjike chocolate. Some per- sons dissolve the chocolate in a little water before they put it into the milk. As soon ns the milk or water begins to boil, mill it. When the chocolate is dis- solved, and begins to bubble, take it off the fire, letting it stand near it for a quarter of an hour; tlien mill it again to make it frothy; afterwards serve it out in cups. The chocolate must not be milled, un- less it is prepared with cream. Chocolate in cakes should always be made use of for ices and dragees. Chocolate.—Simmer the chocolate on a slow fire, in the proportion of two ounces to each cup; stir it about a good deal with a chocolate-mill, and when it is properly dissolved and thickened, add a yolk of an egg beat up, to the propor- tion of four cups, or the whites equally beat up, and the first froth thrown away; mix it first with a little of the chocolate, which add to the rest, and mill it very well to incorporate together; this will make it of a proper consistence, and of a proper froth ; it is best made a day or two before using. If you keep it ready made any time, boil it a moment every other day; sweeten it according to taste.* * The F rench author says—dissolve and boil one tablette, viz., a cake or lozenge, to each cup. It is to be observed, that their chocolate is made into small cakes, which contain about twelve to a pound, and is sweetened in the making, which is commonly called Dutch chocolate in England. . Chocolate {to make either with Milk or fVater).—Divide a pound of choco- late into twelve parts; take as many parts as you wish to make cups of cho- colate ; put into a chocolate-pot an equal number of cups of water ; let your choco- late dissolve; mill it, then put your chocolate-pot on a gentle fire; let it boil slowly, keeping it constantly stirring; immediately before it is served, mill it. To make chocolate with milk, you must divide your pound of chocolate into sixteen parts. Chocolate Almonds.—Take a pound of chocolate finely grated, and a pound and a half of the best sugar, finely sifted; soak some gum-dragon in orange-flower water, and work them into what form you please ; the paste must be stiff; dry them in a stove. You may write devices on paper, roll them up, and put them in the middle. Chocolate Biscuits.*—Whip to snow the whites of six eggs; mix with them as much scraped chocolate as will colour and taste them; add some powder-sugar and some fine fiourj make ^ paste ; shape your biscuits j put tnem in paper, and bake them m a gentle oven. , . Chocolate Biscuits.—Take a quarter of a pound of ehocolate, and put it on a tin over a stove, to make it warm ; then put a pound of powdered sugar in a basin; and when the chocolate is quite warm and soft, put it in with the sugar, and mix it well with about eight whites of eggs ; if you find it too thin, add some more powdered sugar, to bring it to a paste, so that you can roll into lumps the size of walnuts: let your oven be of a moderate heat: put three papers under them; let the oven just raise and make them crisp and firm ; and let them be quite cold before you take them off the paper. Chocolate Biscuits.*—Take a dozen fresh eggs, half a pound of flour, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a pound and a half of powder-sugar; beat these ingredients up welt in a mortar for a quarter of an hour; then lay your bis- cuits on white paper, and bake them. Vanilla and cinnamon biscuits are made in the same way. Chocolate, Blancmange of.* — Dis- solve a quarter of a pound of good choco- late, and the same of sugar, in a glass of boiling water; extract the milk of al- monds in the usual way, and having divided it, mix with one half of the cho- colate, four drachms of isinglass, and with the other, six ounces of sugar dis- solved in a glass of warm water, and four drachms of isinglass. Proceed with the rest of the operation as in Blancmange of Cedrat. Chocolate Bonbons.*—Put a quarter of a pound of chocolate over a fire, to dissolve it; and having boiled two pounds of sugar to fort perle, put a spoonful or two into the chocolate; stir it till it forms a thin paste, and then pour it on the sugar, and boil both together to caramel. In the mean time melt a little butter, skim, and pour it off'clear into a basin; take a spoonful of it, and rub it with your hand over a marble slab or table: on this pour the chocolate and sugar; then take two ends of a sword- blade, (one in each hand),and press lines an inch apart all down it; cross them in like manner, so as to mark the sugar in small squares all over; doing it as quick as possible, lest the sugar should cool before you have done ; then pass the sword-blade between the marble .and the sugar; lay under the latter sheets of paper; and when cold, break it into pieces according to the marks, and wrap each square in paper.( 164) c no c no Chocolate Bouchies de Damex.*— Make your bouchies de dumes as direct- ed, (see that article), but lay them rather more of an oval form ; when bak- ed, take them from the papers. Then put two ounces of very fine sugar, (sifted), and three ounces of grated chocolate, into a pan, with one and a half whites of eggs ; stir it with a silver spoon for eight or ten minutes; and having filled the bouchies with marmalade, mask them with this mixture j as you do them, strew crystallized sugar over, and place them carefully on a baking-plate covered with paper. When all are done, put them in the oven for five or six minutes, and serve them when cold. Chocolate Cannellons. * — Prepare twenty pannequets; mask them lightly with chocolate-cream palissiere', strew over them some crushed macaroons; roll them out: cut them through the middle; dip them in batter, and fry them ; glaze, and serve them quite hot. Chocolate Comfits *——Take two ounces of chocolate, beat it small with a little warm water over the fire ; when it is dissolved and reduced to a paste, pour it upon a pound of massepam or sweet paste, to which add some cinnamon or vanilla at discretion ; rnix the whole well together ; then spread it over some wa- fer shapes, and bake it in a moderate oven. If the paste does not appear deep coloured enough, you may colour it with bolus Armenicum. Chocolate Conserve.*—Dissolve tvvo ounces of good chocolate in a little wa- ter, put it into a skillet with half a pound of sugar boiled to perli ; keep the sugar stirring, and when it boils put the con- serve into moulds. Chocolate Conserve.* — Dissolve a quarter of a pound of grated chocolate in a small quantity of clarified sugar ; boil a pound of sugar to the premiere plume, put your chocolate into it, stir- ring it well to mix it; serve it whilst it is warm. Chocolate Cream.*—Take a pint of milk, a gill of cream, the yolks of three eggs, and five ounces of powder sugar, mix these ingredients together, set them on the fire, stir it constantly, and let it boil till reduced to a (luarter; then add two ounces of grated chocolate; and hav- ing boiled a little longer, strain it, and let it cool. Serve it cold. Chocolate Cream. Scrape two squares of chocolate, and put them in a stewpan, with half a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pint of milk, and halfapint of cream; let it boil till a thinl is con- sumed, and when half cold, beat up the yolks of six eggs with it, and strain the whole through a sieve, and then put the small cups or dish in which the cream is to be served into a pan containing enough boiling water to reach above half-way up the cream; cover tliis pan, and put a little fire on the lid ; when done, and the cream cool, serve. Chocolate Cream.—Scrape into one quart of thick cream one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar; boil and mill it; w'hen quite smooth take it off, and leave it to be cold ; then add the whites of nine eggs, whisk and take up the froth on sieves as others are done; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Chocolate Cream.—Take about half a cake of chocolate, bruise it to pieces, put it in a stewpan with a little milk, and stir it over a gentle tire till it looks smooth and thick; then add a little more milk, and stir it again over the fire ; continue this till it takes the thick- ness of cream; sweeten it to your palate with clarified sugar ; stir in a little thick cream with a very little isinglass, rub it through the tammy, and set it in the mould. Chocolate Cream.—Take a quart of cream, a pint of white wine, and a little juice of lemon; sweeten it well, lay in a sprig of rosemary, grate some choco- late, and mix all together; stir it over the fire till it is thick, and pour it into your cups. Chocolate Creamau Bain Marie*— Break a quarter of a pound of chocolate into small pieces, and dissolve it in a glass of water with a small quantity of vanilla, and half a pound of sugar. When these ingredients are perfectly dissolved, add five glasses of boiling milk; pour this mixture, a little at a time, on the yolks of ten, and one whole egg ; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, add a grain of salt, strain and finish as directed. Cream au Bain Marie. Chocolate Cream d la Franqaise.'— Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water over a gentle fire ; tlien pour into it, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs; add half a pound of sugar, and four glasses of boil- ing milk. Stir it constantly over a moderate fire till the cream thickens; then boil it up once and strain it; when nearly cold, add six drachms of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. See Cream d la Francaise. Chocolate fS'hippcd Cmm.*—Dis- solve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in half a glass ol boiling water over a moderate fire: then let if. coi’l; add to it a quarter of a pound o! powdfC II o C II 0 ( 165 ) sugar, and mix it with whipped cream. See fFhipped Cream. Chocolate CreamPalissiere.*—Grate a quarter of a pound of chocolate, and mix it with two ounces of powder-sugar and a quarter of a pound of sweet maca- roons. Put this mixture into a cream patissiire, prepared as directed in that article- Chocolate Drops. — Take one pound and a half of chocolate, put it on a pew- ter sheet or plate, and put it in the oven just to warm the chocolate; then put it into a copper stewpan, with three quar- ters of a pound of powdered sugar ; mix it well over the fire, take it ofli and roll it in pieces the size of small marbles, put them on white paper, and when they are all on, take the sheet of paper by each corner, and lift it up and down so that the paper may touch the table each time, and by that means you will see the drops come quite fat, about the size of a six- pence ; put some sugar nonpareils over them, and cover all that are on the paper, then shake them off, and you will see all the chocolate drops are covered with the sugar nonpareils; let them stand till cold, and they will come off well, and then put them in a box papered. Chocolate {Floating Island of). Take the whites of two eggs, and mix them up with two ounces of chocolate scraped; pile it on a thin custard or jelly. Chocolate au Fromage.—Whip a pint and a half of rich cream. Melt a quarter of a pound of chocolate that you have previously rasped or pounded; add a little water to it; when melted, mix with it a little isinglass and a little sugar ; then mix that with the whipped cream, fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Do not neglect to whip it over ice till you find the mixture begins to freeze; then put it into the mould, and surround it witli ice. Chocolate Fromage Bavarois of.*— Dissolve a quarter of a pound of the best chocolate in a glass of boiling water, and boil it for five minutes stirring con- stantly; when perfectly dissolved add a glass of good cream, (also boiling), six ounces of powder-sugar, and six drachma of clarified isinglass; when well mixed strain it off into the/^df in ice, stir it with a silver spoon, and as soon as it begins to take, mvs. a. fromage d la Ckuntilly, and finish as usual. Chocolate Frothed or Whipped.* — Put half a pound of chocolate to a glass of water over a small fire, stirring it with a wooden spoon until perfectly dissolved ; then take it off and add six yolks of eggs, a pint of double cream, and three qnar* tersofa pound of powder-sugar, lour the whole into a pan, and when coid, whip it up as directed. See Frothed Cream. , Chocolate Ge/iofse.*—Make the Ge- noise in the usual way, adding to the in- gredients a small quantity of vanilla. VVlien done make a glaze with three ounces of grated chocolate, two ounces of powder-sugar, and half the white of an egg; do them over with this, and put them into the oven for two minutes to dry. Chocolate Ices {Cream).—any quantity of chocolate, melt it over the hre in a small pan ; when melted pour it into that in which you are to make your cream ; break your yolks of eggs into it, (four eggs to every pint of cream) add some pounded loaf sugar to it, keep stir- ring continually; then add your cream by little and little, stirring and turning it till the whole is mixed properly together; then set your pan over the fire, and keep stirring with a wooden- spoon till you see your composition is near boiling, then take it off immedi- ately, for, Irora the moment you set your composition over the fire till that it offers to boil, it has sufficient tirne to in- corporate well and thicken sufficiently, without need of boiling; and should you let it boil, you would risk the turning your cream into whey, on account of the yolks of eggs, which would do too much. Take great care likewise your cream is fresh and sweet, for otherwise as soon as it is warm it will turn to curds and whey; therefore, be careful, stir it con- tinually, from the time you set it on the fire till you take it off; then put it in the sabotiere to make ilcongeal after the usual manner. Chocolate Cream Ices.—Dissolve the chocolate in a little water on a slow fire; when properly done, mix it with a pint of cream, three yolks of new laid eggs, and about half a pound of sugar. Chocolate Ice {Water).—Take three ounces of chocolate, warm it, and mix with it half a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water; mix it well, and freeze it thick. Chocolate Macaroons.*—Put a qiuar- ter of a pound of chocolate on a tin-plate over a coal fire, and when it is dissolved pour it on a plate ; put to it a spoonful or two of sweet almond paste, made as for macaroons, stir it in well, and then pourit upon the remainderof the almond paste, in which you have mixed a tea- spoonful of powdered cinnamon or va- nilla, or both: beat them together well inC II o C II o ( 166 ) a mortar, lay them on paper, and bake them for three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Chocolate Mock.— Take a pint of mi!k, boil it over a slow fire with some whole cinnamon, and sweeten it with Lisbon sugar, beat up the yolks of three eggs, throw all together into a chocolate pot, and mill it one wayoritwill turn. Serve it in chocolate cups. Chocolate Parfait Amour.* — For four bottlesof brandy, take one pound of the best chocolate, cut in small bits ; a little salt, two cloves, and a little cin- namon ; you must infuse all in the brandy, with two bottles and half a pint of water, with whites of eggs, and filter it through the paper. You must be careful not to take more than two bottles from every four, except from the cinnamon, from which you are to take as much as you can get. Chocolate Pastils.—Take a little chocolate, which put in a pan over the fire to melt it; stir it with a spoon; when it is melted, take half a pound of loaf sugar, pounded in a mortar and sift- ed, which dissolve in a little clear water. When_ that is done, put in your choco- late ; if you find the paste too thick, add a little water, enough to bring it to that degree of liquidity that you may take it up on a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with tittle round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a sixpence ; let them dry naturally in a cupboard; and when dry, take them off' from the paper, and put them in boxes. Chocolate Pastil Paste.—Melt half an ounce of gum-dragon in a little water till it is quite dissolved and thick; sift it through a linen cloth, pound it in amor- tar with a quarter-part of whites of eggs, a chocolate cake bruised, and_ half a pound of fine powder-sugar, mixed by degrees, and adding either more or less sugar,_ according as the paste is malle- able ; it must be pretty firm ; form it into what flowers or designs you please, as shells, lozenges, any kind of corn or beans, &c. Chocolate Petits Gdteaux Royaux.* — Grate three ounces of vanilla choco- latCj and mix it with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, diluted with a little white of egg; prepare and fiinish vour cakes as directed. See Almonds Petits Ga- teaux Royaux. These cakes may be flavoured with cedrat, lemon, Seville or sweet orange, by grating the rind of either of these fruits on sugar, which must be crushed and well dried before it is used. Chocolate Petits Paws.*—These are made in the same way as Petits Pains H la Duchesse (see that article), but with- out the dvrure. When cold fill them with a cream paffssfere, mixed with two ounces of vanilla chocolate, and sweetened with sugar, flavoured with vanilla; then put three ounces of sifted sugar, the same of chocolate, and half the white of an egg into a pan ; stir these ingredients with a silver spoon until you have a smooth transparent glaze, with which mask the top and sides of the petits jtains, spreading it equally with the blade of a knife. Chocolate Projitrolles.*—Mixaquar- ter of a pound of grated chocolate in a glass of cre.&m patissiire', spread half of this carefully on a silver dish, and put it in the oven for half an hour, that it may burn to the dish; then mix in a pan two ounces of grated chocolate, the same of powder-sugar, and a sufficient quan- tity of white of egg to make a smooth glaze, with which glaze eight choux, rather larger than common; dry them a minute or two in the oven, and fill them with the remainder of the cream ; then take the largest, and place it in the centre of the dish of cream, and arrange the remaining seven round it, as close as you well can ; put it in the oven again for a quarter of an hour, and then serve. Chocolate Puffs.—Take half a pound of chocolate grated, and a pound of double refined sugar, beat fine and sifted; with the whites of two eggs make a paste, and have ready some more sugar _ to strew on the tins; turn the rough side upwards, and bake them in a slow oven ; you may form the paste into any shape, and colour it with different colours. Chocolate Puffs.—Beat and sift h.alf a pound of double-refined sugar, scrape into it an ounce of chocolate very fine, and mix them together. Beal the white of an egg to a high froth, and strew in the sugar and chocolate. Keep beating it till as stiff as a paste. Then sugar the paper, drop them on, the size of a six- pence, and bake them in a slow oven. Chocolate Souffle.—Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, which cut as srnall as you c:m, and melt it on the fire in a little water. When it is entirely melted, throw it into the souffle preparation. Chocolate Pelil Souffle of.*—Having grated a quarter of a pound of chocolate, put it on a sheet of paper, and lay it at the opening of the oven for five minutes; in the meanwhile dilute six ounces of sifted sugar with the white of an egg; then add to it the chocolate; when the mixture is very firm add a little more white of egg. .and conclude your operation in the usual way. (See Petit Souffles.)C II o C H O ( 167 ) Chocolate Sweetmeats.*—Tiike two ounces of chocolate, and break it into a little warm water, put it on the fire, ami when quite dissolved, mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, to which may be added vanilla or cinnamon; stir it up well, and then spread it on wafer-paper in wliat forms you please, and bake tliem in a moderate oven. If the sweetmeats he not sufficiently dark coloured, add a little bol-ammoniac. Chocolate Tari.—Put two spoonsful of fine flour in aste.wpan, with the yolks of six eggs, reserve their whites, mix these with some milk, add a quarter of a pound of rasped chocolate, with a stick of cinnamon, some sugar, a little salt, and some rasped green lemon-peel; let them be a little time over the fire, after which put in a little preserved lemon-peel cut small, and having tasted whether it has a fine flavour, let it cool; when cold, mix this with the reserved whites of eggs beat up to a froth, ivhen you use it. put it into pattypans, and put either^juff or tart paste over them ; ice, and bake them in a moderate oven. Chocolate Tart. Mix a little flour and cream, with a proportionable quan- tity of chocolate, a bit of sugar, and three, eggs ; boil it about half an hour, stirring continually for fear it should catch at bottom ; put it into the paste, and whites of eggs beat and frothed upon it; glaze it with sugar. Chocolate JVine.—Take a pint of sherry, or a pint and a half of port, four ounces and a half of chocolate, six ounces of fine sugar, and halt an ounce of white starch, or fine flour; mix, dissolve, and boil all these together for about ten or twelve minutes. But if your chocolate is made with sugar, take double the quan- tity of chocolate, and half the quantity of sugar. CHOUDER. — Lay some slices c\it from the fat part of a belly-piece of pork, in a deep stewpan, mix sliced onions with a variety of sweet herbs, and lay them on the pork. Bone and cut a fresh cod into thin slices, and place them on the pork ; then put a. layer of pork, on that a layer of biscuit, then alternately the other materials until the pan is nearly full, season with pepper and salt, put in .about a pint and a half of water, lay a paste over the whole, cover the stewpan very close, and let it stand, with fire above as well as below, for four hours; then skim it well, and put it in a dish, pour a glass of Madeira made hot over it, also some .Jamaica pepper, stewed mushrooms, truffles, and oysters ; brown the paste slightly, and lay it over the whole. CHOUX.*—Put a pint of water into a stewpan, with half a pound of fresh but- ter, the rinds of tivo lemons grated, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a very little salt; as soon as the water begins to boil, add as much flour as the liquor will imbibe; when the paste becomes very thick, keep stirring with a spoon until quite done, then let it cool. After that, break into it a sufficient number of eggs to make the paste soft; taking care that it be firm enough to allow you to work it up with the hand ; when it may be formed according to fancy. This paste may be glazed and garnished either with almonds or pistachio nuts; when baking the chonx, be careful to keep the oven tightly closed. Ibid.—Put into a large stewpan a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, half a pint of water, two ounces of sugar, the peel of a lemon, and a little salt; when the butter is quite melted, take out the lemon-peel, and add, .a little at a time, some very dry sifted flour. Stir these well over the fire, until a paste is formed that may be e.asily removed from the sides of the pan. Then take it from the fire, and break in half a dozen eggs, one by one ; taking particular care that all are perfectly fresh and sweet; when the eggs are well mixed in, form your paste into little balls the size of a marble, and place them on a baking sheet, about an inch apart, as they increase a good deal in size ; wash each over with dorure Previously mixed with a little milk, and ake them in a moderately heated oven; when done, take them from the baking sheet with a knife; make a small opening at the side, and put in any kind of sweet- meat you may think proper, and dish them en buisson. Another way.—Put a quarter of a pound of butter, with rather more than half a pint of milk, a little sugar, and lemon-peel, into a stewpan, and set it on the fire ; as soon as it boils, add to it a quarter of a pound of flour, and with a wooden spoon stir it for about tivo minutes after the paste is formed ; break into this four eggs, one by one, then add a little salt and some pounded ratafia bis- cuits; beat it up a minute or two, and then drop it on a baking-sheet, and bake them in a moderate oven. These are also cut open, and sweetmeats inserted; be careful to keep the oven close. Choux d la d’Arloise.—Proceed as above, but instead of four, put in the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs; then add the pounded ratafia, some orange flower.'!, and a gill of warm cream. When all these ingredients are well mixed together, drop them in lengths about the size of a finger ; egg, and hake them ; bclorc they are entirely done.C I N C II u ( 1G8 ) sift a little sugar over, and when quite done, glaze them with a salamander. Serve them hot. Choux en Biscuits.—Also called Ga- teau A LA d'Artoise. and are made like petits Choux d la d’Arloise. Choux d la Mecque.*—Put two glasses of milk, and two onnces of fresh butter into a Rtewpau, making them into a paste, with a proper quantity of flour; having dried it a few minutes, add two more ounces of lnutter, and half a glass of milk, and dry it again a little. Take it from the stewpan, and stir into it two eggs and two ounces of powder-sugar ; when well mixed together, add two more eggs, a spoonful of whipped cream, and a grain of salt; lay the choux with a spoon about three inches long ; dorez and mask them with sugar. Bake them in a moderate oven. These choux may be flavoured accord- ing to taste, with orange, lemon, cedrat, &c., by grating either of these fruits on the. sugar employed in making them. Choux {Petits) Meringiccs.—Having made and baked a sufficient number of petits choux pralinees, but without al- monds ; cut off the tops, and Mur into them some Italienne cream. Beat the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, adding to them as much powder- sugar as will render them very smooth ; and drop it on the petits choux; strew sugar over this, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. These must be served hot. Choux (Petits) Pralinees.—Chop some Jordan almonds extremely small, and mix them with a small quantity of pound- ed sugar; sprinkle these ingredients over petits choux, which must be drop- ped so as to make them double the usual size. Garnish these as above. Choux d la Reine.—Are made the same way as d la d’Artoise, only drop them on the baking-plate of a round, in- stead of a long form : neither are they glazed. Choux (PefiVi) Basket of, d la Cha?i- till!/.—RoU out some very small choux wiiii a little flour, and bake, but do not glaze them. Boil some clarified sugar to the degree casse ; then, with a small pointed stick, take up thecAo?<a^, and dip them, one at a time, in the sugar, and as yon do this, place them round a but- tered mould, of the form of a basket, or whatever otlier form you may think proper '. butter a hoop of the same size .ns the top of your basket, stick together a single row oichoux, halfway round it, and then fasten it to each side of the basket; fill it with wdth chantilli cream, and serve t. CHUB (Porta/).—Put as much beer- vinegar and water into a fish-kettle as will cover the fish; a good quantity of salt, and some fennel. Scide and cleanse a chub, and when the water boils put in the fish. When it is sufficiently boiled, lay it on a board to drain, let it lie for an hour, put it into a pewter-dish over a chafing-dish of coals, with melted butter, and serve it very hot. Chub (Broiled).—Scald a chub, cutoff the tail and fins, wash it well, and slit it down the middle, make two or three cuts on the back with a knife, and broil it on a wood fire. Baste it all the time it is broiling with fresh butter and salt, and thyme shred small. Chub (Roasted).—Scale andthoroughly I cleanse a chub ; wash it, and stuff it with sweet herbs, then tie it to the spit with splinters, roast it, keep hasting it with vinegar and butter, well seasoned with salt. CIDER.—See Cyder. CINNAMON Almonds.—Zee Almonds. Ci.vNAMO.v Cakes.—Whisk up hall a dozen eggs with three table-spoons- ful of rose-water; add to it a pound of sifted sugar, a dessert-spoonful of pow- dered cinnamon, and a sufficient quan- tity of flour to make it into a paste ; roll it out thin, and cut it into whatever forms your fancy may dictate, idace them oii paper, and bake them. When done, remove them from the paper. Keep them dry. Cinnamon (Camlied). — Soak cinna- mon in water for four and twenty hours, , and then cut it into pieces about an inch long; prepare some sugar to grand lisse, . and give tue cinnamon a boil in it; drain i and dry it in a stove _ to the proper : consistence; then put it in the moulds ^ with sugar boiled to souffle, and when half cold, dry it. Before the candy is re- ; moved from the moulds, they should i be laid on one side for some time. Keep • them in paper in a dry place. CiNNAJioN, Candied.—Cut some cin- • namon into small sticks of about an inch : or an inch and a half long; then put : them into thin sugar, and boil them as ‘ it were in a syrup. Then take off the pan, and set it by for five or six hours to soak, take them out and lay them on a wire-grate, dry them thoroughly in the stove; afterwards put them in order in tin moulds upon little grates made for the purpose, and set into the moulds, so | that there may be three rows set one > above another, separated by those grates. i In the meantime, lx)il sugar till it is < blown, and pour it into your mould, so that some of it may lie upon the upper- most grate ; then set them in the ^tove with a covered fire, and let them standC I N 169 ) C I N nil night; the next morning take notice whether the cinnamon be well coagu- lated; turn the mould upside down, and set it in the stove again, with a plate underneath ; and when it is tliorouglily drained, take out your sticks of cinna- mon, loosening them, by little and little, gently; then lay them upon a sieve, set in the stove, and dry them tliorouglily. Cinnamon, Conserve o/.*—Bruise four drachms of cinnamon, dilute it with a little clarified sugar, or syrup of mallows; boil two pounds of sugar to petit casse, throw in the cinnamon, stir it well, and then take it from the fire, and when the sugar begins to wliiten, pour the conserve into cases or moulds, and dry it as usual. Cinnamon (Dragees or Sugared)*— Soak a quarter of a pound of the best cinnamon in sticks, for twelve hours in water to soften it; at the end of that tinie, cut it into slips, lay’ them on a sieve in a warm place for some days. When quite hard and dry, boil some fine sugar to the degree grand perle ; have ready a quan- tity of fine powder, and proceed in the same manner as in Almond Dru- gies, until the cinnamon sticks are of the proper thickness : those which are to be twisted or curled, should not be so thick as the others. Be equally parti- cular in removing the sugar, that cakes on the bottom of the pan, as in making Almond Dragees. Cinnamon Dragees (Common).*—In- fuse a quarter of a pound of gum-dragon, in as much water as will cover it; the next day put the infusion into a mortar, and stir it well with a pestle, and the longer it is stirred the whiter it becomes; in rathe? more than a quarter of an hour, add to i‘. the caked sugar which was re- moved from the preserving-pan, and which must be well pounded and sifted, also a pound of powder-sugar, a spoonful of cinnamon powder, and by degrees two or three pounds of flour; moisten the whole occasionally with water; when the paste is of a proper consistence, place it on the slab or pasteboard, knead it well for a short time, roll it out in sheets, not thicker than the eighth of an inch, and then cut it into slips of the same size as the cinnamon (see above), put them on paper or a sieve in a warm place forsomedays. Then boil somecommon sugar to perle., and sugar the slips of paste as above directed ; instead of the fine powder, flour is sullicient, until the last two layers, when the powder may be used to give them whiteness. When of the requisite size, lay them on sieves to dry. In a few days they may be curled, and coloured, whicli is done in the same manner as coriander seeds. Observe, fine sugared cinnamon is al- ways white. Cinnamon (Essenceof).—This is made by infusing oil of cinnamon in highly rectified spirits of wine, in the propor- tion of half a drachm of the former to an ounce of the latter. Cinnamon, Put two ounces of fine cinnamon, the rinds of two lemons, and an ounce of stick-liquorice, beaten, into two quarts of the best brandy, and a pint of water, cover it close, and when it has stood for some days, distil it. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a quart of water, add to it your liqueur, and strain it. Cinnamon lee.—Infuse some cinna- mon in hot water for an hour, and give it a boil; add to the infusion a pint of wa- ter and half a pound of sugar; stir them well together, and then put it into the sabotiere, and surround it with ice and salt; stir it with a flat pewter spoon, till it begins to freeze, then put the mixture into your mould, and keep it in ice till ready to serve. Cinnamon, Parfait Amour.—For four bottles of brandy, you must take four ounces of cinnamon of the best quality, thirty cloves, thirteen coriander-seeds, a little salt, mixed together in brandy, let it infuse for eighteen hours ; you are to take from thestillas much as you can; two pounds of sugar clarified in two bot- tles and a half of water, with the whites of two or three eggs well beaten together, mixed with the spirit, and filtered through blotting-paper; after you have mixed the spirit, take care to cork your bottles vvell. Cinnamon Dissolve half an ounce of gum-dragon in a glass of water, and strain it through a lawn sieve into a mortar, and add to it a tea-spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a sufficient quantity of sifted sugar to make the paste of a proper consistence ; form into such figures as you may fancy, and dry them in a stove. Keep them in a dry place. Ci.nnamon Pastils.—Put a quarter of an ounce of gum-dragon for every pound you use, into a pan, to be dissolved in a little water; when it has stood for two or three days, stir it with a spoon and strain it; put it into a mortar with the whites of a couple of eggs, and some finely sifted cinnamon-powder; sift powdered sugar into it by little, and little, temper all till the paste becomes pliable. Make your pastils in what shapes yon please, and dry them in a stove. Cinnamon Sweetmeats.*—Take a pound ot marchpane paste, and dilute it with as many whites of eggs as will make it spread easily with a knife ; add to tlii.s, aC I T C I N ( 170 spoonful or two of prepared bole-ammo- niac, which will give it a fine red tinge, and half an ounce of cinnamon-powder. When all these ingredients are well ini.\ed, cut some wafer-paper into such forms as you may think proper, and lay on them the paste about the thickness of the eighth of an inch; place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, they maybe finished in the following manner;—Boil some sugar in orange-flower water, to la plume, and as you take the sweetmeats from the oven ; dip a hair-pencil intothe syrup, and brush them over ; this dries almost immediately, and considerably improves the look of them. Cinnamon (Syrup of).* — Put five ounces of good cinnamon into a pre- viously-heated glass cucurbite, or any delft or earthenware vessel, capable of resisting fire, pour into it two pounds, or a quart of nearly boiling water, close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot asbes_ for twelve hours; at the end of that time draw oil' the infusion without e.xpressing the cinnamon ; add to it two pounds of sugar, coarsely pounded, boil the whole to grand perle, then take it from the fire, and when about half cold, the flavour may be improved by the ad- dition of a few drops of spudt of cinna- mon. Cinnamon Tinelure. — Bruise three ounces of fine cinnamon, and pour on it a quart of the best brandy. Cinnamon JVafers,*—Pound and sift six ounces of sugar, and put it with an equal quantity of melted fresh butter, the same of flour, half an ounce of pow- dered cinnamon, and a small egg; stir these up in an earthenware vessel, with a sufficient quantity of milk to make it into a thin, but not too clear, paste. Make an iron plate quite hot, rub it well with butter, then lay on it a spoonful of the paste; fry it, and when brown on both aides, roll it, still over the hot iron, round a small stick; do this until all the paste is used. Cinnamon fVater.—Bruise twoponnds of good cinnamon, and steep it, with half a pound of citron and orange-peel, and a quarter of an ounce of coriander seeds, in three gallons of Malaga sack, for two days, then distil it. Dissolve sugar in rose-water; put it to the cinnamon- water, and bottle it. ^ CiNNAMONUM.*—Take a quarter of a pound of cinnamon, two drachms of mace, and one ounce of stick-liquorice ; bruise the.m well, and then put them into three quarts of the best brandy ; let the infusion stand for some days before you distil it; dissolve four pounds of sugar in three pints and a half of water; mi.x this syrup with the liqueur, and then strain them. This is sometimes called Oil of Cinnamon. CITRON (Candied).—Piire thecitrons very thin and narrow, and throw tliem into water: these are called faggots; then cut tlie citron into slices of any thickness you think proper; take out the inner part with great care, so as to leave only the white ring, and put them with the faggots into boiling water; when tender, drain them. Boil a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar to souffle; then put in the rings, and boil them to- gether. Take it from the fire, and when a little cool, rub the sugar against the side of the preserving-pan with the back of a spoon ; as soon as it becomes white, take out the rings with a fork very care- fully, one by one, and lay them on a wire- grate to drain : boil and proceed with the faggots in a similar way; when taken out, cut them into proper lengths with a pair of scissors, and lay them also on the wire to drain. Citron Cheesecakes.—Boil a pint of cream, and when cold, mix with it two eggs well beaten ; then boil them to- gether until they become a curd. Beat a few blanched almonds in a mortar, with a little orange-flower water; put them to the curd, and add some Naples bis- cuits and green citron, chopped very small. Sweeten, and bake in tins. Citron Cream.—Boil a pint of cream with half an ounce of isinglass, a little cinnamon and'lemon-peel,_ and a hay- leaf; when the isinglass is dissolved, strain the cream into a deep dish ; cut citron into thin slices, and put them in when the cream is nearly cold ; take care the citron does not fall to the bottom, though the cream should cover it. Serve it quite cold. Citron, H/oc^.—Cut them long ways into quarters; scrape out the seeds and inside ; preserve and candy them. Care must be taken of all fruit kept in syrup; if there is any froth on them, they must be boiled up, and if they are very frothy and sour, the syrup must be first boiled, and then put in the fruit, and boil all together. Citron Paste.—Cut off the ends of the citrons, take out the middle, with all the seeds ; boil them in some water; and when quite tender, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water a moment; then, having pressed them in a cloth to get the water out, pound and sift them. To every quarter of a pound of this marmalade put half a pound of clarified sugar; simmer them together, Stirling constantly until well mixed;CIT (171) CLA then put them into moulds, and place them in a stove to dry. Citron {/yfiite) Preserved. — Lay some white citrons, cut into pieces, in salt and water for four or five hours; then, having waslied tliem in cold water, boil tliem ; when tender, drain, and lay them into as much clarified sugar as will cover them. The next day drain off the syrup, and boil it; when quite smooth and cold, pour it on the citrons; let them stand twenty-four hours ; then boil the syrup again, and put in the citrons. The tliird day, boil both to- gether, and put them into moulds to candy. Citron Preserved Liquid.* — Cut a slit in the sides of some small citrons, so that the inside may take the sugar as well as the outside, and put them over the fire in some water ; whenever they are near boiling, put cold-water to them. As soon as the citrons rise to the top, take them out, and throw them into cold water. They must then be put on the fire again, in the same water, and boiled gently until tender; then take them out, and put them in cold water. After this, boil them seven or eight times in clari- fied sugar; pour the whole into an earthen pan, and let it stand. _ The next day drain the fruit, and boil up the syrup twenty or thirty times; add a little more sugar, and pour it over the citrons ; do this for three successive days, in- creasing the degree to which you boil the sugar daily, so that at the last boil- ing the degree may be au perM. The fruit may then be put into pots. To preserve them dry, they must be done exactly the same; only, instead of putting the fruit into pots, they should be dried on sieves in a stove. With the remaining sugar the citrons may be glazed. Citron Pvddhig, — Mix together a pint of cream and the yolks of six eggs; add to this four ounces of tine sugar, the same of citron, shred fine, two spoonsful of flour, and a little nutmeg ; place this mixture in a deep dish, bake it in a hot oven, and turn it out. Citron Pitddings.—The. yolks of three eggs beaten, half a pint of cream, one spoonful of flour, two ounces of citron cut thin; sugar to the taste; put tliis into large cups buttered ; bake them in a tolerably quick oven; when done, turn them out of the cups, and serve. Citron Ratafia.*—Pare seven or eight citrons very thin j cut the peel into small pieces, and put them into a jar, with three pints of brandy, and let them infuse for three weeks; then add to this I a pound of sugar, boiled in half a pint of water, and well skimmed; let it stand twelve or fifteen days longer, when it may be bottled. Citron (■S'i/nqo o/).—Put into a china bowl alternate layers of fine powder- sugar, and citron, pared, and cut in very thin .slices, and let them stand till the next day ; then strain off the syrup, and clarify it over a gentle fire. Citron (Si/rup of).*—Put the rinds of three citrons into an earthen vessel, and strain on them the juice ; to this put a little water; pour the mixture into a basin in which is four pounds of clarified sugar, boiled to fort boulet. Place this basin in a large saucepan, half filled with water, over the fire; stir the con- tents of the basin frequently; and when the sugar is entirely dissolved, and the syrup quite clear, take the saucepan from-the fire, and let it cool. As soon as it is cold it may be bottled. Citron Water. — Bruise eighteen ounces of good citron-peel, nine ounces of orange-peel, a quarter of a pound of nutmegs ; put them into three gal- lons of proof spirits, and distil it; then add two pounds of double refined sugar, and bottle it. Another Way.—Steep the rind, cut thin, of a dozen citrons, and half an ounce of bruised cardamom-seed; in good brandy (about a quart); stop it close, and let it stand some days ; then boil a pound and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, until it becomes a syrup ; skim it well, and when cold, add it, with the juice of three lemons, to the infusion ; run it through a jelly-bag several times, and when perfectly clear it may be bottled. CITRONNELLE Ratafia.*—For two quarts of the best brandy, take the zestes or rinds of a dozen fine sound lemons, two drachms of bruised cinna- mon, an ounce of coriander, and two pounds of sugar, dissolved in a pint and a half of water; infuse the whole for a month, then strain and bottle it. CLARET {Artificial).— Distil in a cold still, one part of clary water, half a part of redstreak cider; and put them, with six pounds of Malaga raisins, beaten in a mortar, and one pound of the fat mother of claret, in a close vessel, to fer- ment;- when it has stood a fortnight, draw it- off, and for every gallon put half a pint of mulberry, blackberry, or gooseberry juice, and a pint of spirit of clary ; to the whole put three spoonsful do'ir, the whites of two eggs, a drachm of isinglass, and two pounds of syrup of clary j mix the whole well together, tind let it sand j when quite clear, bot- tle it. Q 2( 172 ) CLO CLA Clary Fritters.—Beat up three egpps wiUi a spoonful and a Imlf of cream, then add a little ratafia, three spoonsful of flour, nutmeg and sugar to the taste. Wash and dry thoroughly some clary leaves, dip them in the batter, and fry them. Garnish with Seville orange, and serve with melted butter. Clauy Pancakes.—Make a batter with three eggs, three spoonsfuls of flour, a pint of milic, and a little salt. Pour this batter in a thin layer on boiling lard; and on that a few well washed and dried clary leaves, over which pour some more batter, and fry them. CcAnv {Spirit of).—Take a quart of tlie juice of clary, clary flowers, clove- gilly-flowers, archangel-flowers, flowers of lilly of the valley, andcomfrey flowers, of each two pounds; put these into two gallons of sack, and let them steep all night; then distil it in a glass still, with a very gentle fire ; let the still be very well pasted to keep in the spirits ; put sifted sugar-candy into the bottle you draw it in, and let it drop through a bag of ambergris. Clary f-Vater.—Put two quarts of fresh clary-flowers with a quart of bur- rage water, into an earthen jar, which place in a large vessel of water over the fire ; when it has stood an hour take out the flowers, and put in the same quan- tity of fresh flowers ; in another hour take these out, and throw in fresh, and so on for seven hours ; then add a gal- lon of fresh flowers, two quarts of sack, and sweeten it with two pounds of white sugar-candy pounded, distil it, and if necessary add more sugar-candy. Clary fVine. — Boil six gallons of water, a dozen pounds of sugar, the juice of six lemons, and four well beaten whites of eggs, for half an hour, skimming it carefully; then pour this whilst boiling hot on a peck of fresh clary-flowers, with the peels of the lemons used above, and stir it well; add a very thin and dry toast, covered with yeast. When it has work- ed two or three days add to it six ounces of syrup of lemons, and a quart of Rhen- ish wine. Squeeze the clary through a cloth, strain the liquor through a flannel bag in a cask, lay the bung on loosely, and if in the course of a few days it does not work, bung it quite dose. The wine may be bottled in three months. Another way.—To fifteen gallons of water, put forty-five pounds of sugar, and having boiled and skimmed it, put a small quantity of it to a quarter of a pint of yeast, add a little more by de- grees, and let it stand an hour. Then put both together, and pour it on twelve quarts of clary-flowers, and let it work; as soon as it has done, bung it up (or four months. Draw it oft', and add a gallon of brandy; stop it close for six or seven weeks, and then bottle it. CLOVE (Essence of). — Infuse a drachm of oil of cloves in two ounces of the strongest spirits of wine, apothecary’s measure. Cloves (Oil o/).*—This is made in the same manner as cinnamonum ; the quan- tities are, an ounce of cloves to three quarts of brandy, and four pounds of sugar dissolved in four pints of water. Clove Pastils.—Are made like those of cinnamon. The proportions are six cloves to half an ounce of gum-dragon. Cloves (Uantzic liatajia).*— 'I'ake three quarters of an ounce of cloves, and the same of cinnamon, broken in small pieces, and put them into half a pint of water; let them infuse for twenty-four hours. The next day clarify two pounds of double refined sugar in a bottle of water ; boil it to sovffle, and then add to it four bottles of the best red Bordeaux; strain into this the infusion of cloves and cinnamon, lie the spices in a little bag, and put them in also; cover the pan, and boil up the whole half a dozen times; then take it from the fire, pour it into an earthen vessel, and cover it. When quite cold, take out the hag and squeeze it. Then take a bottle of rectified spirits of wine in one hand, and a spoon in the other; pour the former into the liquor, stirring constantly; taste it frequently, and when sufficiently strong of the spirit, cease pouring. It may be bottled im- mediately, cork it tight, tie the corks down and seal them. The longer this liqueur is kept, the better it w'lll be. Cloves (Syrup o/).—Put a quarter of a pound of cloves, and a quart of boiling w’ater into a stewpan, cover it close, and boil them gently for half an hour; drain the cloves, and to a pint of the liquor put two pounds of sugar; beat up two eggs in a little cold water, add them to the I above, and simmer the whole till it be- i comes a strong syrup. When cold, bottle 1 it. Cloves (Tincture o/).—Steep three I ounces, apothecary’s weight, ol bruised I cloves in a quart of brandy for ten da\-s, and then strain it through a flannel bag. i Clove !Voter.*—Bruise an ounce of cloves, and put them into a quart of brandy, and distil it. Dis.solve a pound and a lialf of sugar in a pint oi clear water, tind add it to the distilled mixture, stir them well together, filter, and bottle it. CiA)VE /F«frr.—Mix 8 little cinnamon with the doves, or the scent will he too strong; allow half a score of cloves.to aC 0 C f 173 ) COG quart of water ; put in a good piece of sugar; let tliem infuse some time over hot embers, or in a warm place; then strain it for use. Clove Gilly Flowers (Syrup of).— Gather tlie flowers early in the morning, pick them clean, and cut the white from the red; to a quart of flowers nut two quarts of spring water, let it stand for two days in a cold place, and after boiling it till it comes to a quart, strain it olij and put in half a pound of double refined sugar, and boil it up again for three or four minutes; pour it into a china basin, let it stand to cool, and when it is quite cold, skim it; put it into bottles, cork them well, and tie them down with leather. COCHINEAL Prepared.*—Pound an ounce of cochineal to a very fine powder, pound also an ounce of cream of tartar, and two drachms of alum ; put these in- gredients into a saucepan with half a pint of water; when it boils take it from the fire, and let it cool; pour it off into a bottle, as free from sediment as possible, and set it by for use. Cochineal, io preserve. — Boil an ounce of cochineal beaten to a fine pow- der, in three quarters of a pint of water, Until reduced to half; then add to it rock alum and cream of tartar, of each half an ounce, pounded fine. Boil all together a short time, and strain it. If to be kept any time, an ounce of loaf sugar should be boiled with if. COCKLES.*—This fish should be pro- cured a day or two before they are want- ed, that they may be cleaned as much as possible from the grits; they are cleansed as follows: put the cockles into a tub with plenty of water, and stir them up two or three times a day with a birch- broom ; change the water each day; and when properly cleaned, put them into a saucepan with hot v/ater, and boil them. As soon as the shells open, they are done, they should be served very not. Cockle Catsup.— Wqsh the quantity of cockles you may require in their own liquor, and having pounded them, to every pint of the jiaste, put an equal quantity of sherry ; boil them, and put to them an ounce of salt, the same ef cayenne, and two drachms of pounded mace. Boil it a second time, skim, and i rub it through a sieve. When quite cold, ' bottle it. Keep it tightly corked. Cockle Catsup. — Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor; when the liquor settles, add a little water, if you have not enough; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlick—if for white, omit these, and put a glass of sherry, lemon- juice and peel, mace, nutmeg, <ind white pepper. If for brown, burn a bit of sugar for colouring. Cockles Pickled.—Boil two quarts of cockles in their own liquor for half an hour, skimming them well; then take out the cockles, strain the liquor through a cloth; take a pint of it, and add to it three quarters of an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of cloves, boil these to- gether once, and then put it to the cockles and remaining liquor, and stir it well, add to this a spoonful of salt, three quarters of a pint of white wine vinegar, and a quarter of an ounce of whole pep- per, and let it stand. When cold, put the cockles in small barrels or jars, as close as they will lay; pour in on them as much liquor as you possibly can, and as it soaks in put in more. Cover them very close. They may be soon eaten. Cockle Sauce.—Scald the cockles in their own liquor, and when the liquor settles, add a little water if necessary; strain, and season with all sorts of spices; and for brown sauce put in a little port wine, garlic, and an anchovy; but if the sauce is to be. white, then, instead of these latter ingredients, use sherry, lemon-juice, mace, nutmeg, white pep- per, and lemon-peel. Cockle sauce is also made in the same way as oyster sauce. COCOA Nut Sweet?neat.*—Cut the nut out of the shell, pare it carefully, and throw it into cold water ; then grate it, and boil it in clarified sugar, (a pound to each pound of the cocoa nut) until quite thick; stir it frequently to prevent its burning. Then pour it on a well but- tered dish or marble slab, and cut it into whatever forms you think proper. Atiothertvay.*—Proceed as above, but do not boil the sugar so thick by a great deal; then stir into it whilst hot the yolks of six eggs; this must be served in jelly glasses. COCOTTES.* — Take a number of small cups, and put in each a small piece of butter, break a new laid egg into every cup; season them with pepper and salt; set them over hot ashes, and pass a salamander over the top. COCK’S-COMBS and Kidneys in aspic mould in a ves- sel full of pounded ice ; pour into this mould some aspic, (about an inch thick), and ornament it according to your fancy, "'dh truffles, the whites of hard eggs, gherkins, cray-fish tails, and cocks’ kid- nies; when that is done, pour in a little more aspic, taking care not to derange the ornaments; as soon as it is set, till up your mould with the cock’s-combs andc o c kidiites, leaving a small space at the top, which fill up witli the aspic. When w.snted for table, dip the mould into warm water an instant, and tlien turn it out; through a reed, blow away whatever pieces of the jelly may remain about the dish, dry it, and serve with the sauce of a chicken lricass6e reduced to a jelly, and thickened with the yolks of four eggs ; strain it, and add a dozen cham- pignons, trimmed and done up in butter and lemon-juice. Small moulds may be used instead of this large one. Cock’s-combs Farced.—Make a force- meat as follows :—chop up some, beef mar- row, bacon, and the white parts of a fowl, and pound them in a mortar with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. Then, having parboiled the cock’s-combs, open them at the largest end, and fill them with the forcemeat. Stew them gently for half an hour in rich gravy, to which add the yolk of an egg well beaten in gravy, some salt, and fresh or pickled mushrooms, or both, if you think proper, Cock’s-cojibs, to Fm'ce.—Parboil some cock’s-combs, then open them with the point of a small knife at the great end; take the white of a fowl, as much bacon and beef marrowj cut these small, and beat them fine m a marble mortar: season them with salt, pepper, andgrated nutmeg, and mix it with an egg ; fill the cock’s-combs, and sterv them in a little strong gravy gently for half an hour; then slice in some fresh mushrooms and a few pickled ones; then beat up the yolk of an egg in a little gravy, stirring it; season with salt. When they are done enough, dish them in little dishes or plates. Cock’s-combs (Fncassee o/).—-Put a slice of ham into a stewpan, with mush- rooms, sweet herbs, cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, and butter; when they have soaked together a short time, add a little flour and some broth, and then strain it. In the meantime, scald the cock’s-combs, and boil them in broth, with a few slices of lemon; put them into the above sauce, and thicken it with cream and yolks of eggs; flavour it with pepper, salt .and lemon-juice, and serve it with any sauce you please. Garnish your dish with force-meat balls, hard eggs, or small onions. Coce’s-combs Pickled. — Scald the cock’s-combs, take off the skins, and stew them for half an hour in white wine vinegar, with cloves,mace,allspice,whole pepper, bay-leaves and bay-salt; then put them in a jar, and when cold cover them with mutton-suet, and tie them tight over. When they are wanted take ( 174 ) COD them out of the pickle, and lay them :n i warm water for an hour. \ Cock’s-combs, to preserve.—Let tbein | be well cleaned, then put them into a pot j with some melted bacon, and boil them a little ; about half an hour after, add a i little bay-salt, some pepper, a little vine- . gar, a lemon sliced, and an onion stuck with cloves. When the bacon begins to I stick to the pot, take them up, put them | into the pan you would keep in, lay a | clean linen cloth over them, and pour ^ clarified melted butter, over them, to | keep them close from the air. I Cock’s-combs and Kidyiies au bUtne, (Ragmtt of).*— Having blanched the cocks’-comlis and kidnies, put them into a saucepan with a little consomme, sauce tournee, mushrooms, previously dressed veal sweetbreads, fowls’ livers, blanched and sliced, truffles also cut in slices, artichoke bottoms, and quenelles of fowl. Thicken the whole with yolks of eggs. Serve with a sippet and a little lemon or verjuice. Cock’s-combs au Veloute.* — Parboil your cock’s-combs in a blanc, and having drained them, put them into a stewpan with veloute or tournee; let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour, thicken the sauce, and finish with a little butter and lemon-juice. Cock’s-combs U7id Kidnies auVeloule.* —Boil some cock’s-combs and kidnies in i a blanc, and then drain them ; put some i veloute reduced with a little fowl-jelly into a stewpan, throw in the cock’s- combs and kidnies, simmer them for | about seven or eight minutes, and finish ! it with a sippet and lemon-juice, and i serve it. COD.—A cod-fish should be firm .and i white, the gills red, and the eye lively ; j a fine fish is very thick about the neck; i if the flesh is at all flabby it is not good. ' Those which come from the Dogger Bank are reckoned the best. Cod is in its prime during the months of October and November, if the weather be cold ; from the latter end of March to May, cod is also very fine. The length of time : it requires for boiling depends on the size of the fish, which varies from one pound to twenty; a small fish, about two or three pounds weight will be sulliciently boiled in a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes .after the water boils. Prepare a cod for dressing in the following man- ner;—empty and w.ish it thoroughly, scrape oil all the scales, cut open the belly, and wash and dry it well, rub a little salt inside, or lay it for an hour in strong brine. The simple way of dress- ing it is as follows:—Tie up the head, and put it into a fish-kettle, with plentyCOD ( 175 ) COD of water and salt in it; boil it gently, and serve it with oyster sauce._ Lay a napkin under the fish, and garnish with slices of lemon, horse-radish, &c. Cod Baked.*—Soak a fine piece of fresh cod in melted butter, with parsley and sweet herbs shred very fine ; let it stand over the fire for some time, and then bake it. Let it be of a good colour. Another Chum a fine large cod, clean it well, and open the under part to the bone, and put in a stuffing made with beef suet, parsley, sweetherbs shred fine, an egg, and seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, maee and grated lemon-peel; put this inside the cod, sew it up, wrap it in a buttered paper, and bake it; baste it well with melted but- ter. Cod au Court Bhuillmt.* — Boil the cod gently in a fish-kettle, with water, salt, vinegar, a glass of wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Serve it cold on a napkin. Cod en Dauphin-*—Your cod being properly prepared, marinate it for a couple of hours in sweet oil, with salt, pepper, scallions, bay-leaf, parsley, and garlic. Then pass an iron skewer through the eyes, the middle of the body, and bring it out at the tail, making it in the form of a dolphin; place it in a baking pan, baste it with the marinade, and bake it. When sufficiently done, take out the skewer, put it on a dish, and pour over it the following ra- gofit:—Boil up (separately) three carps’ roes, and some asparagus heads, and then put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, mushrooms, parsley, and scal- lions ; do them over the fire, and add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and the same of soup niaigre. When the ragodt is sufficiently done, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and some cream. Coo with Herbs.*—Prepare a cod, and lay it in salt and water; when it has been in an hour, place it in a table dish, with sweetherbs ready cooked, and but- ter ; season with salt, peeper, nutmeg, and spices in powder; sprinkle the fish with drippings, moisten it with a bottle of white wine, baste it frequently with melted butter, and bake it; when done, squeeze the juice of two lemonp over it. Cod Pie.—Lay a fine piece of fresh cod in salt for several hours, then wash it well, season it with pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace; place it in a dish, with a little butter and some good stock. Lay a crust over, and bake it; when done, pour in a sauce, made as followsa spoonful of stock, a quarter of a pint of cream, flour and butter, grate in a little nutmeg and lemon-peel, and a few oys- ters, boil the whole once. . Cod in Salt kVater.*—The cod being properly cleaned and prepared, rub it all over with lemon-juice, and put it into the fish-kettle with salt and water, two or three bay-leaves, an equal number of cloves of garlic, some slices of onion, parsley, and a glass of verjuice; let it stand over the fire (taking care that it does not boil) until sufficiently done ; then drain and serve it on a napkin, gar- nished with parsley. Serve with it any fish sauce you think proper. Cod Sauce.—Take a bunch of parsley, chibbol, two shalots, two cloves, a bay- leaf, some mushrooms, and a hit of but- ter ; soak all together on the fire, adding a small spoonful of flour and milk or cream sufficient to boil to the consis- tence of a sauce; and add to it some chopped parsley, first scalded. Cod Stuffed.*—Chuse a fine large cod, and having cleaned and washed it, lay it an hour in salt and water; drain it, and fill the body with a farce, made of pounded whitings and anchovies; place it on a table-dish, pour over it a bottle of white wine, butter, and chopped parsley; then bake it, and when done, drain off the fat, without removing from the dish. Cover it with sauce d la Menehoult, strew bread-crumbs, and a little Parme- san cheese grated over the fish, and with a feather do it over with melted butter; colour it in the oven, drain it again, clean the dish, and serve with a white sauce Italienne. Cod (Scollops of) en bonne Morue.— iVork three spoonsfulaof bechameUeover the fire with a good bit of butter, season- ed with pepper and salt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in the sauce, and then let them remain in the sauce-till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of a dish, put the flakes or scollops of cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, strew bread- crumbs over, and brown it with the sala- mander. Garnish your dish with toasted bread cut in different forms, and placed alternately. Cod d la^ Matlre d’Hotel.—Put the flakes of cod into umaitre d’hdlel, season them well, and add the juice of a lemon. Iserve them very hot. Cod (Soolkps of) in a Vol au Vent.— Prepare the sauce and fish as for Bonne Monte, but not quite so thick. Place a l ol au /■'euf in the table dish, and put the cod into it; do not, however, put it in until just as it ought to go to table. Cream sauce may be used en maigre. Cod (Salt).*—The flesh of good salt( 176 ) COD c o i:> cod is very white, and the flakes large ; the skin is very dark, almost black, and before it is dressed it should he soaked in milk and water, or water alone, lor several hours ; if very dry and salt, a whole day will not be too long. When you think the salt sufficiently soaked out, put the fish into a fish kettle with plenty of cold water, set it on the fire ; when nearly boiling, skim it, tutd let it simmer gently till done. Serve with it egg sauce, and garnish your dish with parsnips or potatoes. To make the fol- lowing dishes, the fish should be pre- viously parboiled. Cod (Suit) a I’j4nglaise,*—Cut the fish in pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with melted butter, and a glass of broth maigre, cover it close, and let it stew. Melt some butter in an equal quantity of cream, add nutmeg grated, and when well mixed together, put it into your dish with the cod over it. Cod (Salt) au Beurre Roux*—Roll a piece of butter in a little flour and pow- der sugar, and brown it; do some sliced onions in this ; when tliey are a proper colour, add a spoonful of vinegar to them ; boil up the whole once, and pour it on some flakes of boiled salt cod. Gar- nisb with fried parsley. Cod (Salt) in Black Butter.*— 'BoW and drain the fish, put it on the dish for table, with half a glass of vinegar, the same of broth, and some coarse pepper, place your dish over the fire, and let it boil for seven or eight minutes, and serve it with black butter poured over it. Cod (Salt) a la Bonne Femme. — Is prepared in the same way as d la mntlre d'hotel, with the addition of potatoes; boil and let them stand till cold; then cut them into slices, the size and thick- ness of a half crown; do them in the sauce with the fish. Cod (Salt) d la Bordelaise.*—Take an earthen dish that will bear the fire, and put into it some olive oil, butter, a couple of anchovies, parsley, scallions, sbalots, and gar lic, all chopped small, and two or three slices of lemon ; put it on the fire, and when of a proper con- sistence, put in the fish ; let it soak and boil slowly for half an hour, 'i'hen grate bread over it, brown it with the salaman- der, and serve it hot. Cod (Salt) d la Bourguignotte.*—Cut half-a-dozen large onions into rings, and colour them in some butter ; then make a rotix of butter, clarify, and put it to the onions, with salt, pepper, and vinegar. Dress yotir cod .as for maffre d’hOceU drain and dish it. Serve with the above sauce. , , , Cod (Salt) with Capers and Ancho- vies.*—Bo\\ the cod as usual, and when done, drain and dish it; pour over it some caper and anchovy sauce. Cod (Salt) d la Crime.*—Soak and boil the fish as d ^ mattre d’hOlel; melt some butter in a stewpan, with some flour, pepper, nutmeg and garlic; tliick en it with the yolks of three eggs, add a glass of cream and some chopped parsley. Put the flakes of cod into this sauce ; let them boil gently a short time, and serve it quite hot. Or, when you have put the cod into the sauce, bread and bake it; take oll'all.the fat belore yon serve, and add mushrooms, artichoke-bottoms, and asparagus-heads. Con (Salt) Croguetlesof.*—Cut some ready dressed salt cod into dice, and put them into a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, a spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and half a glass of cream ; put it on the fire, let it boil up once, and stir it, that all may be well mixed, and then let it stand ; when cold divide it into fifteen or twenty heaps ; shape and bread them; break four or five eggs, season and beat them up well, dip the croquettes into it, bread them a second time, and just before they are wanted, fry them in very hot lard. Let them be of a nice colour, lay them on a cloth a minute, and then place them in a pyramidal form on a bed of fried pars- ley. Cod (Salt) Fried.*—Boil and pull a cod into flakes, and put it into some bechamelle, let it cool in this sauce. Place the flakes in little heaps, bread them, dip each heap into some well beaten eggs, bread them a second time, fry them of a nice colour, and serve with orange-juice and fried parsley. Cod (Salt) Fritters.* — Dip some flakes of previously boiled cod in a bat- ter made of wine, sweet oil, and a very little salt; fry, and garnish with fried parsley. Cod (Salt) d la Languedocienne.* — Make a sauce with a bit of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and sweet herbs minced, halfa glass of sweet oil and some bread crumbled ; when sufficiently thick and well flavoured, put in the tail of a salt cod, and stew it gently for half an hour ; serve it hot, and squeeze the juice of half a lemon over. Cod (Salt)d la Lyunuise.—Fry some onions, cut into dice, very brown in but- ter, sprinkle them witli flour, and add a little milk or cream; season it well. Cod (Salt) d la Mattre d'Hutel.*-- Soak your fish (if very salt) lor a whole day in milk and water, aftci"wards soak it in hot water, t.ake oil the scales, and put the fish into cold water on theCOD ( 177 ) COD fire; when it has boiled up several times, skim, and cover it close for a mi- nute ; then drain and put it into a stew- pan with butter, parsley, scallions cut small, salt, coarse pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wlien the butter is melted and well soaked into the fish, serve it with sauce d la Mailre d'Mtel, and lemon- juice. Cod {Salt) d la Mailre d’Hotel.*—V\xt the fish when soaked, &c. into a fish- kettle with cold water; when near boil- ing, skim it, and the moment it does boil take it from the fire, and cover it with a cloth for seven or eight minutes ; then drain and place the fish, with parsley, chopped scallions, pepper, nutmeg, a bit of butter, and a spoonful of sweet oil on a dish, make it quite hot, and serve im- mediately. Cod {Salt) Marinated and Fried.*— Having boiled and flaked it, marinate it 1 for two or three hours in a little water, with vinegar, pepper, parsley, scallions, garlic, sliced onions, bits of carrots and cloves. Drain it well, and dry it, flour and fry it. Serve with fried parsley. Cod {Salt) Pie.*—Put some flakes of boiled cod (eold)’into a puff paste, with butter, pepper and sweet herbs; when baked take out the herbs, and put into the pie some sauce a/acj’e'tne. Cod (Salt) d la Provengale.*—Pre- pare and boil the cod as d la Mailre d’Hotel; put it into a stewpan with fresh butter, pepper, nutmeg grated, shred parsley and scallions, a little sweet oil, and a clove of garlic; mix this together well, and then put in your fish, make it quite hot, stirring constantly. Serve with the sauce over it and a little lemon-juice. Secondf Vuxj.*—When the fish is boiled, f take ofl'the skin, bone, crush it with a I spoon, and then pound it. Put it in a saucepan over the fire, and pour in, a little at a time, half a pound of sweet oil, shake it about, and to prevent its turn- P ing, put in frequently some garlic- U water. When the fish has thoroughly P imbibed the oil, squeeze on it some n lemon-juice, and serve it. Garnish with E fried crusts. j Third fVay.*—Spread some butter on a dish, and lay on it parsley, shalots, I scallions, garlick, pepper, nutmeg, and I a spoonful of oil. Place the cod (boiled I and in flakes) on this seasoning, and i cover it with the same; moisten it with i sweet oil; strew bread-crumbs, drop a 1 little more oil over, and colour it in the r oven, or with a salamander. Lemon- ' juice may be added. Cod (Salt) en Stinquerque.*—Take a i; <lish that will bear the fire, and put into P U a bit of butter, -with some parsley, scallions, garlic, and anchovies, all minced, pepper, and a few whole capers; on this put a layer of salt cod, then a layer of the seasoning, and so on, alter- nately, until the dish is quite full; cover the whole with bread-crumbs, place tlie dish on a stove, let it boil a little while. Brown it with the salamander. Cod {Salt) uu Verd-pre.*—Boil the fish in butter and sweet herbs; dishit, and cover it with parsley chopped very small; squeeze lemon-juice over, and serve It hot with any other seasoning. _ Cod Sounds.—This is the white skin of the .belly, and is reckoped a great de- licacy,’and may be either boiled, broiled, or fried. Previous to dressing either way, they should be well soaked, washed, and boiled a little. Cod Sounds, Boiled with Gravy.— Scald them in hot water, and rub them well with salt; blanch them, that is, take off the blacked dirty skin, then, set them on in cold water, and let them simmer till they begin to be tender; take them out, flour, and broil them on the gridiron. In the meantime, take a little good gravy, a little mustard, a little bit of butter rolled in flour, give it a boil, season it with pepper and salt. Lay the sounds in your dish, and pour the sauce over them. Cod Sounds, en Poule.—Make a force- meat with some chopped oysters and an- chovies, bread-crumbs, a little butter, hind it with two eggs, and season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Wash and boil in milk and water, three or four sounds, and v/hen cold, put a layer of the forcemeat on each, and roll them up in the form of chickens, and skewer them. Lard them, sprinkle flour over, and cook them gently in a Dutch oven. Serve with oyster-sauce. Cod {Salt), Tails of, d VAnglaise.— Make a sauce with the pulp of two le- mons, some anchovies cut into dice, shred parsley and scallions, a little pep- per, garlic, a small piece of butter, and about the same quantity of oil; heat it up gently, stirring it constantly. Pour half this sauce on a dish, place the salt cod (ready boiled) in it, garnish it with fried cuusts, pour the remainder of the sauce over; cover it with raspings, and cook it in a slow oven for a quarter of an hour. Clean the edges of the dish, and serve. Cod {Salt) Tail of, forced.—Ruh two handsful of hread-cruinbs mixed with a pint of milk through a cullender; boil it until the bread is very thick, and then set it to cool; after this, put to it a piece of batter the size of an egg, parsley, chopped scallions, salt, pepper, andCOD 178 ) C O F tlie yolks of six ogga. Boil and drain the tail of a salted cod, take out all the meat, but leave in the bone; cut the meat to pieces ; put into a stcwpan a piece of butter, some mushrooms cut in bits, parsley, scallions, shalots, and gar- lic, all minced; do it up over the lire, then add a spoonful offlour, a little milk, and coarse pepper. Boil this until very thick, when the fish should be put in with the yolks of three eggs ; keep it on the fire, a little wliile, but do not let it boil, and then set it to cool. Put the piil bone on the table-dish, wrap the end in a buttered paper, surround the bone with part of the first mentioned mixture, then put in the ragofit, cover it with the remainder of the farce, and form the whole into the shape of the cod’s tail, brush it over with egg, cover it with bread-crumbs, and bake it. When done, clean the edges of the dish, and put into it some sauce made with a glass of stock, a bit of butter worked with flour, a spoon- ful of verjuice, salt, and pepper; thicken it over the fire. CODLINGS, Grillees. — Take three fresh codlings, egg them over, shake them in flour, and broil them over a mo- derate fire, till well done and of a good colour on both sides, or you may toss them in egg and crumbs of bread, as di- rected for turbot. Serve them with sauce a I’espagnoie. Codlings with Sweet Herbs,—Cut a codling into six or eight pieces, bone it as clean as possible, and marinate it in melted butter, lemon-juice, and all sorts of sweet herbs chopped ; then lay it on the table-dish with all the niarinade,both under and over it; cover it with bread- crumbs, and add small bits of butter, or a few drops melted, close to each other; bake it in the oven ; it will require but a short time baking. Codlings, pickled like Mangoes.— Make a brine of water and salt, strong enough to bear an egg: take codlings full grown, but not ripe ; let them lie in the brine for ten days, shifting the pickle once in two days; then dry them, and scoop out the cores, take out the stalks BO that you may put them in again in the mom of the core ; fill them with ginger, sliced very thin, a clove of garlick, and whole mustard-seeds. Put in the piece of apple that belongs to the stalk, and tie It up tight; put to them as much white-wine vinegar with cloves of gar- lic, whole mustard-seed, and sliced ginger as will cover them: pour this pickle upon them boiling hot every other day for a fortnight or three weeks, and keep lliein in stone jars. This will imi- tate the real raangoe better than cu- j cumber. | CoDLiNG7’arf.—Scald some codlings, let I them stand an hour in the same water I covered, which will make them look j green, then put them into your tart, | either whole or quartered, put in sugar, [ and a little musk, close them up, and i let it bake; boil a quart of cream with I the yolks of four or five eggs, sugar, and a little musk; when your tart is half baked, cut it open, jnd pour your cream, &c. on the codlings; set it in the oven again for half an hour, then scrape some \ sugar over it, and serve it up hot. COFFEE.*—The coflee-pot should be three parts full of boiling water; the coffee is to be added a spoonful at a time, and well stirred between each; then boil | gently, still stirring to prevent the mix- 1 ture from boiling over as the coflee ' swells, and to force it into combination 1 with the water, this will be effected in I a few minutes, after which, the most ‘ gentle boiling must be kept up during | an hour. The coffee must then be re- ' moved from the fire to settle, one or two i spoonsful of cold water thrown in assists ■ the clarification, and' precipitates the I grounds. In about an hour, or as soon I as the liquor has become clear, it is to be ! poure.d into another vessel, taking care !i not to disturb the sediment. Coffee made in this manner will be of the finest flavour, and may be kept three days in summer, and four or five in win- i ter; when ordered for use, it only re- quires heating in the coffee-pot, and may be served up at two minutes’ notice. The grounds or sediment which re- main, will make a second quantity of coffee, by boiling with fresh water for an hour; this is frequently used by seiwantsi As this process requires some, time, and a little attention, it is frequently the custom for the cook to make it in the evening, when the hurried work of the day is over. Coffee (French Methctlof preparing it).*—1st. Let your coffee be dry, not in the least mouldy or damaged. 2d. Divide the quantity that is to be roasted into two parts. 3d. Roast the first part in a coffee- roaster, the handle of which must be kept constantly turning until the coffee becomes the colour of dried almonds or bread-raspings, and has lost one eighth of its weight. 4th. Roast the second part until it as- sumes the fine brown colour ofehesnuts, and has lost one-fifthbf its weight. 5th. Mix the two parts together, and grind them in a coffee-mill.C O F (179 ) C 0 F 6th. Do not roast or make your coflee until the day it is wanted. 7th. To two ounces of ground colie^ put four cups of cold water. Draw ofl this infusion, and put it aside. 8th. Put to the coffee wliich remains in the three cups of boiling water, then drain it oft'and add this infusion to that which has been put aside. By this method you obtain three cups more. tPhen your coftee is wanted, heat it quickly in <a silver coffee-pot, taking care not to let it boil, that the perfume may not be lost by undergoing any eva- poration. Then pour it into cups, which eacli person may sw^eeten according to his taste. Particular care should be taken not to make coffee in a tin vessel; it should be made either in a China vessel, or one of delft ware, or in one of silver. For a long time, the tin biggins, in- vented by Monsieur de Belloy, were made use of; but some person has since improved upon his plan, bjr making them in silver or porcelain, which are found to be much better. Coffee, to make^ d In Chausse.*—Put some ground coftee into a bag ; heat the marc or the leve which has been made the day before ; and whilst it is boiling, put in the bag; then draw it off'; pour the infusion several times backwards and forwards; then heat it again ready for use. The marc which remains in the bag jnay be boiled up again, and may be made use of the next day. Coffee (to make xoith cold Water),* —Upon two ounces of coft'ee pour seven cups of cold water ; then boil it until the coffee falls to the bottom ; when the froth has disappeared, and it is clear at the top like boiling water, it must be taken oil'the fire and allowed to stand ; but as it often requires clearing, a little cold water should be poured into it the in- stant it is taken off the fire from boiling. A quicker method of clearing it, is, by putting into it a small piece of isinglass. When it has stood a sufficient time to allow it to settle, pour oft' the infusion gently into another cofl'ee-pot; it is then ready for use. After the infusion has been drawn off the marc, that is, the grouts or remains, may be boiled up aeain, to make coffee for the next day. This infusion is called marc or the lei e. Coffee (to make with hot Water).*— Instead of pouring cold water upon the coft'ee, boiling water must be poured upon it, taking care not to let the froth run over, which is to be prevented by pouring the water on the coffee by de- grees. It is then made the same as the preceding receipt. Coffee (to give the Flavoiir of ka- nilla).*—Take a handful of oats, very clean, and let them boil for five or six minutes in soft water; throw this away; then fill it up with an equal quantity, and let it boil for half an hour; then pass this decoction through a silk sieve, and use it to make your coft'ee, which will require, by this means, the flavour of vanilla, and is most excellent. Coffee, Blancmange of.—Roast two ounces of the best coffee ; grind, and pour on it a glass of boiling water; let it stand, covered close; and when the coffee is precipitated, pour off the infu- sion, and mix it with six ounces of sugar, and half an ounce of clarified isinglass. Pound and extract your milk of almonds as directed in Blancmange of Cedrats. Divide the liquid, and fill your mould as therein explained. Coffee Bonboiis.—Take about a pint of coft'ee made with water; put in it a pound of loaf-sugar; set it on the fire, and boil it to a high degree; then add a full pint of double cream, and let it boil again, keeping continually stirring till it comes to caramel height; to know when it is come to that point, you must have a bason of water by you ; dip your finger in it, and put it quickly in your sug.ar, then in the water again, to remove the sugar, which will have stuck to it; take ahit of it in your teeth ; if it is hard in its crackling,take it off, it is sufficient! y done; pour it upon a tin plate, which must be rubbed before with a little butter, or it will stick to the plate; then spread it with a rolling pin ; (observe, the rolling pin must likewise be rubbed w’ith butter, for fear it should stick); when it is warm, you may cut it into little squares, lo- zenges, or any other shaped pastilles, and draw a few strokes over them with a knife. Coffee (Cowserues).*—Clarify and boil to the first degree a pound of sugar; take the sugar off the fire, and put into it one cup of coffee ; stir it about until it comes to the sixth degree, that the conserve may take the sugar and dry. Viard and Beauvillier both recommend the coffee to he made very strong. Coffee Cream.—Mix three cups of good coffee with one pint of cream, and sugar according to taste ; boil them to- gether, and reduce them about one-third; observe that the coffee must be done as if it was for drinking alone, .and settled very clear, before you mix it with the cream. Coffee Cream.—Boil a pint of milk, and the same of thick cream together ;( 180 ) C O F COF have then a quarter of a pound of raw coffee ; roast it in a fryintr-pan, and when done of a good colour, wliile hot, put it into your boiled cream and milk ; cover it close, and let it stand for an hour, then put it in the tammy ; drain the liquor from, and squeeze it well to get the flavour of the coiice; mix in some clarified sugar, enough to sweeten it, boiled smooth; beat up the yolks of three eggs, which stir in with your cream; rub and squeeze it through the tammy, at the same time add isinglass enough to set it, and pour it in a mould, with ice round it as usual. Coffee Cream.—Roast one ounce of coffee; put it hot into a pint and alialf of boiling cream; boil these together a little, take it off, put in two dried giz- zards; cover this close, let it stand one hour; sweeten with double-refined su- gar; pass it two or three times through a sieve with a wooden spoon ; put it into a dish with a tin on the top; set the dish on a gentle stove; put fire on the top upon tlie tin : when it has taken, set it by. Serve it cold. •Coffee Cream Infuse a quarter of a pound of fresh roasted coffee in three glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close, and when nearly cold, pass it through a napkin ; pour the infusion by degrees into a stewpan, in which are the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of flour, and a grain of salt. Stir and boil the cream as directed, (see Cream Putis- siere); add to the butter, as therein mentioned, a quarter of a pound of pow- der-sugar, and the same of crushed sweet macaroons. Coffee au Creme.*—Put two spoons- ful of coffee, with some sugar, into three pints of cold cream; boil it for half an hour, let it stand; beat up the yolks of eight eggs, strain them through a sieve, then mix the whole together. Put it in a bain marie, to simmer over a slow fire, keeping it constantly stirring. Coffee (fVhite) Cream.* — Boil for a quarter of an hour a litre of good milk with two ounces of roasted coffee, tfie same quantity of raw coffee bruised, and a small piece of lemon-peel; after having strained the whole through a sieve, .add to it half a pound of powdered sugar, the yolks of six, and the whites of three eggs, beaten together, with a spoonful of cream. Tfien place the cream upon a dish, over a stewpan full of boiling water; when it is set, ice it over with sugar, and pass a salamander over it; leave it to cool before it is served. Coffee (IPhUe) Cream.*—Infuse two ounces of roasted coffee in a gill of boiling cream for half an hour ; then stiain the cream through a napkin; sweeten and add three yolks and two whole eggs; mix them well, and pass it through a bolting several times. Heat eight small custard moulds, by dipping them in warm water; having in the mean wliile boiled some sugar to grand casse ; pour it into tlie moulds; tfien drain and fill them with the preparation, taking care to stir it well. I^et them stand over a small fire, hut with plenty of fire at the top ; when done, turn them on a dish ; heat about a cupful of coffee d I’eau, and pour it over each cream, and serve them. Coffee Cream.—Boil a calf’s foot in water till it wastes toapintof jelly; clear off the sediment and fat. Make a tea- cup of very s/rong coffee', clear it with a bit of isinglass, to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pintof very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the disb. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Ob- serve that your coflee he fre.sh. Coffee Cream uu Bain Marie.*—In- fuse a quarter of a pound_ of roa.=ted coflee in six glasses of boiling milk; cover it close till lukewarm, then strain, and mix it a little at a time, with ten yolks, one whole egg, a grain of salt, and ten ounces of sugar. When thoroughly incorporated, strain it again, and finish as usual. See Cream au Bain Marie. Coffee Cream a la Francaise.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coflee, and in- fuse it in five glasses of boiling milk ; cover it close, and let it stand till luke- warm ; then strain, and mix it with ten ounces of powder-sugar, a grain of salt, and the yolks of eight eggs. Then pro- ceed as directed in Cocoa Cream <i la Fran^aise. Coffee, CrSmeof, {Liqueur).*—Ronst and grind half a pound of the best coffee, and infuse it for a week in three quarts of brandy ; at the end of that time distil it in the bain marie, but be careful not to have too much heat, as in that case the coffee is apt to rise, and by that means spoil the liqueur. Dissolve three pounds .and a half of sugar in the same quantity of water; mix it with the li- queur. and then stmin it. Coffee, Small Cujttards of.* — Mea- sure fifteen of your moidds full of cream, and boil it; and having, in the meari time, lightly roasted three ounces of coffee, throw it into the ladling cream; cover it close, and let it infuse for a quiirter of an hour ; then pass it through .a napkin, and proceed as directed. (See Small Cusfard.<:.) Coffee /i'g-g-g.—Make some good strong coflee ; let it rest to clear as usual, and( ISl ) COF C O F sweeten it with sugar according to dis- cretion ; beat up six yolks of eggs, with about four cups of collee, mid sift it; pour this into little moulds in tlie form of eggs, or of any other, (do not fill them qiiite), and bake in a mild oven, or a Dutch one, or with a brazing-pan ; cover between two fires. They are made after this manner, in the shape of any fruits or birds, if you have proper moulds, either of copper or china. See. Coffee Fanchonnettes. * — Roast a quarter of a pound of coflee, and infuse it for a quarter of an hour in three glasses of milk; cover it quite close; pass it through a napkin, and then add it to the other ingredients, and proceed as directed. (See Fanchonnettes). To flavour these with chocolate, grate a quarter of a pound, and mix with the other ingredients, instead of the coffee; in this latter, two ounces of sugar must be omitted. Coffee au Fromage.—The mode of in- fusing coffee for creams is by throwing your cofl'ee into thewhole ofyour cream; but in making coffee au fromage, only use one half of the cream for the infusion, which, when cold, mix with the other half. Beat the whole on ice, add isin- glass, and then fill the mould, &c. &c. Coffee Fromage Bavarois, of. * — Having roasted a quarter of a pound of coffee, put it into two glasses of boiling milk, cover the infusion, and when about lukewarm, pass it through a napkin; then mix with it half a pound of powder sugar, and six drachms of isinglass, and when they are perfectly incorporated, strain it again. Put your preparation into the vessel with ice, and as soon as it begins to take, mix with it a plate of whipped cream, and finish in the same manner as all other Frnmnges Bavarois. Coffee Frothed or fVhipped.*—Take a quarter of a pound of ground coffee, make a very strong infusion with it, and pass this through a straining bag; having dissolved three quarters of a pound of powder sugar in a pint of double cream, and the yolks of six eggs, put in the cof- fee, of which there should be no more than three cups, and whip it as directed ior frothed cream. Coffee Ice Cream.—Make three dishes of strong coflee ; pour it ofl' very dear, to mix with three half pints of cream, or the same proportion for more or less, and three quarters of a pound of sugar; boil a moment together, and when cold, ice it. Coffee Ice d I'Italienne.*—Infuse a quarter of a pound of roasted cofl’ee in a pint of double cream, boiling hot, for two hours, closely covered; half whip the whites of nine eggs, and having strained the cream from the cofl’ee, mix it wiUi them, add half a pound of powder sugar, and put it over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then ice it in the usual \vay. Coffee au daune d’ (Ei//.*—Put into a basin the yolk of an egg, and some sugar; then gently pour upon them one cup of cofl’ee, carefully beat them to- gether that they may he well mixed ; add to them one cup of water ; then put the whole into a bain-marie to \varm, keeping it constantly stirring with a spoon to prevent its curdling; when it is warm, serve it out in cups. You may add to it if you please a teaspoonful of orange flower water. Coffee Jelly.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of the best cofl’ee, and having made an infusion of it, strain,and add to it two glasses of white brandy, and some lemon- juice, and finish the jelly in the usual way. (See Currant Jelly framhoisce.) (joFFEE Jelly.*—Roast a quarter of a pound of coffee over a moderate fire to a fine yellow; take it from the fire, set aside the eighth part of it, and throw die rest into throe glasses of nearly boiling water; cover it close, and let it cool. In the meantime, boil half a glass of water, and pour it over the small portion of cof- fee, (which should be ground), adding a little isingl.ass; when perfectly clear, pour it to the other infusion, having pre- viously strained it through a silk sieve ; filter the whole, and mix it with three quarters of a pound of clarified sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, and half a glass of kirschwasser. Finish with ice, as usual. Coffee MIA-.—Boil a desert spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour ; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to prow fine. Coffee Varjait Amour. — For four bottles of brandy, take one pound of coffee in powder; a little salt, two cloves, a little cinnamon ; then mix all together for twelve hours before you distil it; two pounds of sugar, two bottles and half a pint of water, clarified with whites of eggs, filtered through the paper. Coffee Paste.—To half an ounce of gum dragon, dissolved inaglass ofwater, put an ounce of cofl’ee powder; sift it in a fine lawn sieve, mix it in a mortar, with as rnuch sugar-powder a'S is neces- sary to give it a proper consistence, and finish as all other pastes. Coffee Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, have abotit the quantity of two cu])s of cofl’ee made with water, which put to your sugar, and mixC O F ( 1^ ) C 0 F I i well till you ace it makes a royal paste, a little tliickish, that you may take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, which we call pastils, of the size of a farthing ; place it in the stove with a slow fire till it is quite dry, and take it ofF from tlie paper. You may make them another way, viz. with ground coffee, which you sift very fine through a sieve, then adding a little water,_ to bring it to the proper degree of liquidity, the same as the above. Coffee {to Roust).* —Coffee should never be roasted but at the precise time of its being used, and then it should be watched with the greatest care, and made of a gold colour rather than a brown one ; above all, take care not to burn it, for a very few grains burnt will be sufficient to communicate a bitter and rancid taste to several pounds of coffee. It is the best way to roast it in a roaster, (over a charcoal fire), which turns with the hand, as by that means it is not forgot, which often is the case when on a spit before the fire. Coffee Sugar.*—Put a cup of strong coffee into a preserving-pan, and add to it a sufficient quantity of powder sugar to make it thick, put it on a moderate fire, stirring it constantly; the moment it begins to bubble, take it oftj and add two spoonsful of powder sugar; stir it with a silver spoon, scraping the sugar from the sides of the pan. As it cools it will thicken and become^darker; dry it in a stove, and then pass it thiough a fine sieve. Coffee {Syrup).*—Take two pounds of ground coflee, infuse one of the pounds of coffee in two pints of water, then let it stand to settle, when clear, pour it off’; then with this liquor infuse the other pound of coffee; boil half a pound of sugar to caramel height, colour it a deep red; then put it into the coffee to dis- solve ; then pour it into a pipkin with another half pound of sugar; carefully close the lid of the pipkin, and let it sim- mer for eight nr nine hours ; then strain it, and when cold, put it into bottles, cork them hermetically, and keep them in a cool place. When it is wanted for use, put some of the syrup into a cup, adding warm water according to the strength you wish to drink your coffee. The syrup of coffee is most useful in travelling, when there is not time nr conveniences for making coffee in the usual manner. Coffee Tart.—M\x a lilt'e floiu »nd cream, with one or two cups of good clear coffee, a bit of sugar, and three eggs; boll it about half an hour, stirring continually, for fear it should catch at bottom ; put it into the paste, and whiten of eggs beat up and frothed upon it; without ton-crust. Coffee fVufers.—To a common table- spoonful of ground coffee, put a quarter of a pound of sugar powder, and a quar- ter of a pound of fine flour; mix them well together, with as much good cream, as will make the paste or hatter pour out pretty thick from the spoon; the paste being prepared, warm the wafer iron on both sides, and rub it over with some butter, tied in a linen bag, or a bit of virgin wax; pour a spoonful of the bat- ter, and bake over a smart fire, turning the iron once or twice, until the wafer is done on both sides of a fine brown colour; if you would have them twisted, put them upon a mould, ready at hand for that purpose ; put it up directly, as you take it out, and press it to the shape of whatever form you please, and so con- tinue ; always keep them iu a warm place. Coffee {whipped).—\5pnn tliree half pints of cream, put two cups of strong coffee cleared : add four yolks of new-laid eggs beat up, half a pound of sugar, and about as much more cream. Coffee d I’eau.Cream an bain marie.* —Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground coffee in a glass of boiling water, let it stand, and when the coffee is settled, pour off the liquor into a preserving pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to caramel; cover this closely, and dissolve the sugar over hot ashes- Then pour the coffee into five glasses of hot milk; mix them with the yolks of ten eggs and one whole, six ounces of powder sugar, and a grain of salt. Strain the cream, and finish in the usual way. See Cream au bain marie. Coffee u I’eati, Cream d la Fran- (aise.*—Infuse a quarter of a pound of ground coffee in a glass of boiling water, when the coffee is precipitated, pour it off clear; boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to caramel, pour the coffee into it, and then put it on hot ashes, that the sugar may dissolve gently, and when it is perfectly melted, stir in gradually the yolks of eight eggs, four glasses of boiling milk, and six ounces of sugar; after which put it on a moderate fire, stirring witli a wooden spoon ; when it begins to simmer, pass it through a fine sieve, .and let it st.and till lukewarm; then mix in six drachms of clarified isinglass, and finisli as Cream d la Fraticaise. CoFFEF fi Ptuu. wbipmd Cream.*— Infuse two minces of frcsli ground coffee in half a glass of water; and when the I II I I ! I I I I' |. P II li I ) 1 ICOL ( 18.3 ) COL them lightly; drain and sprinkle them with sugar; glaze and serve them. Fresh fruits may be used also, first infusion is drawn oft' clear, put it to two ounces of sugar boiled to caramel; place it over hot ashes, and when the sugar is dissolved, let it cool; then mix it, and four ounces of powder sugar, with the whippec cream. See that article. Coffee H I'eau, Fromage Buvarots. —Put a quarter of a pound of ground cof- fee gradually into two glasses of boiling water; give it one boil, and when the froth is gone, put in a small piece of isinglass; let it stand a little while, and then pour it oft' clear. Add to this liquid half a pound of powder sugar, and six drachms of isinglass; proceed alter this in the usual way. COLLOPS.—Cut some veal cutlets; fry them a good brown, but not too much ; take some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour, boil it a few minutes ; add cayenne, catsup, truffles, morels, salt, mushrooms pickled, grated lemon- peel; simmer this up, just heat the col- lops through, add what gravy came from them, but do not let them boil, or they will he hard; add forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs; lay round little slices of bacon, notched and toasted, and sliced lemon. CoLLOPs a laBechanielle.—Soak a slice of ham, with a bit of butter, chopped parsley, shalots, and half a bay leaf; sim- mer these on a slow fire, about a quarter of an hour ; then add a spoonful of good cullis, as much cream, and a little flour and pepper; reduce the liquor till quite thick, and strain it in a sieve ; cut the breasts of roasted poultry into small bits; put the meat into the sauce, with the oik of one egg, and give them a few oilings together; cut also thin hits of paste, to what form you please, put this ragoflt between two pieces, pinch all round to secure the sauce, and fry them of a fine brown colour. CoLLOPS d la Parisienne.*—Roll out about a pound of brioche paste very thin, and lay on it at intervals, beginning at two inches from the edge, small portions of minced fowl or game, moisten the paste round each portion lightly, turn the plain part over, and with a round paste cutter, cutout the collops, taking care that the minced meat is in the cetitre of each. Leave them for two hours on a well- floured tin, fry them in a warm pan, and when of the proper colour, drain them on a napkin, and serve them. Collops of Preserves. * — Roll out some pulF-paste very thin, wet it, and lay on it at intervals whatever preserves you think proper, roll your paste over, press the ends together, and fay them on a tin; just before they are wanted, fry stewing the fruit. Collops d la Riisse.* Break four eggs into a stewpan, and mix with them two spoonsful of flour, then half a glass of good cream, a spoonful of warm butter, and a grain of salt; when these are well mixed together, pour some of it into a large frying-pan, and fry it of a light colour on both sides ; then take it out, and fry more in the same way, like pan- cakes, until you have a dozen very thin, cut each in half, and trim them into ob- long pieces all the same size: lay on each some quenelle., minced fowl or game, as if for croquettes ; wrap the fried batter round it, wetting the edges, that they may adhere properly, with a little of the batter, having reserved some for the pur- pose ; then have ready beaten, six eggs and a little salt, mask them with bread- crumbs, fry them of a good colour, and serve them quickly. Collops, Scotch, — Cut veal cutlets (taken from the fillet) into small thin pieces, and fry them in a little boiling lard till of a light brown colour. Drain them dry, put them into a stewpan, add cullis, stewed mushrooms, some blanched truffles, morels, pieces of artichoke bot- toms, some slices of throat sweetbreads, and egg balls. Let them simmer over a slow fire till tender, season to the palate, and serve them with rashers of broiled bacon round them. COLOURING {for Jellies, Cakes, ^-c.) —For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a drachm_ and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water very slowly, half an hour. Add, in boiling, a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered with a little drop of water; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a hit of saffron steeped in the liquor, and squeezed. For green, pound spinach-leaves, or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil in a teaeupful in a saucepan of water, to take off the rawness. COLTSFOOT {Syrup of).—Take of coltsfoot six ounces, maidenhair two ounces, hyssop one ounce, liquorice-root one ounce; boil them in two quarts of spring water till one-fourth is consumed; then strain it, and put to the liquor two pounds of fine powder-sugar ; clarify it with the whites of eggs, and boil it tijl it is nearly as thick as honey. R2C O U 184 COR CONSERVES,For all sorts of conserves, the sugar should be prepared to the ninth degree, according to the quantity wanted; they are all made much after the same manner, the otdy difference being in the quantity of fruits proposed. Conserves are made with all sorts of sweetmeat marmalade, sifted in a sieve, and soaked pretty dry over a slow fire; use about half a pound of the sugar thus prepared, to a quarter of a pound of sweetmeat marmalade; take tlie sugar olf the fire to work them well together; waNn the whole for a moment, and pour it into paper cases made for the purpose ; when it is cool it may be cut into cakes of what size you please. Conserve of Four Fruits.* — Take strawberries, currants, cherries, and raspberries, of each a quarter of a pound, and three pounds of sugar. Bruise your fruit, and having strained off' the juice, put it in a saucepan over a gentle fire, stirring it till reduced to half. Dissolve the sugar, skim, and boil it to ciisse; take it from the fire while you put in the juice, then put it on again, and give it one Iboil, take it off^ and keep stirring till the sugar bubbles, when the con- serve may be poured into moulds. Conserves, Hard in Moulds.*—These are made in the same manner as other conserves, except that they are com- posed of sugar, and distilled aromatic water; and may be coloured like pas- tils. CONSOMME.*—Take eight or ten pounds of beef-steaks, eight old hens, two young ones, and four knuckles of veal ; put these into a large pot, and fill it with strong brotli; skim it well, cool- ing it three or four times to make the scum rise, after which let it boil gently ; put into the pot carrots, turnips, onions, and three cloves. When your me;it is sufficiently done, jjass the liquor through a fine napkin or silk sieve, that it may be very clear. No salt need be put in if strong broth be used. Consomme of Game.*—Is made in the same manner as with poultry, substitut- ing the backs, &c. o/ partridges or other game for the trimmings of fowls. CoNSO.M.ME of Poultry.*—Lay a few slices of ham and veal at the bottom of a stewpan, and on them the trimmings of poultry, cover them with consomme, and let it stand over a slow fire till the meat is quite warmed through ; tlien add more consomme, mushrooms, parsley and scal- lions, and then let the whole continue to boil till done. Strain it through a silk sieve, and set it by for use. CORIANDER Dragees.— fake any quantity of coriander seeds, put them in the tossing-pan over the fire, and let them warm ; when they are warm throw in about half a glass of vinegar, stir them well till they are dry; have clarified sugar, which boil in another pan; then when the corianders are dry, add a little gum to them, and do the same again till they are dry, and continue so doing till you see the corianders are covered to the size you want to have them ; when that is done, take the corianders out from the pan, wash them well, and put them in again, and stir them well till they are all warm ; then take your clari- fied sugar, which you have previously boiled to the first degree; when this is done, put it in an instrument of copper, made on purpose for the operation, and at the bottom of which there is a little hole ; hang it up by a packthread string, that the sugar may fall from about a yard height into the pan where the corianders are ; while the sugar falls into your pan keep stirring well your dragees till you see they are well pearled over, or rough and grainy ; when they are sufficiently so, take them out, and place them in the stove to finish drying. Coriander/ees.—Bruise an ounce of coriander seed, infuse them about an hour in a pint of warm water, with half a podnd of sugar, and sift through a nap- kin ; then finish like other ices. Coriander Sugared.*—These seeds are sugared in the same manner as sugared almonds. Coriander IVater.—Having cleared your coriander seeds from the husks, out R a handful into a quart of water, with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and set it by to infuse for two or three hours; then pour the liquor out of one pot into ano- ther ; strain it, and keep it for use. COUGLAUFFLE German.*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yea.st, an ounce of fine salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, twelve eggs, the yolks ol twelve more, two pounds of fresh butter, three glasses of milk, and a q^uarter of a pound of sweet almond.s. Proceed with these materials in the fol- lowing ma.nnerput the butter (having slightly warmed half a pound of it.) into a glazed pan, and with a large wooden spoon work it up for six or seven mi- nutes; then put in two wliole eggs, and stir it two minutes; then add thrM yolks, and stir again two minutes ; in this manner put in the whole number of eggs and yolks; which will produce a kind of smooth cream. Then by degrees mix in two pounds of the flour, dissolve the I yeast in a glass of warm milk, strain it I through a napkin, stir this in well, with ’ another half pound of flour; make aI CO u ( 185 ) COW hollow in the j)aste, in which put the salt and sugar in powder; afterwards pour on it a glass of hot milk, and mix the whole together with the remainder of the flour; continue to work it up for some minutes after the whole in- gredients are put in, adding a small quantity of warm milk, which will render it smooth. Have a mould ready, butter it, and lay the sweet almonds, each cut in half, over the bottom of the mould, in forms, on which pour the paste care- fully, and in small quantities, so as not to derange the almonds. Place your mould in a warm, but not a hot place, that the cake may rise properly; and when that operation has taken place, put it into a moderate oven, which should be keptclosed; in an hour’s time look at the Couglauffle^ and if it be flexible, and of a light colour, let it remain thirty or forty minutes longer; but if it be firm and red it is sufficiently done; when taken from the mould, put it into the oven again for a few minutes. CouGLAoFFLEs Small.* — To make a dozen small couglauffles, take three quar- ters of a pound of flour, three drachms of yeast, two of salt, two whole eggs, three yolks, two ounces of sugar, a little cream, and half a pound of butter. The preparation is made the same as the German Couglavfflp. When the paste is made, divide it into twelve equal parts; butter a dozen small biscuit moulds, and fill each with your preparation, and let them stand ; when risen so as to fill the moulds, put them into a brisk oven, and take them out as soon as they are of a light colour. COQQUES.*—Putinto a saucepan the yolks oi sixteen eggs, the rinds of two lemons, half an ounce of salt, and two ounces of sugar; on these pour a pint of boiling cream, stirring it quick; set it on the fire, but do not let it boil, strain it through a bolting, and then let it cool; take tvfo pounds of flour, and make a quarter of it into leaven with half an ounce_ of yeast and_ a little warm water, keep it rather moist, and put it into a warm place to rise : in the meantime, make the remainder of the flour into a paste, with the cream and a quarter of a pound of blitter, knead it up five or six times j then put in the leaven, and knead it again twice; tie it up in a floured cloth, and set it in a warm place. I n about two hours take it out, and cut the paste in pieces the size of an egg, form them to that shape, and lay them on a baking tin, and leave them for half an hour to rise, then doves and bake them in allot oven ; when done,open each on one side, take out a little of the crumb. in the place of which put a bit of butter worked up with a little salt, and serve them. COURT BOUILLON.*—Cut a proper quantity of carrots, onions, celery, and turnips, and put them into a saucepan with blitter, parsley, garlic, thyme, basil, salt, a mignonette and cloves ; sweat them over a gentle fire ; add white wine vinegar or verjuice ; boil, and then strain it, and serve it with whatever you may require it for. It is generally used for fish. Court Bouilmn for all sorts of Fresh JVater Fish.*—Put some water into a fish-kettle, with a quart of white wine, a slice of butter, salt, pepper, a large bunch of parsley and young onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaves, and basil all tiedJtogether,some sliced onions and some carrots ; boil the fish in this court bouillon., (which will serve for several times) and do not scale it; when the fish will admit of it, take care to boil it wrapped in a napkin, which makes it more easy to take out without danger of breaking. CO W-HEEL Boiled.—~So\\ a cow-heel very gently in a large saucepan of soft water, with nearly a quart of milk, some salt, and four or five large onions ; when very tender the cow-heel will be done enough. Serve with the onions. Cow-heel —Take six pounds of mutton, five pounds of beef, and four of veal, the coarsest pieces will do; cut them across with a knife ; put them into a pot with an old fowl beat to pieces, and the knuckle part of a ham: let these stew, without any liquor, over a very slow fire, but take care it does not burn to the pot; when it begins to stick to the bottom, stir it about, and then put in some good beef broth that has been well skimmed from the fat; put in some turnips, carrots and celery cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs and a bay- jeaf, add some clear broth, and let it stew about an hour; while this is doing, take a cow-heel, split it, and set it on to boil in some of the same broth ; when it is very tender, take it off, and set on a stewpan witn some crusts of bread, and some more broth ; let them soak for eight or ten minutes ; when the soup is stewed enough, lay the crust in a tureen, the two halves of the cow-heel upon them, and then pour on the soup, which will be ve^ rich and good. COW’S UDDER, and Verjuice Sauce. —Cut the udder in pieces, and put it into a stewpan, with chopped parsley, chib- bol, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, and butter; let it catch; then add a glass of white wine, broth, pepper and salt; R 3( 186 ) CR A C II A simmer it to a thick sauce ; then make a to'iwnvlth tlie yolks of two eggs and broth; when ready add aspoonful of ver- juice, or lemon. COWSLIP Pudding,—Get the flowers of a peck of cowslips, cut, and pound them small, with half a pound of Na- ples biscuits grated, and three pints of cream. Boil them a little, then take them off the fire, and beat up sixteen eggs with a little cream and rose-water. Sweeten to your palate. Mix it all well together ; butter a dish, and pour it in. Bake it, and when done throw fine sugar over, and serve it up. Note.—New milk will do when you cannot get cream. Cowslip /Fme.*—One gallon of water, three pounds of lump-sugar, one Seville orange, and one lemon to every gallon of cowslip pips. First boil the sugar and water an hour, skim it clear, and when boiling, pour it out, and let it stand till nearly cold; then put it into the barrel, upon the pips, and about a teacupful of yeast to eight gallons of wine. Peel half the number of oranges and lemons, squeeze the juice into the cask, cut the remainder into slices, which add with the peels. When the fermentation ceases, or has lasted a sufficient time, put to the whole a little brandy. CRACKNELS.—Mix a quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonsful of rose- water, into a stiff'paste, with cold water; then rub in a pound of butter, and make into a cracknel shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim ; then take them out, and put them into cold water; when hardened. Jay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. Ckacknels( Small Soft)*.—Blanch half a pound of sweet almonds, and pound them to a fine paste, adding to them by degrees six eggs; when thoroughly pounded, pour on them a pound of pow- der sugar, the same of butter, and the rinds_of two lemons grated; beat up these ingredients in the mortar: put a pound of flour on a slab, and having poured the almond paste on it, knead them together until they are well incor- porated ; roll it out, and cut the crack- nels into such forme as you may think proper, rub them with yolk of egg, and strew over tliem powder sugar or cinna- mon : then lay them on a buttered tin, and bake them in a moderate oven, tak- ing great care that they do not burn. ■Wh en done, put them into glasses, and if preserved in a dry place they are the better for keeping. Cback-nuts. — Mix together eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of su- gar ; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonsful of raisin wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make it into a paste ; add carraways, roll itoutas thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRABS.—If fresh, the joints of tlie legs will be stiff’, and the inside has an agreeable smell. When light, they are watery; therefore, always choose ihe heaviest. They are stale when the eyes look dead. Crab, to iloif.*—Choose your crab of the middling size, put it into boiling water with salt in it, keep it boiling for about three quarters of an hour; when done, wipe the shell quite clean, and rub it over with a little butter. Before they are sent to table, the large claws should be broken off', and the shell cracked carefully, the tail cut down the middle, and body sent up whole. Crabs, irotewer/, and served in the Shell. —Leave the great shell whole, mince all the fish, shred some parsley, mushrooms or truffles, a little young onion ; fry these; put in the minced crab, with the inside bruised, some pepper, salt, and grated lemon-peel; stir this about, shake on some flour, and add a little lemon-juice, with some good gravy ; let this simmer up; fill the shell or shells; strev» over bread-crumbs ; brown them in a Dutch oven, or with a salamander. Crabs, Buttered.—Pick out the fish, bruise the inside, beat it in a little gravy, with a little wine, some pepper, salt, nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, a piece of butter, with a very little flour, some vinegar or lemon-juice. Crab, Farced.—Boil a crab, take the meat out of the shell, and mince the claws with a fresh eel; season it with salt, cloves, mace, and sweet herbs, shred small; mix them with the yolks of eggs ; add grapes, gooseberries, or bar- berries, and boiled artichokes cut in dice, if in season, or asparagus boiled; some almond paste, the meat of the body of the crab, and some bread grated; fill the shells with this compound, and also make some of it into balls, put them into a dish with white wine and butter, and bake them in a gentle oven ; when they are baked, put them into another dish, and serve them with beaten butter, large mace, scalded grapes, gooseberries, or barberries, slices of orange or lemon, and tie yolks of raw eggs dissolved in claret or white wine, and beat up with thick butter; pour this on the fish, gar- nish with slices of lemon, slick the balls of farced meat with pistachios, sliced al-C R A ( 187 ) C R A monds, pine-apple seeds, or some pretty cuts in paste. Ckab jPie.—Take half a dozen crabs, boil them, and take the meat out of the shells, season it with salt and nutmeg, then soak the meat taken out of the bodies with claret wine, cinnamon, some ginger, butter, and juiceof orange; make your pie, lay some butter in the bottom, lay in the meat with artichoke-bottoms, the yolks of three or four hard eggs, chopped small; asparagus, large mace, barberries, grapes, dates, slices of orange and butter. When it is baked, liquor it with some of the meat out of the bodies of the crabs, mingled with cream or drawn butter. CRANBERRIES {different watjs of dressing).—For pies and puddings, with a good deal of sugar. Stewed in a jar, with the same; this way they eat well vyith bread, and are very wholesome. Thus done, pressed, and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. CaANBEBRY./e//y.—Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry-juice pressed, as directed in The different ways of dressing Cranberries; sweeten it, and boil it up ; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good lump, or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry a7id Rice Jelly.—Boil and press the fruit, strain thejuice, and, by degrees, mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat with milk or cream. Cranberry Tart.—This tart is made like all other fruit tarts; the best cran- berries should be used and well washed; a quarter of a pound of sugar is the pro- per quantity for a quart of cranberries; to this must be added thejuice of half a lemon. Serve it cold. CRAY-FISH, Bisque o/.—Take about fifty or sixty cray-fisn, stew them in a little water, with carrots, onions, par- sley, thyme, bay-leaves, salt, and pep- per, for about an hour, then drain, and take them out of their shells ; and having laid aside thirty of the tails whole, pound the remainder of the meat with the breasts of two roast fowls, the crumbs of two French rolls, previously soaked in rich broth, and the yolks of three hard eggs. Boil the shells in a little broth, and with the liquor, dilute the pounded meat, and rub the whole through a silk sieve. Boil a pint and a half of cream, keep it stirring, and pour on the soup ; season it, and add the coral of a lobster pounded, and mi.xed with a little broth ; set the whole on the fire, but do not let it boil. When quite done, pour it into the tureen on some previously soaked bread, and put the tails which were reserved, on the soup, and serve it Cray-fish. Broiled.*—The fish being boiled, take them out of their sliells, and soak them for a quarter of an hour in white wine, with pepper, salt, and shred parsley ; soak also in the same way, an equal number of fish roes; tie these, al- ternately, on skewers, dip them in egg, bread them lightly, and broil them of a nice colour. Cray-fish Butter {Sauce of).*—Boil your cray-fish in water, with vinegar, parsley, salt, and pepper ; take the meat from the shells, dry and pound it well with hmter, set the whole on a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, and pass it through a sieve into abasin of cold water and let it congeal. The shells must likewise be pounded, and mix them with the rest; if they do not make it sufficiently red, add a little orcanette root. Cray-fish d la Calonne.*—Take the number of cray-fish you may want, as fresh as possible ; split each in half, and put them into a stewpan with white wine, a little oil, a sliced lemon, salt and pepper, let them stew in this till done; then dish them ; add to the liquor some blond, reduce, and strain it, and pour it over your cray-fish. Cray-fish Cheese.*—Having washed and boiled the fish, as usual, take off the small claws and tails, and set them aside. Chop up the meat that remains in the shells vvith some other fish, artichoke- bottoms, sweet herbs, and butter ; mix them well, and put it in a dish in the form of a small cheese, round which lay the tails; cover it with bread-crumbs, and colour it in the oven for fifteen minutes. Cray-fish Cream.—Boil apint of cream and some fine sugar; reduce it to about half; pound the carcasses of eight or more cray-fish ; put them to this cream, with a fowl’s gizzard, and boil for about aquarter of an hour; then strain it several times, and bake it between two slow fires. Cray-fish {Cullis of).*—Wash and boil about thirty cray-fish in plain water, then take off the shells, and pound them well with the meat of the fish, and a dozen almonds. Cut a pound and a half of fillet of veal, and some ham into slices, and put them into a saucepan with an onion, carrots, and parsnips; do them until they are about the con- sistence of veal gravy ; then add a little flour and melted bacon; put them on( 18S ) C R E C R A I again, and keep them stirring; moisten the whole with good stock, and add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, scallions, champignons, truflles, and crusts of bread ; simmer it, take out the veal, put to it the pounded cray-lish, and then strain it. To make this cullis maigre, substitute butler for the bacon, and moisten it with fish broth. Cray-fish (Cullis of, au gras).* — Takeabout thirty cray-fish of a moderate size, and after several times washing them, boil them in water; then pick them and put the shells aside, pound them and twelve sweet almonds and the cray-fish well in a mortar ; then take a fillet of veaj and a piece of ham, cut them into slices with an onion, and add some slices of carrots and parsnips; when the whole has taken colour, add some melted bacon and a little flour; let it sim- mer, stirring it well; then moisten the whole with some good stock or broth. Add salt, pepper, cloves, basil, parsley, young onions, mushrooms, truffles, crusts of bread, and let it simmer; then take out the veal, dilute the contents of the mortar with the juice, and strain the whole through a sieve. Cray-fish ( Cullis of aumaigre).—In- stead of melted bacon, substitute butter; let whatever you make it of be only half browned, and moisten it with good fish liquor; but, of course, a cullis au maigre can never equal the excellence of a cullis au gras. Cray-fish, Potted.— Having boiled the fish in salt and water, and picked out all the meat, sprinkle them with spice, pepper, and salt, and then pound it to a fine paste, adding a little butter; put it into pots, and cover them with clarified butter. Crab is potted in the same way. Cray-fish d la Proveni^ale.*—Boil your fish in equal quantities of wine and water, with salt, lemon, sweet herbs ; shell them, remove the small claws, and simmer them for half an hour in w hatever sauce you please. Serve them with the sauce poured over, and around them. Cray-fish, au Restaurant (Jlace.*— Boil your fish in good broth, with two slices of veal, cut in dice; and when done, put them in your dish ; add to the liquor some veal or fowl gravy, and reduce it to a jelly, which pour over the cray-fish, put them in a cool place, that the jelly may set. Serve, cold. Cray-fish, Roasted.*—Vai the fish to soak in hot wine, butdo not boil them; when well drained, stui! them with sweet herbs, butter, salt, pepper, and basil; fasten them with skewers on a spit, and roast them before a gentle fire; baste them with their own dripping or boiling wine. Cray-fish, Salad o/.*—Boil cray-fish as usual, take them from the shells, put them into a salad-bowl with anchovies, artichoke-bottoms, and seasoned like ^ other salads. i Cray-fish Soup. — Put some eels, 1 flounders, &c. into cold water, set them j on the fire, and when near boiling, skim, j and add to it onions, carrots, parsley, and whole pepper. Take about fifty cray-fish, and having taken them from their shells, put them into the fish-broth, also the small claws and tails, finely pounded ; let them boil for an hour, then strain it oft’; add some crusts of bread, and the spawn of a lobster pounded. Cray-fish Soup.—Boil six whitings, and a large eel, with as much water as will just cover them; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves ; boil them to a mash. Pick fifty cray-fisb, pound the shells, and a small roll, but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs; put this liquor over the shells, on a sieve; then pour the other soup clear from the sediment; chop a lobster, and add this i to it, with a quart of good beef gravy ; t and also the tails of tbe cray-fish, and some flour and butter, and season ac- cording to your taste. CREAM, d l’Anglaise.*—'Take two yolks of eggs, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, two ounces of candied orange and lemon-peel, five ounces of blanched pistachio nuts, beat these all up in a mortar ; add to them a pint of good milk, and boil them over a gentle fire, stirring it frequently to prevent its burning. When done, add five or si.t drops of orange-flower water, pour the whole on a dish, and set it over the fire till tbe edges are brown ; sprinkle sugar over, and salamander it. Cream, au Bain-marie.* — Mix up whatever ingredient of which the cream is to be made, with eggs and sugar; for the proportions, see the respective ar- ticles ; strain them through a fine sieve, f and pour the preparation into a mould [ lightly buttered within side. Put this I mould into a large saucepan, with a suf- I ficient quantity of boiling water to reach t witliin an inch of the mould; place the saucepan on hot'ashes, cover it, and place hot coals on the lid; renew the fire underneath occasionally, so as to k«p the water at the same temperature, that is, nearly, but never quite, boiling for an hour and a half; then, if the cream ts properly set, which may be known by( 189 ) C R E C RE touchingit with yotir finger, and observ- ing wliether it may be easily detached from the mould, take it from the bain- marie and let it stand; when no more than lukewarm, turn it out on your dish. It sometimes happens, unavoidably, that bubbles arise on the surface of the cream; in such a case, boil a glass of cream, and add to it, by degrees, three yolks of eggs; stir it constantly with a wooden spoon ; mix three ounces of fine sugar with it, and continue stirring it over the fire, till of a proper consistence, and on the point of boiling, then take it off and strain it. When the cream is ready for table, cover it completely with the last made cream, which will bide its defects. Cream Biscuits. — Break six eggs, separate the yolks and whites, beat the former with six ounces of powder-sugar, and the same of flour; whisk the whites, and then mix them together ; add to it whipped cream, in proportion to the sugar and flour, stir it carefully, pour this into moulds or paper cases, and bake. Cream Biscuits.*—Take six ounces of flour, two of powder-sugar, a pound and a half of cream, and the whites of twelve eggs; beat up the latter with the sugar and flour; whip the cream, and lay it on a sieve. When well drained, mix them together, and put the prepa- ration into cases, and bake in the usual way. Cream Biscuits.*—Put the yolks of three eggs into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, on which has been rasped the zeste of a small cedrat; beat them up for about ten minutes, and then whip the whites and mix them gra- dually with the yolks, an ounce and a half of dry sifted flour, and four spoons- ful of whipped cream. When these in- gredients are well mixed and smooth, pour the paste into about a dozen small cases, glaze the tops of them with sifted sugar; when that is melted, put the biscuits into a gentle oven, and bake them for twenty, or five and twenty mi- nutes. Cream, Burnt.—Set on the fire in a stewpan two table-spoonsful of clarified sugar, leave it on till it begins to burn and get brown; then shake it about, and put in an ounce ofratafia biscuit, a small piece of lemon-peel, sugar, and orange- flower; stir it together; then put in a pint of new milk, boiled; when it has simmered by the side of the stove for twenty minutes, beat up four eggs, and the yolks of two, in a stewpan ; take the milk Irom the fire, and mix with it half a pint of good tliick cream, then the eggs, which rub through a tammy, and repeat it a second time. Rub some small moulds with clarified butter, and fill them with cream ; have a large stew- pan on the fire with a very little water at the bottom, when it boils gently, put in your cream, and cover it close, with fire laid upon the cover (if you think proper, it may be put into one large mould).— When done, take them out of the water, wipe them, and turn them on a dish. Cream Caite.*-Put a pound of flour upon a pie-board ; make a hole in the middle, put in half a pint of clotted cream, and a little salt; mix the paste lightly, let it stand for half an hour, then add half a pound of butter; roll it out, five times, the same as puff-paste, and form it into small cakes; gild them with the yolk of egg, and bake in an oven. Cream Cakes.—Sift some double-re- fined sugar; beat the whites of seven or eight eggs ; shake in as many spoonsful of the sugar; grate in the rind of a large lemon; drop the froth on a paper,_laid on tin, in lumps at a distance; sift a good deal of sugar over them ; set them in a moderate oven ; the froth will rise ; just colour them ; you may put raspberry jam, and stick two bottoms together; put them in a cool oven to dry. Cream Cakes.*—Put into a stewpan, two glasses of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, the rind of a lemon, cut small, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and a pinch of salt. Set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil, put it by the side of the stove; take out the lemon- peel, and add, by degrees, as much flour as the liquid will bear ; keep stir- ring it constantly, and place it on the fire again, for five minutes, then pour it into a basin ; add to it, one by one, as many eggs as will make the paste stick to the fingers; put the paste on a slab, and make your cakes of a round form. Crea.m au Caramel.*—Put a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, with a bit of cinnamon, some coriander-seeds, and the peel of a young lemon, into a sauce- pan, and hoil them for a quarter of an hour; then take it off the fire; and boil a q^uarter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, until it becomes of a nice dark colour; take it off' the fire, and mix with the cream ; then put it on the fire again, until the sugar and cream are well mixed together; then place a saucepan, with some hot water in it, over het ashes ; take a dish, in which you in- tend serving, and pour into your cream, then place it in the saucepan ; put on the lid of the saucepan, with fire above, and let it boil till the cream is set. Serve hot.C R E C RE ( 190 ) Cream au Caramel au Bain Marie.* —Boil half a pound of sugar to caramel; pour a quarter of it into the bottom of a mould which has been buttered, and which must be placed on hot ashes, to allow the sugar to extend over the bottom of the mould ; dissolve the remainder of the caramel sugar with a glass of boiling water. When dissolved, mix it with five glasses of boiling milk, and afterwards with one whole egg, and ten yolks, aquar- ler of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix them together by degrees. Finish your preparation according to the direc- tions. See Cream au Bain Marie. Cream au Caramel Jlnisc au Bain Marie.*—Infuse a drachm of green, and the same of starred anise, in five glasses of boiling milk; keep jt covered ; and in the mean while boil six ounces of sugar, to caranael, which must then be dissolv- ed in a glass of boiling water. When the in- fusion is nearly cold, pour it to the sugar, and then mix both with ten yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a grain of salt. Stir it well, and then proceed in the usual way. See Cream au Bain Marie. Cream d la Cardinale.*—Vom\& the shells of thirty boiled cray-fish; put them into some butter; mix them well together, till the whole is a fine red colour ; then pour on it a pint of boiling cream or milk (with a little sugar in it); boil them together for a quarter of an hour; pass it three times through a sieve; put to it the gizzards of two chickens; boil it for five minutes, to set it. Cream au Chapelet.—Boii a pint of cream, to reduce it to half, with lemon- peel, cinnamon, coriander-seed, sugar, and the skin of a fowl’s gizzard, chopped ; strain it; prepare a border for the dish, with some pounded chocolate, a spoonful of gum-dragon, melted thick, and sifted through a cloth; put fine sugar to it until it becomes a hard paste; roll bits of it into balls ; put them to dry, and garnish the dish round with them. The cream must be finished to your own taste ; the balls are joined together with caramelled sugar in the form of crosses, or any other, and made to stand up round the cream. Cream (Clotted).—Take four quarts of new milk, from the cow, and put it in a broad earthen pan, and let it stand till the next day; then put it over a very slow fire for half an hour; make it nearly hot to cream, then put it away till it is cold, and lake the cream off, and beat it smooth with a spoon. Cream {Clotted).—TaVc. two quarts of new milk, a pint of cream, and three spoonsful of rose-water. Put these to- gether into a large pan: set it over a charcoal fire, but not too not; let it stand twenty-four hours, and when you take it oir, loosen the edge of the cream round about with a knife; then take your board, lay the edges that are left beside the board; cut them into pieces, and put them into the dish first; then scrape sugar over them; take off' the cream with your boai'd as clean from the milk as you can, and lay it in the dish, and strew sugar over it. Cream (Clotted).—String four blades of mace on a thread; put them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonsful of rose- water ; simmer a few minutes; then by degrees stir this liquor, strained into the yolks of two new eggs, well beaten. Stir the whole into a quartof wery good cream, and set it over the fire; stir it till hot, but not boiling; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruit. Some persons prefer it without any flavour but that of cream ; in which case use a q^uart of new milk and the cream, or do it like the Devonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the coun- try they call the ring; and when that is seen, remove the pan from the fire. Cream Codling—Pare and core twenty codlings ; beat them in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; strain it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine to it. Stir it well. Cream (Cold).—Take a pint of rhenish wine, and a good deal of fine sugar ; beat fine a quart of good cream, and a lemon cut round, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and a sprig of rosemary ; pour them all together; let them stand a while; and beat them up with a rod till tliey rise; take it off with a spoon as it rises: lay it in a pot or glass, and then serve. Cream dte Commissaire.*—Bone, and pound the meat of a roasted partridge, moistening it with a little consomme or veal gravy: then mix with it the yolks of six eggs, salt, pepper, and spice, in powder; rub the whole through a sieve into a dish, and cook it in the iain marie. Cream {Crackling). — Beat up the yolks of as many eggs as will be suffi- cient for the quantity of cream you wish to make, pouring in milk as you beat them; then put in some rasped sugar and lemon-peel; set the dish upon a furnace, and keep continu.ally stirring till the cream begins to be made; slacken your fire ; stir the cream without inter-C RE C R E ( 191 ) mission, turning it to the sides of the dish, till very little or none remains at the bottom, and that a border may be made round them, taking great care that it is not burnt. When it is ready, heat the fire-shovel red hot, and give it a fine colour; and with the point of a knife loosen the whole border, that it may re- main entire. Then let it be put again into the same dish, and let it be dried in the oven, that very little may be left in the dish, and it will crackle in the mouth. Cream Croquante*—Take a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, the peel of a lemon grated, orange-flower water, four pounded macaroons; boil these until re- duced to half; then add two ounces of powder-sugar; put into another sauce- pan the yolks of eight eggs, on which, pour the cream, a little at a time; put it on the fire, and stir it constantly until the cream is set; then spread it on a baking tin, keeping it about the_ thick- ness of a crown piece; place the tin on a trivet over the fire, and pass a salamander over the surface of the cream to dry it. When that is done, cut your cream into pieces of whatever form you may think proper; lay them on a dish, and put them in the oven till they crisp. Serve either hot or cold. Cream (Snow). — Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon- peel ; whip it to a froth; remove the peel, and serve ip a dish. CREAM(C?<rrf).—Take apintof cream; boil it with a little mace, cinnamon, and rose-water, to make it sweet; when it is as cold as new milk, put in about half a spoonful of good rennet, and when it curds, serve it in a cream dish. Cream Custard.—Grate extremely fine the crumb of a penny loaf, and put it into a quart of cream, with half a pound of fresh butter, and the yolks of a dozen eggs; put to them as much sugar as you please, then let it thicken over the fire ; make the custards shallow, an d when they have stood half an hour in a slow oven, j grate some loaf-sugar over them, and I serve, ' Cn.EAii(Devons/nre, or Scalded).—If in I the winter, the milk should stand for I four and twenty hours, but, if in the I summer, it should stand only for twelve; I then the milk pan should be placed upon a hot hearth, provided you have one, if ' not, it should be placed in a wide brass 1 kettle of water, large enough to receive ' the pan. It must remain on the fire till fpiite hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skim instead ef cream upon the milk. You will know when done enough, by the undulations on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan tire size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream, de- pends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire ; the slower the better. Re- move the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. Cream d I’Eau.*—Beat four eggs with a pint of water, the peel of a lemon, shred small, the juice of the same, and a quar- ter of a pound of powder-sugar. When well beaten, pass it two or three times through a napkin ; then put it in a dish, over a gentle hre, stirring till if, thickens; dish it hot, but it must be served cold. Cream (an excellent).—Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of lemon-juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant to the taste ; lay it on a sieve or in a form, and the next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes, the length of a finger, and about two thick; over which should be_ strewed sugar, or a little glaze, with isinglass. The edges of the dish maybe lined with macaroons. Cream of Flowers. * — Take roses, violets, jessamine, pinks, and orange- flowers; pound them, adding a little warm milk: press them in a clean cloth, and mix them with a pint of well-boiled cream; add the yolks of six eggs, and sugar; strain, and put it into a dish; then place the dish on hot ashes ; cover and lay more coals on the top, and let it stand till thick, when it should be set to cool. Cream Franqaise au Caramel Anise.* —Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel height, and when taken from the fire, mix with it two drachma of green, and two of starred anise. When cold, dis- solve it with a glass of boiling water ; add gradually the yolks of eight eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, four glasses of nearly boiling milk, and a grain of salt. The cream is then made according ro the directions for Cacao Cream a la hranqaise. Cream Franqai.se ait Marasquin.*— Bod four glasses of milk, and tlien mix It l»y degrees with the yolks of eight eggs, ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt; put these ingredients into a sauce- pan over a moderate fire, stirring con- stantly ; when it begins to simmer, strain It; add six drachms of isinglass to it: as soon as it is cold, put in half a glass of( 192 ) C R E C R E good marascliino.and complete the opera- tion according to direction. See Cacao Cream u la l<‘ran(;aise. You may vary tliis recipe, by putting in half a glass of arrack or rum, instead of the maraschino. Cream Francaise an Varfait Amour.* —Take ten ounces of lump-sugar, and rasp on it the zestes of two lemons and a cedrat; scrape the sugar as usual, and put it into five irlasses of nearly boiling milk, with ten cloves, bruised ; cover it, and when nearly cold, add, a few at a time, the yolks of eight eggs, and a grain of salt. Thicken the cream over a mo- derate fire, and finish it as directed. See Cacao Cream d la Franqaise. Cream/<Va«eawe aux Qtiatre Zestes.* —Take a piece of sugar weighing ten ounces ; upon which rasp, in the usual way, the zestes of a lemon, a cedrat, a sweet and a Seville orange; infuse the scraped sugar in five glasses of nearly boiling milk; cover it, and when no more than lukewarm, pour into it by degrees the yolks of eight eggs, with a grain of salt. Finish as directed. See Cacao Cream d la Fran^aise. Cream Fried.*—Boil half a pint ef milk with the peel of a lemon; put to two eggs as much flour as they will take up; then add four more eggs, and the boiling milk without the lemon-peel ; mix it well that there may be no lumps ; set it over the fire, stirring it constantly ; in a quarter of an hour add a little salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a few drops of orange flower-water; finish boiling it, <md then add the yolks of four eggs, two bitter ma- caroons, and some marchpane crushed very small; pour this preparation on a buttered tin, spread it out for about an inch in thickness, and when cold, cut it into lozenges, circles, or such other forms as you may like better} dip them in an omelet, cover them with bread- crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them well, sprinkle powder sugar over, and serve them. Cream Fried.*—gradually into a stewpan about three spoonsful of flour, with six egBS, (the whiles and yolks also) a little grated lemon-peel, some dried orange flowers shred fine, a pir:t of milk, a small lump of sugar, and a few grains of salt; boil the whole over n slow fire, for half an hour, keeping constantly stir- ring ; wlien the cream is very thick, spread it about the thickness of half an inch upon a floured dish, and shake some flour over it; when cold, you may cut it into anv form you please, and fry in a very hot pan; glaze with sugar and a .salamander. Cream Fried, d la Parisienne.* — Make your cream, with the addition of six eggs, exactly the same as cream au lain marie; when quite cold, cut it into pieces of whatever form you may chuse, either round, square, oval, &c., but do not make them above two inches long, or three quarters of an inch thick. Make a batter as follows; put three quarters of a pound of sifted flour into a pan, pour on it a little water, in which two ounces of butter liave been melted; hold the saucepan slanting, and blow the water aside, so as to pour the, butter in first; then add a sufficient quantity of water to make your batter of a proper consistence; when it will flow and quit the spoon readily, put in a pinch of salt, and the whites of two eggs whipped firm. Make your frying-pan quite hot, dip your cream into the batter, and fry it of a good colour ; drain the pieces, sprinkle them with powder sugar, and glaze ibem with the salamander. Any of the flavoured creams au lain marie, may be dressed in this manner. Instead of frying the cream in batter as above, you may bread them as follows ; having beaten half a dozen eggs, dip in. them each piece of cream, drain, and then mask them with bread crumbs, grated very small; dip them a second time in egg, and bread them again,taking care to preserve the form; fry, sprinkle with sugar, and glaze them as the first mentioned. Creaji Fried a la Paiissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs, two spoonsful of sifted flour, three glasses of boiling milk, and a pinch of salt; make your cream in the usual way, (see Cream Paiissiere;) then add a quarter of a )>ound of good butter, the same of powder sugar, of sweet and bitter macaroons, a spoonful of orange-flowers pralinecs. Pour your cream on a buttered baking-plate, and when cold, cut it in pieces, and fry it as fried cream d la Parisienne. Cream Fritters.*—Mix a handful of flour, with three whole eggs, .and the yolks of six, four pounded macaroons, some tlried orange flowers, browned in suvar, a little candied lemon-peel chop- ped very fine, h.alf a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and a lump of sugar; boil the whole over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour, till the cream terns to a thick paste; then let it cool in a dish well floured, shaking flour all over it. When cold, cut the paste into small nieces, roll them in your bands tiil they become round, and try them of a good colour; when you serve them, powder them all over with sugar. * ~ , Cream Friticrsd la Danpltnc. —Take( 193 ) C RE C R E , tlie tliird part of any cream pStissiere i you please, and havinjj rolled out the J brioche paste, place on it, when cold, the ■ cream in small pieces, cut the fritters, and finish them in the usual way. (See ! Fritters ei la Dauphine.) Cream Froth.*—PvlI a pint of fresh double cream into a stone pan, with half ' a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of gum ■ dragon, a little crisped orange-flower, I and three drops of cedrat essence; when li the sugar is dissolved, place the pan in another, in which is three pounds of ice beaten up with saltpetre; whip the cream in the usual manner, taking off the froth as it rises with a skimmer, lay i it gently on a sieve over a pan; if the ! creatn does not froth properly, add the ' whites of tw^o eggs. This cream is usual- j ly served in large silver or gilt goblets, ! and should be prepared two or three j hours before it is wanted. Cream German.* — Boil a pint of Rhenish wine, some sugar, and cinna- 1 mon, for half an hour; then add to it the yolks of eight eggs, well beaten and 1 strained ; mix them well, and cook it in the bain marie. Cream Glazed.*—Put a small handful of flour into a stewpan, with some lemon- ^ peel, chopped very small, some orange- I flowers, dried and pounded, and a lump of sugar; then beat up the yolks of eight . eggs, with a pint of cream, and half a I pint of milk, keeping the whites by them- j selves; mix the yolks well together in i the stewpan, with the flour and other in- • gredients, and let them boil gently for I lialf an hour; when the cream is thick- ( ened, take it off the fire, and whip the I whites of the eggs till they are well ) frothed; then add them to the cream, : and pour the whole into the dish for , table ; strew sugar all over the cream ; : put the dish into an oven of a moderate lieat, and when the cream rises well, and is glazed, serve. To make it rise, the ^ dish should be covered with the lid of a saucepan, upon which fire should be placed. Cream Hasty.—Take a gallon of milk, warm from the cow, set it on the fire, I and when it begins to rise, take it off the j fire, and set it by; skim ofl all the ‘ cream, and put it into a plate; then set the skillet over the fire again, and repeat the skimming till your plate is lull of cream ; put to it sorne orange-flower, and sugar, and so serve it. Cream Imperial.— Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon ; then stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in, the juice of three lemons strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream, which pour into the dish frorn a large teapot, bolding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it is served, and will be still better if a day. Cream Imperial.—a quart of water, six ounces of hartshorn; put them into a stone bottle, and tie it close down, do not fill it too full, and put it into a pot of boiling water, or in an oven to bake; let it stand three or four hours, strain it through ajellybag,and let it cool; having ready six ounces of almonds beat very fine, put to them as mtich cream as jelly; mix them together, strain the almonds and cream, and set altogether oyer the fire till it is scalding hot; strain it into narrow bottom glasses, let them stand a whole day, and then turn them out; stick them all over with blanched al- monds, or pine-apple seeds laid in water a day before you peel them, and they^ will come out like a flower; then stick them on the cream. Cream Italian..*—Boil a pint and a half of milk in a stewpan, then add to it the peel of a young lemon, some corian- der seed, a bit of cinnamon, ralher more than half a quarter of a pound of sugar, and two or three grains of salt; let it boil till half is consumed ; then let it stand to cool, and have ready in another stew- pan a little flour, beat up with the yolks of six eggs ; stir it by degrees into the cream; strain it through a sieve, and put it in the dish for table, placing the dish in some hot water over the fire till the cream is set. Before serving, brown with a salamander. Cream Italian.*—Pat a gill of good fresh cream, two eggs, three spoonsful of powder sugar, and a little orange- flower water, into a pan, and whip them up together; and when the cream is sufficiently thick, put it into a deep dish, with plenty of powder sugar; set it on hot ashes, cover it, and lay hot ashes on the top, which must be renewed until the cream is done enough; then let it cool, and serve it. Cream (to /ceep). — CrcHm already skimmed, may be kept twenty-four hours, if scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good for two days, keeping in a cool place. Cream Light.*—Take a pint and a halt of milk, some sugar, lemon-peel, and orange-flower water; boil the whole together till reduced to half tlie quantity ; then take it oil' the fire, and let it coot; in the meantime, beat up a spoonful of flour with the yolks of six eggs, (keeping the whites separate).C R E ( I C RE 4 ) and Kradually mix the yolks with the cream : strain tlie cream Ihrnugii a sieve, and put the vessel which contains it, in some boiling water over the fire ; when the cream is set, take the vessel out of the hot water, beat up the whites of your eggs to a froth,add to them some powdered sugar, and cover the cream with the whites of eggs, in the form of a dome; then bake it under a lid that will admit fire at the top; let the heat be moderate, and serve your cream of a fine colour. CnEAS! Loaf.—Take the crumb out of a good large round roll, rasped; and soak the ciust a little while in milk, sugar and lemon; then drain, and fill it up with frungipane cream, and stop it up with pieces of bread ; put a little into the bottom of the dish in which you serve, the roll upon it, and put cream all over, with powder sugar ; bake it in a pretty hot oven to give it a fine brown colour. Cream d la Madeleine.*—Beat up four eggs (whites and yolks togetiierj with a pinch of flour, a little grated lemon-peel, a small piece of pounded cinnamon, some bitter almond biscuits pounded, half a spoonful of orange-flower water, a pint of cream, two ounces of sugar, and a little salt. Place a dish over some hot ashes, then pour in the ingredients well mixed together, and as soon as the cream thickens, glaze, it, and serve. Cream Maiden.— Take the whites of ten eggs, whip them to a froth ; put them into a saucepan, with milk, orange- flower water and sugar. Set a plate over a stove, put in a little cinnamon, beat up your cream well, and pour it into the plate. Then brown it with a red hot shovel, and serve. Cream at< Take some fresh thin cream, and put it in a bowl, on ice, to coni it; add to it powder sugar and serve it. Creaji Pancakes.—Put the yolks of two eggs into half a pint of cream, with two OBiices of sugar, and a little, heaten cinnamon, mace and nutmeg; mix the whole well together, and then fry them very carefully. Cream Pdtissiere. — Put a pint of cream and the same of milk cn the fire, stirring constantly till it boils ; then add two ounces of sugar, a little salt and the rinti of a lemon; when the cream is snfliciently flavoured with the i)eel, beat up the yolks of eight eggs, mix them with the cream, and continue to stir it over the lire with a wooden spoon. As soon as it is very thick pour it into a sieve, and press it through with the spoon, and then set it by for tise. More eggs nipst be added if not thick enough for your purpose. Cream Patissiere.*—Put the yolks of six eggs and two spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, mix them together with a spatula; add, a little at a time, three glasses of boiling cream and a grain of salt; put the whole on a moderate fire, stirring it round gently until it begins to stick to the spoon ; then remove it for a short time, still stirring; ns soon as it is of the proper consistence replace it on the fire, and continue to stir it the same w.ay for ten or twelve minutes. After this heat a quarter of a pound of the best fresh butter, keep stirring and skimming until it ceases to hiss, then leave it to colour lightly, and when it is suffi- ciently so, mix it with the cream, and pour it into a pan, in which it must be incorporated with whatever ingredient may be desired. Cream Paiissiereand Chocolate Cus- tard.* — Throw three quarters of a pound of chocolate, and a clove of vanilla into twelve glasses of milk; cover it, and in a quarter of an hour pass the milk through a napkin ; put a few spoonsful of the infusion to the cho- colate which remains in the napkin, and pour them into a small pan. Then put tliree quarters of a potind of flour into a large saucepan, with four whole egtrs, and the yolks of twelve; pour the infu- sion in by degrees, with a very little salt; set it on a moderate fire, anti stir it constantly. As soon as it begins to thicken, take it from the fire to prevent its becoming lumpy'; add to it half a pound of powder sugar, six ounces of butter, ana dry it for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. When it is a little cooled, put the chocolate and six ounces of sweet macaroons crushed. This preparation should be of the consistence of cream patissiere; if not, add a few spoonsful of whipped cream; whip the twelve whites of the eggs pretty firm; mix them with the preparation ; then pour it into a raised crust, and finishasu.su.il. Cream an Par/ait yiniour, an Bain Marie.*—Take ten.<ounce.s of lump- sugar, and raspon it tlie rinds ofa lemon and a cedrat; throw the sugar scraped ofl'into six glasses of boiling milk, with ten clove.s; cover it close, and when nearly cold, mix it by degrees with ten yolk.s, and one whole egg, and strain it. Finish the cream as directed. See Cream au Bain Marie. Cream Pompadour.—Take the whue.s of five eggs, and after Ireatiog them into .1 strong froth, put them into a tos,sing pan, with two ounces of sugar, and two spoonsful of <>ranKe-flo" or water; stir it gently three minutes, (tour it into a di.'-h, I and melted butter over it; serve it hot. IC R E ( 195 ) C 11 E Crbam Posset. — Tiike twelve eggs, leaving oiu two or three whites, take out all the treads, and beat them well into the basin you make the posset in ; add half a pound of sugar, a pint of sack, and a nutmeg grated; stir it on a dialling dish of coals till it is more than blood warm ; lake a quart of sweet cream; when it boils pour it into a basin, cover it with a warm plate and a cloth; then set it on a dialling dish of embers till it is as thick as you wish, and strew on some fine cinnamon. Cream of any Preserved Fruit.—Take half a pound of the pulp of any preserved fruit, put it in a large pan, put to it the whites of two or three eggs, beat toge- ther well for an hour; take it ofi' with a spoon, and lay it heaped on a dish, or glass salver, with other creams, nr put it in the middle of a basin. Raspberries will not do this way. Cream R/ienisti.—Put over the fire a pint of Rhenish wine, a stick of cinna- mon, and half a pound of sugar; while this is boiling, take seven yolks and whites of eggs, beat them well together with a whisk, till your wine is half driven in them, and your eggs to a syrup ; strike it very fast with the whisk, till it comes to such thickness that you may lift it on the point of a knife, but be sure not to let it curdle ; add to it the juice of a lemon, and orange-flower water; pour it into your dish ; garnish it with citron, sugar, or biscuit, and serve. Cream Rtienis/i.—Cut two call’s feet very small, put them into a saucepan, with two quarts of water, a stick of cin- namon, and a little lemon-peel; boil the.m gently till they are reduced to less than a quart; strain it, and skim oH' the fat; put it into a stewpan, with a little lemon-peel, a few coriander seeds, a little saflron, and two bay-leaves; sweeten it according to your taste with fine su- gar, and let it boil up ; beat up the yolks of eight eggs very fine, take the cream oft'the fire, andstir in the eggs well; put it over the fire a moment, taking care that it does not boil: strain it through a sieve, put hi a gill of Rhenish wine ; stir it till it is half cold, then put it into moulds ; when it is cold, turn it out into a dish, and garnish according to taste. Cream (Royal) Ices.—Take any quan- tity of cream, add to it yolks of eggs in proportion (tliat is, four yolksof eggs to every pint of cream) put a little lialf pounded coriander, cinnamon, orange Or lemon-peel; add some pounded lump sugar, and set it on the fire till it nearly boils; then pass it through a sieve, and put it to ice. Cream Sclbalotie dVIlalie7mc.*—T».\:e. the yolks of twelve new laid eggs, lout- glasses of Madeira, six ounces ol lump sugar, and a pinch of powdered cinna- mon. Put the whole into a saucepan, and set it over a quick fire, milling it the same as you would chocolate, till the whole saucepan is filled with froth ; then serve the cream, as quickly as possible, in custard or jelly glasses. Cream Sac/:.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonsful of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gen- tle fire till it becomes as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses with longpiecesofdry toast. Cream, Sa?e.—Take two quarts of cream, boil it well; then put to it half a pint of the juice of red sage : a pint of white wine, a quarter of a pint of rose water, and a pound of sugar. Cream Sawee.*—Put into a stewpan a little butter, a little parsley, a few green onions, and shalots, all cut small; add one clove of garlic whole ; turn the sauce a few times over the fire ; then add some flour, and moisten with cream or milk; let the vvhole boil for a quarter of an hour, strain oft' the sauce, and when you want it for use, put in a little but- ter, some parsley just scalded and chop- ped fine, salt, whole pepper; then thicken the sauce over the fire. This may be used with all kinds of dishes that are done white. Cream Sauce.— Put a dozen fine white mushrooms into a stewpan, with two or three stalks of parsley, a bit of butter, and a little salt; stir them over a moderate fire, and when the butter be- gins to fry and look clear, shake in a little flour, but be careful not to make it too thick; then add some good consomnU, and reduce it to the thickness of becUa- melle sauce; then add cream, and pass it through a tammy. Cream Sauce.*—Put into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert spoonful of flour, a tea-spoonlul of pars- ley, and the same of scallions, both chop- ped small; a pinch of salt, a little coarse pepper, and a nutmeg grated ; mix these well, and then add a glass of cream or milk : set it on the fire, and stir it till it boils ; if it be too thick, add .a little more cream; this sauce should boil, and be kept Stirling for a quarter of an hour. Cream (//-7i?fe) Sherbet.*— Put the. yolks of six eggs, and a dessert spoonful of orange-flower water or crisped orange flowers in powder, into two quarts of cream, and boil it up once in .a covered S2C RE ( 196 ) C R E saucepan; then pass it through a sieve, add to it three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and as soon as it is pcr- lectly dissolved, pour the whole inio a sorbeliiire, which place in an ice pail, and proceed to cool it as directed. See S/u rbet. Cream, Snow.—Mix a quart of cream with the whites of six eggs, sweeten it with sugar and rose water, and strain them; then heat up the cream with a bundle of reeds tied together, or with a whisk; and as the snow rises take it up ^yith a spoon in the cullender, that the liquid part may run out: when you have taken off as much of the snow as you please, boil the rest of the cream, with a stick of cinnamon, some cloves, and a little bruised ginger; boil it till it is thick; strain it, and wlien it is cold, put it into a dish, and lay your snow upon it. Cream, Snow.*—Take a pint of fresli cream, and mix with it eight spoonsful of powder-sugar, the whites of two eggs, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, or any other aromatic ingredient you like belter; whip it, and remove the froth or snow in the usual way. This cream may be coloured according to your fancy, with saffron, carmine, or indigo. Cream, Spanish.—Take three spoons- ful of rice flour, sifted very fine, the yolks of three eggs, three spoonsful of fresh water, two spoonsful of orange- flower water, and mix them well to- gether ; then put to it one pint of cream; set it on a good fire ; keep it stirring till it is of a proper thickness, and then pour it into cups. Cream, Sweetmeat.—Take some good cream, and slice some preserved peaches, apricots, or plums, into it; sweeten the cream with fine sugar, or with the syrup the fruit was preserved in ; mix all well together, and put into your basin. Cream {Syrup o/).—May be preserved the same as cream (^ee receipt for keep- ing cream), in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of per- fectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place for two or three liours ; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus lor several weeks, and will be found very useful in voyages. Cream Tart.—Put into a sfewpan two spoonsful of fine flour, with the yolks of six eggs, reserving the whites of them. Mix the flour in a quart of milk, and .sea- son it with sugar and a stick of cinn.a- mon; keep it stirring with a ladle, and put in a good lump of sugar ; the cream being half done, put in some grated lemon-pec), some preserved lemon-peel, shred small, and some hitter almond- biscuits ; let the, whole be thorougldy done; when ready, let it lie cold, then lit an under crust of puff-paste in a akingpan, with a border of paste, and put your cream over it; mix it with some orange-flower water, and the whites of egg.s, heat up to a froth : take care not to over-fill your custard; and let it be done, either in the oven, or under the cover of a baking pan, with fire under and over. When ready, and glazed with sugar, serve it up hot. Cream Taffaty.—Beat the whites of eight eggs with rose-water, to a froth; put them into a quart of thick cream, skimming it as it rises; boil it, and keep it cuntinaally stirring. _ Then having beaten up the yolks of eight eggs, take your cream off the fire, and slip in the eggs; stir them in. Sweeten with sugar. Cream Toast. — Take a pound of French rolls, slice them, crumb and crust, as thick as your finger; lay them in a silver dish; put to them half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pint of milk; tlien strew sugar and lieaten cinnamon over them; turn them often till they are soaked tender, but not so tender but you may- turn them without breaking; then lake them from the cream with a slice or skimmer; break three or four raw eggs; turn the slices of bread in the eggs, and fry them in clarified butter, till they are of a good brown colour, taking great rare not to burn or black them ; scrape a littlesugar round them. Drainihem well from the butter in which tkey were fried, and serve them hot for a second couise. Cream, Toiirte d 1'Anglaise.*—Pre- pare a crust in the usual way, and fill it with a pretty firm cream pdfissicre, mixed with two ounces of currants, two ounces of raisins, stoned, an ounce of cedrat, cut into dice, a little crisped orange-flower, the rind of a lemon, grated on some sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, grated, and half a glass of white wine. When filled, bake it like other tourtes, and serve it hot. Cream Tourte with Spinach.*— and blanch about two haiidsful of spinach; chop it very small, and put it into a saucepan, with three ounces of butter; stir it over a moderate fire, and when all the water is evaporated, add four spoons- ful of cream pdtissierc, half a glass of double cream, three ounces of powder- sugar, two of bitter mvcar.rons crushed, a little crisped orange-flower, and n grain of salt. Mix these ingredients together well, and pour it into a crust prepared in the usual wav; mask the top of the cream with filberts, blanched and mixedC R E ( 1S7 ) C R O with a spoonful of powder-sugar. Bake, and serve it hot. CaEAM au Pin*—Mix the yolks of eight eggs with a proper quantity of powder sugar; to which add hy degrees a bottle of Frontignac, or any otlier sweet and aromatic wine; stir it const.antiy ; put into the bain marie, and keep jt stirring until the cream is set, and suffi- ciently done. Cream, fVhite or Natural.—Take a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and a bit of sugar; boil them together till they are redaced to one-third, and when the milk is sufficiently cool that you can bear your finger in it, dilute a little rennet with water, in a spoon : mix it well with the cream, and strain the whole through a sieye ; then take the dish in which you intend serving, and set it over some hot cinders; pour in the cream; cover it with a lid that will admit fire uponit; and when the cream is set, put it in a place to cool. Serve cold. CiiEAM, IVkipped.—Take a pint of thick cream, put it in a basin or stevvpan, and beat it up with a whisk to a strong froth, then mix in a little powder-sugar, and orange-flower water ; serve it in a small basket made with paste, and garnish round with sweet rusks. If your cream should not soon froth, as sometimes it will not, be careful that you do not beat it to butter. Cream, fVhipped.*—Put into a pan a quart of good double cream, which has been kept for two hours in pounded ice ; add to it a little gum-dragon in powder, and whisk the cream for at least a quar- ter of an hour, when it will have become properly frothed. Lay it on a napkin to drain thoroughly, and then mix it care- fully with six ounces of powder-sugar; and the instant before you send it to table, add to it whatever you intend to flavour it with. Serve your cream in a raised tart-crust, or iced vol au vent, and orna- mented with a sultane; or it may be placed on layers of almond-paste, or simply in a silver dish. Cream, fytiipped.* — Put some good cream, with a proportionate quantity of powder-sugar, a pinch of gum-dragon, and a little orange-flower water, into a pan ; whip it to a froth, with an osier whisk ; as the froth rises, let it stand an instant, and then take it off gently with a skimmer, and place it on a dish like a pyramid ; garnish your dish with green lemon or orange chips, and serve it. Cream {fPltipped), au Caramel.* — Boil six ounces of sugar to caramel, and when it has acquired the proper reddish- yellow tinge, dissolve it in half a glass of boiling water, over hot ashes; after which, it^must be reduced to a rather thick syrup. When cold, mix it with the whipped cream in the usual way. See IVhipped Cream. To this may be added the flavour of any ingredients you desire, by putting a small quantity of it into the sugar, the moment it attains its proper colour : for instance, a spoonful of starred anise, orange flowers, pr«/wiee«, a dozen of bit- ter macaroons, or filberts, crushed, &e. Cream {fVhipped), Printanniere■*— Dilute two spoonsful of essence of spi- nach, strained by degrees, with half a glass of Italian maraschino ; pour this mixture, and six ounces of powder-sugar, to whipped cream as directed. See Whipped Cream. Instead of the liqueur, the zestes of a couple of lemons, a sweet or Seville orange, or cedrat rasped on sugar, may be used. Strawberries or raspberries may also be placed here and there on the cream. Cream {.Whipped) atix Q^iatre Zestes.* —Take six ounces of lump-sugar, and rasp on it the fourtli part of the zeste of a sweet, the same of a Seville orange, the same of a cedrat, and iialf the zeste of a lemon; scrape the sugar in the usual way, and then mix it witli your cream, whipped as directed. See Whipped Cream. CKOQUE en Bouches.*—These are large pieces of ornamental confectionary, formed of various materials, as gim- lleltes, croquignoles, genoises, 4'c., or of oranges, cut into quarters, chesniits, green nuts, &c., arranged within moulds according to fancy, and cemented to- gether with boiled sugar. Croquettes of Boiled il/eaL*—Mince some boiled meat very small ; add to it some sausage-meat, mashed potatoes, crumbs of bread, soaked in milk, and sweet herbs ; make them into a paste, and form it into little balls ; roll them in very fine raspings, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them with sauce piquante. Croquettes a la d'Estrecs.—Cse: the best putl-paste : roll it pretty thin, and cut It into different shapes, as fancy leads; hake it, and dress each piece upon a dish, in a handsome manner ; rub tliem with a little caramel, to make them stick as you place them; then put some cur- rant jelly all over tlie top, and make what flower or design you please, with nonpareils of different colours, round it. Croquettes d la Purisienne.''—Take a stick of vamllii, pound it with two ounces of sugar, and sift both tin ough a silk sieve ; mix it with seven ounces of sugar, well dried and pounded, and half S3C 110 C RO ( 198 ) a pound of fine sifted flour; then stir in the vvliites of four eirgs, whipped firm, and work the whole togetlier for some minutes. Heat two large baking-plates of cop- per, rub them over lightly with virgin wax; when they are cold, take a spoon- ful of the preparation, and lay it on the plate the same as the spoon-biscuits, taking care to lay them three quarters of an inch apart; when both plates are full, place them on stools, in the oven or stove; close the top, and lay embers over it, so that the croquettes may be as far removed from the fire as possible; let them remain in this state all night; the next morning put them into a mo- derate oven, and bake them fifteen cr twenty minutes; they should then quit the plate easily, and be of a clear reddish colour; remove them from the plates whilst hot. The croquettes may be flavoured ac- cording to your fancy. CROQUIGNOLES a la Chartres*— Blanch and pound five ounces of sweet, and three of bitter almonds, with a little white of egg; put half a pound of flour on your slab, make a hole in the middle, in vvhich pul the almonds, with half a pound of powder sugar, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt; make this into a paste, and roll it into strips about the size of your Anger; cut them into souare pieces, the bigness of a filbert, and roll tltem into little balls: place them on baking-plates, rubbed with wax ; dorez and bake them in a moderate oven: re- move them from the plates whilst hot, as, if sutt'ered to grow cold first, they will break to pieces. Cuoouignoles d la Franqaise.* — Break up half a pound of bitter maca- roons, so small as to be able to silt them; and having laid half a pound of sifted flour on your slab, and made a hole in the middle, put in the macaroons, with six ounces of powder-sugar, three yolks of eggs, three ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; make these ingredients into a paste, and form the croquignoles of the shape and size of olives ; dorez them lightly, and bake theiii in a gentle oven. These must be of a lighter colour than other croquigiioles. Instead of macaroons use any other in- gredients you please. CnocuioNOLES d'Office.* — Put into a pan half a pound of flour, a pound of powder-sugar, a little crisped orange- flower in powder, a bit of butter, about as big as a nut, and a little salt; moisten it with the whites of eggs ; your prepara- tion should be pretty firm ; put it into a sort of funnel, butter some baking-tins. and push the irroquignoles through in the form of buttons, cutting the paste with a knife dipped in white of egg; bake them in a moderate oven. Ckoquionolks uux iVu/b.es.*—Make a iiaste like Croquignoles a la Chartres, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, tind cut it into two equal parts, on one of which lay pralines, leaving proper spaces between each; moisten the other part lightly, and lay it over the pralines; press it down a little, and with an ova! paste-cutter, an inch and a half in length, and one inch in width, cutout thecr&y«/g-«ofef; press the edges together, and finish as Cro- quignoles a la Chartres. CnoQuiGXOLESfl la Heine,*—Are made in the same way as Croquettes a la Pa- risienne; but, instead of laying them like spoon biscuits, they should be formed into balls about the size of a fil- bert. CROUSTADE.*—Takealoaf of close texture, remove the crust, and cut the crumb round, to the size you may re- quire, and about four inches in height; form it to the shape of a cup or basin, aad cutting the outside according to your taste, put it into a pan with a pro- per quantity of butter, and brown it; when of a good colour, and very dry, drain and take out the inside, and fill it with such articles as you may requre. CaousTADE {Small) a la Btchamelle.* Line the number of custard moulds you may require, with a rich puti-paste, ad- ding a small quantity of flour; fill them up with the cuttings of the paste, and bake them in a brisk oven of a light- ish red colour. In the meanwhile cut some breast of fowl into small pieces, three quarters of an inch long, and a quarter wide, also cut some very black truffles, or champignon.s, into pieces the same size, flavoured with Cichamelle; place these in the 6am-marie, and when wanted, put some of this into each croustade, pour in a little bcchamelle, cover them and serve. Observe that the croustades must he opened the moment they aie taken from the oven. They may be filled with any other preparation you please. Croustades (Small) de Nouilic.* — Mix some paste d A’ot/i//e,with the yolks of twelve eggs, and when sufflciently rolled out, put it into a saucepan of boiling water j let it boil a few minutes, and then, having drained it, put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pinind of but- ter, and a little salt; in a little while pour the paste on a dish, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness. »V hen cold, turn it on the slab, and cut outCRU ( i: the crouslade of the size and form you may require; tlieii, having beaten up eigiit eggs, dip each crouslade into it, draining and rolling each, as you do them, in grated bread-crumbs; do this a second time, rolling them lightly on the slab to make them smooth, and fry them a good colour in a very hot pan. Open and fill them with such prepara- tions as you may think proper; cover, and serve them. CaouTEs ail Pot.*—Take some crusts of French bread, with very little crumb in them, cut them into thin slices, and lay them in a deep dish; pour over them some brotli and pot skimmings; then set the dish over the fire, until the bread is burnt to the bottom, or gratinee; then take tiiree outsides of a loaf, cutting out all the crumb, soak these in some skim- mings of broth ; season them with salt and pepper, and set them upright on the gi'utin; just before serving, drain them well, that the potage may be_ quite dry, and put some broth or stock in a sauce- tureen, and serve it. CaouTE au Pot.*—Take two French loaves, rasp them, take off the crusts, and cut the crumb in round slices, and put them into a stewpan with a spoonful of consomme; set the crusts over the fire to simmer, and then fry them in the fat taken from consomme; put the panada in a deep dish, with the crusts at the top; moisten them with the consomme fat,and set them on the fire, to make a gratiri for a quarter of an hour ; at the moment of serving, break six eggs over it, and serve it with a clarified consomme. CRUMPETS.—Make a pint of warm milk, a quarter of a pint of yeast broth, strained into a strong batter, with a suf- ficient quantity of flour; cover, and set it in a warm place to rise; tlien add a quarter of a pint of warm milk, an ounce of butter worked up in a little flour, but only flour enough to prevent the batter from being too thin ; in a quarter of an hour have the iron rings ready on a plate of iron over a stove; pour the batter into these rings, and bake them. CnuMPETS, or Pikelets.*—Set a sponge as for bread, excepting that half milk and half water must be used; and to every half quartern of flour, two eggs must be added; beat the eggs thoroughly. Bake them in rings as usual. CRUST {Short).— Pound, sift, and dry two ounces of white sugar; then mix it with a pound of well dried flour, rub- bing into it, so fine as not to be seen, three ounces of butter; then put the yolks of two eggs into some cream, and mix the whole into a smooth paste; roll it out thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. [)) cue Crust {Short, not sweet, hut rich).-— Mix into a stillish paste, using as little water as possible, six ounces of butter, with eight ounces of fine flour, (rubbing the butter well into the flour, before mix- ing it with the water) beat it well, and roll it thin. This crust is proper as well as the above, for tarts of fresh or pre- served fruits. Let it bake in a moderate oven. Crust, for Venison Pasfy. — Work into a paste with warm water, two pounds and a half of butter, a peck of fine flour, and four eggs ; work it smooth, and to a good consistence. The paste should be put round the inside, but not at the bottom of the dish ; let the cover be tolerably thick, to bear the long con- tinuance in the oven. CUCUMBERS, Blanquetteof.—VAXQ and stew your cucumbers in a little sauce tournee and sugar; then drain them. Reduce the liquor, and thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, and when wanted for table, put in the cucumbers. Cucumbers d la Bourgeoise.—Prepare and dish your cucumbers as a la creme ; in the meantime shred three or four onions very fine, and fry them in butter, till brown ; when so, and drained oft' from the butter, put them into a stew- pan to simmer by the side of the stove, with four table-spoonsful of consomme, and the same of sauce tournee; when re- duced to half the thickness, stir in a bit of butter, and one squeeze of lemon- juice ; salt, if required; pour this very hot over the cucumbers. Cucumber with Cream.*—Peel and cut into squares some small cucumbers, then put them into salt and water, first letting it boil up; when the cucumber becomes soft to the touch, take them’ out of the salt and water, and put them into cold water; let them drain in a cloth, make a thick sauce a, la creme; put the cucumbers into it, and serve. Cucumbers and Cream.* —- Cut the cucumbers the same as for Cucumber Sauce, and blanch them in salt and water; when tliey are tender, let them drain on a cloth till no water remains. Put a quarter of a pound of butter, three tea-spoonsful of flour, salt, pepper, and grated nutrneg; mix the whole together, and then add half a glass of cream, set them on the fire and let them boil up once ; if too thick, add more cream ; put in the cucumbers, and keep it hot till wanted; it must not boil. Cucumbers and Cream.*—Your cu- cumbers being pared, and tlic seeds taken out, cut them into dice, blanch, arid then put them into a saucepan with a little melted butter, parsley, and seal-200 cue cue lions, shred small, salt, pepper, morels, and good broth ; let them stew for some time over a gentle lire. When done, add the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, and a small piece of butter. To the sauce may be added a little verjuice, if you think proper. CucuMBEas d la Creme*—Pare and cut your cucumbers in small round or oval pieces, keeping them all as near of a size as you well can ; throw them into boiling water with a little salt in it; when they are soft, take them from the hot. and put them into cold water, and then drain them in a cloth; make a cream sauce, rather thick, into which put the cucumbers, and serve them. CucuntBERS tt la Creme.—Take four straight rough-coated cucumbers, taste each that it is not bitter; cut them in half, then in quarters, and with a sharp knife cut out the seeds, and pare oft' the skin, tossing them in water as you do them t have ready some good clarified butter, into which (when well drained from the water) put in your cu- cumbers ; let them try (turning them at times) till of a fine light colour, then lay them on a sieve to drain them from the butter; when free from fat, lay them .inastewpan to stew gently, with con- tomme enough to cover them, a very little sugar and salt, and a round paper over the whole ; when stewed nearly dry, lay them again on a sieve, then place them neatly on the dish, and pour over them some good cream sauce, and thicken with the yolk of one egg with a little cream, and serve very hot. Cucumbers, Dried.—Take some pre- served cucumbers, wash all the syrup from them, put them on sieves to drain, then into a stove, one day is enough for them to dry ; when dry, take then?, out and paper a box, and put them in, and lay a paper between every layer of cucumbers. Cucumbers, Essence of.—Take the parings from your cucumbers, and make a puree of ttiem with a little butter, which must be drained oft' as S'>on as melted, and the purie dilule<l with the sauce tournee, in which the cucumbers have been dressed, as for blanquette, (they being put to drain). When the puree is very thick, mix with it four spoonsful of veloute, \\\t\\ a little sugar, and then strain it. Toss up the scollops in it, and add a little thick cream, if not sufliciently white. Season it well, and serve it quite hot. CucU.MBERS, Farcies.* — Pare three good-sized cucumber.*, take out the seeds with a marrow-spoon, and fill up the mid- dle with farce cuite; put into astewpan some slices of bacon and veal, carrots, onions, a little thyme, and a bay-leaf, lay in the cucumbers,cover them with bacon, moisten them with stock, and let tlierh simmer for half an hour, then, if they are tender, lake them from the fire, dram, and dish them. Serve with a reduced espag7iole. CucuMBERsatr Blanc, Garniture of.*— Pare and cut your cucumbers into square pieces, and then trim them into the form of oyster-shells; blanch them with a little salt. When done, drain and then toss them up in a little butter ; add some sauce tournie, and thicken them with the yolks of eggs. Cucu.mbers auBrun, Garnitureof.*— Prepare the cucumbers as for blanc, then put the slices in a pan with water, salt, pepper, vinegar, and sliced onions, soak them in this for some hours, then drain and press them in a cloth; put them into a saucepan with butler, stock, and a bunch of sweet herbs; when done, put a little gravy to them and serve. They may also be fried in grated bacon, in which case they should be moistened with oil and vinegar. Cucujibers au Gras.*—Pare and take the seeds from your cucumbers, cut them into slices an inch thick, and throw them into cold water, then soak them in a glass of hot broth, and the same of vine- gar ; drain and dip them into batter, and fry them in lard. Glaze them with pow- der-sugar as you take them out of the pan. Cucumbers, Potage of*—Cut your cucumbers into small ova! pieces, blanch them for ten minutes, let them cool, and drain ; put some slices of bacon into a stewpan, then the cucumbers, cover them with bacon, and add carrots, onions, pepper, and two cloves ; let them stew thus for half an hour. Put some bread in the soup-dish, and pout- over it a suf- ficient quantity of stock or broth to soak it well, lay the cucumbers on it, pass tlie liquor through a sieve, take oft" the fat, and pour it on the potage. (iucuMBERS Lies. Potage of *—Pare and split two cucunioers into tour part.-s and having taken out the seeds, cut each quarter into round slices, as near of a size as possible ; put them into a stew- pan with a little salt to take out all the w.ater; then strain them through a cloth, and put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter; toss them up lightly, but not to colour them, then add a handful of .sorrel chopped fine, .and a pinch of cher- vil. Moisten it with some good stofk ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, ''hen ready for table, thicken it with three yolks of eggs, and a little cream, andcue ( 201 ) cue our it over your bread, wliich should ecut in pieces similar to the cucumbers. Cucu.MBEUs d la Poulelte.—PAve and slice the cucunaber.s, and having soaked tlie slices for half an hour in vinegar and salt; dry them in anapkin, and put them into a panwith two ounces of butter ; fry them over a brisk fire, sprinkle flour over, pour a little broth on them, and let them stand till reduced without breaking; then add a small quantity of chopped parsley, a little salt, the same of sugar, and three eggs; stew all together a little while, and serve hot. Pepper may be added according to taste. Cucumbers (lo Preserve).* — Make choice of those which are small, and not too old, put them into jars,' and pour over them a brine (to make the brine, take two thirds of water, and one of vine- gar, to several pounds of salt, according lothe quantityof brine you wish to make, a pound to three pints; put it over the fire till the salt is melted, let it stand to settle, and before you use it, pour it off clear); when you wish to use them, take the rind off, and dress them in the same way as the fresh cucumber. Cucumbers, Preserved. — Split and take the seeds from the number of cu- cumbers you intend to use; lay them for three days in strong salt and water; then put them into cold water, with a little alum, and boil them till_ tender; drain, and let them lay in a thin syrup for two days, then boil the syrup again, pour it over the cucumbers, repeat tiiis opera- tion twice more ; then having boiled to souffle some clarified sugar, put them in it, simmer them for five minutes ; the ne.vt day boil both up again, when they may be put by for use. Cucumbers of).*—Let some cucumbers soak for two hours, in half a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a little salt; turn them often, by whicii means the water, which is so cold to the sto- mach, will be drawn out; after they have been thus soaked, squeeze and put them into a stewpan with some good stock, a bunch of herbs, and a bit of butter ; stew them, and, when done, add a little cullis; clear off the fat from the r.igoflt, and serve; or, when you have squeezed the cucumbers, put them into a stewpan with some butter, and, having turned them a few times over the fire, shake in a little flour, and moisten with stock; when it is sulliciently done, and the sauce consumed, add the yolks of two eggs beat up with some milk, and serve them for an eutremet, either under eggs, or without eggs. If you wish to make a soup of them, boil some cucumbers once up in water, and then dress them with stock and gravy, to give them a nice colour; when done, gdrnish the edge of your soup-dish with them, and take care of the water they were boiled in to add to the soup. Cucumbers, PagoiU of.* — Cut a number ol cucumbers, each in half, take out the seed, slice them very thin, ami soak them in vinegar, salt, pepper, and sliced onions. When they have laid in this a sufficient time, take them out and press them dry in a cloth ; put them into a saucepan with butter, yeloute, and stock, if your ragoCit is white, but wpag-nofe without butter, and nutmeg if brown; add a bunch of sweet herbs; when done, thicken it with yolks of eggs; put a little lemon-juice and serve. Cucumber Salad.*—Peel and cut a cucumber in slices, or peel without slicing it,and let itsteep for twenty-four hours in vinegar; then when you wish to serve, drain off’the vinegar, anti season the cucumber with pepper and salt. Cucumber Sauce.*—Cut four cucum- bers into pieces the size of half a crown and three quarters of an inch thick ; put them into a clean cloth, and rub them well to take out the water; put a bit of butter into a stewpan, to which put the cucumbers, and set them over a brisk fire, taking care to shake them frequentl y; when they are of a good colour, put to them three large spoonsful of veloute, and two of blond; let them remain a short time on the fire. Cucumbers, Stewed.—Slice some cu- cumbers thick, or cut them into halve.s and divide them into two lengths; strew over them some salt and pepper, and sliced onions ; add a little broth, or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly ; and before you serve them, if no butter was in before, put some, and a little flour, unless it wants richness. Cucumber Toast.*—Make aragoCitof cucumbers, well thickened; add to it the yolks of three eggs, dress them upon the crumb of bread, draw a knife dipped in a beat egg over the whole ; cover with grated bread, and then fry them. Cucumber J’inegur.—Pare and cut in slices fifteen large cucumbers; put them into a stone Jar, with three pints of vine- gar, four large onions cut in slices, three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoona- fnl of salt, three tea-spoonsful of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne pep- per. After leaving it to stand four days, give the whole a boil ; when cold, strain and filter the liquor through paper, and put it into small bottles, and use it for salad, or with cold meat. CULLIS.—Lay over the bottom of a 4C U L ( 202 ) CU L stewpan as much l/;an veal as will cover it au incli thick; then cover the veal with some slices of undressed bacon (gammon is the best), three onions, three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Put on the lid of the stewpan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a nice brown colour, fill the stewpan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, then let it simmer for an hour; add a little water mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick; boil it,half an hour, and strain it. You may keep this cullis a week. CuLLis.*—Put some roux into a sauce- pan, and when it is warm, add some stock, and a bunch of parsley to it, stir- ring it with a wooden spoon ; let it boil for about an hour, taking care to skim it. Strain it through a sieve, take ott'all the fat, and the scum which forms at the top, and then set it by for use. Cullis for allsorts of Butcher’s Meat. —You must take meat according to the number of guests; if ten or twelve, a leg of veal and a ham will be necessary, with all the fat, skin, and outside cut ott'. Cut the leg of veal in pieces of about three or four inches thick, each way, place them in a stewpan, and then tlie slices of ham, two carrots, and an onion cut in two; cover it close, let it stew softly at first, and as it begins to brown, take off the c>,)ver and turn it, to colour on all sides the same; but take care not to burn tfie meat. When it has a pretty brown co- lour, moisten your cullis with broth made of beef, or other meat; season the cullis with a little sweet basil, some cloves, and a little garlic; pare a lemon, cut it in slices, and put it into the cullis with some mushrooms. Put into a stewpan a good lump of butter, and set it over a slow fire; put into it two or three hands- ful of flour, stir it with a wooden ladle, and let it take a colour; if the cullis be pretty brown, you must put in some flour. The flour being brown with the cullis, pour it gently into the cullis, keeping it stirring with a wooden ladle, then let the cullis stew softly, and skim off all the fat, put in two glasses of Cham- pagne, or other white wine; but take care to keen the cullis very thin, so that you may take the fat well ofl'. and cla- rify it. To clarify it, you rnust put it into close until take ofT the fat that is round the stew- pan ; then wipe it oir the cover also, ami cover it again. Wheti the cullis is done, take out the meat and strain the cullis a stove tnat oraws well, cover it , and let it boil without uncovering, it boils over; tlien uncover it ami tlirough a silk strainer. This cullis is for all sorts of ragoflts; fowls, pies, and tureens. Cullis (a Family one).— Roll a piece of butter in flour, and stir it in a stew- pan till the flour is of a fine yellow colour. 'Then put in some thin broth: a little gravy, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, a little nutmeg or mace, a few mushrooms, pepper and salt. Let it stew an hour over a slow fire, then skim all the fat clean off, and strain it through a sieve. Cullis of Fish.—Broil a jack or pike till it is properly done, then take oft’the skin, and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs hard, and take out the yolks. Blanch a few almonds, beat them to a paste, in a mortar, and then add the yolks of eggs. Mix these well with the butter, then put in the fish, and pound all together. Take half a dozen onions, and cut them in slices, two parsnips, and three carrots. Set pti a stewpan, and put into it a piece of but- ter to brown, and put in the roots to boil. Turn them till they are brown, and then pour in a little broth to moisten them. When it has boiled a few minutes, strain it into another saucepan, and then put in a leek, some parsley, sweet basil, half a dozen cloves, some mushrooms, and truffles, and a few bread crumbs. When it has slewed gently a quarter of an hour, put in the fish, &c. from tlie mor- tar. Let the whole stew some time.loiiger, but be careful that it does not boil. When it is sufficiently done, strain it through a coarse sieve. Cullis, the Italian /Fay.—Put into a stewpan half a ladlelul of cullis, a-s much essence of ham, half a ladleful of gravy, as much of broth, three or four onions cut into slices, four or five cloves of gar- lic, a little beaten coriander seed with a lemon pared and cut into slices, a little sweet basil, mushrooms, and good oil; put all over the fire, let it stew a quarter of au liour, take the fat well off; let it be of a good taste, and it may be used with all sorts of me.at and fish, particularly witli glazed fish. This sauce will also serve for two chickens, six pigeons, quails nr ducklings, and all sorts of lame and wild fowl. Cullis for all Sorts of Ragoiits.—H.av- ingcut three pounds of lean veal, and hnlfa pound of ham into slices, lay it in tlie bottom of a stewpan. put in carrot*, and parsnips, ami an onion sliced ; cover it, and set it stewing over a stove; when it has a good colour, and begins to stick, put to it a little melted butter, and shake in a little flour, keep it nioving a little while, until tlie flour is fried; then•3 ) CUR CUR (2 moisten it witii gravy or broth, of each a like quantity ; then put in some pars- ley, and basij, a whole leek, a bay-leaf, some mushrooms and truffles minced small, three or four cloves, and the crust of two French rolls ; let all these simmer together for three quarters of an hour; then take out the slices of veal, strain it, and keep it for all sorts of ra- gofits. CuLLis of Roots.— Cut some carrots, parsnips,parsley roots, and onions, into slices, and put,them into a stewpan over the fire, and shape them round. Take two dozen of blanched almonds, and the crumb of two French rolls, soaked first in good fish broth. Pound them with the roots in a mortar, and then boil all toge- ther Season it with pepper and salt, strain it off, and use it for herb or fish soups. CuLLis, JVhite.—Take a piece of veal, cut it into small bits, with some thin slices of bam, and two onions, each cut into four; moisten it with broth, seasoned with mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, green onions, three cloves, and so let it stew. Being stewed, take out the meat and roots with a skimmer, put in a few crumbs of bread, and let it sieu-softly; take the white of a fowl, or two chickens, and put it into a mortar; being well pounded, mi.'citin the cullis, but it must not boil, and the cullis must be very white ; but if not white enough, pound two dozen of sweet almonds blanched, and put it into the cullis ; then boil a glass of milk, and add it to the cullis; let it be of a good flavour, and strain it off'; then put it into a small kettle, and keep it warm. It may be used for white loaves, crust of white bread, and biscuits. CUR.ACAO.*—This is a species of bit- ter or wild orange, of which the rind is dried, and maybe had at the druggists. To make the liqueur called by this name, wash a pound of curayao several times in warm water ; then, having well drained, put them info a vessel with four quarts of brandy, and one of water; let it stand closely covered for a fortnight, shaking it frequently ; distil it after that in the usual way, anddr.ain the curayao on a sieve. Sweeten it with five pounds and a half of sugar, dissolved in three pints of water, mix it with the spirit and then fiiterit. CURD Cakes.—Take a quart of curds, eiglit eggs, leaving out four whites; put in sugar, grated nutmeg, and a little flour; mix these well together, heat but- ter, in a fryingpan, drop them in, and Iry like fritters. Cunps Cream.—Put what quan- tity of milk you please into a pan, made rather warm, then add rennet. AFhen the curd is come, lade, it with a shape, into an earthen shape, perforated, of any form you please. As the whey drains, till it up, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours be- fore it is wanted, it will be very light, but for those who'like it harder, it should be made earlier, and squeezed. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and lemon, should be put into the dish or into a glass bowl, to serve with the curd. Cunn Pudding {Boiled). — Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained, through a sieve; then mix with it six eggs, a little cream, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg grat- ed, three spoonsful of flour, and three spoonsful of bread-crumbs, half a pound of currants, and half a pound of raisins stoned. Let it boil for one hour, in a thick cloth well floured. Curd Puddings or Puffs..—Turn two quarts of milk to curds, press the whey from the curd, and rub it through a sieve; then add to it four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny roll, two spoonsful of cream, and half a nutmeg grated, a little sugar, and two spoonsful of white wine. Butter little cups, or small pattypans, and fill them three parts full. Bake them carefully, and serve with sweet sauce. Curd Puffs.—Take the curd of two quarts of new milk, drain it dry, add to it the yolks of seven eggs, and the whites of two, sugar, rose-water, nutmeg and bread-crumbs ; make into a paste, cut in what shape you please, frytliem in boiling lard, and serve them with a sauce made with butter, sugar, and white wine. Curd Star.—Pnt a quart of new milk over the tire with a few blades of mace : and when ready to boil, add to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs «ell beaten, and as much salt as will lie upon the point of a_ small knife. Let it boil till the whey is clear ; then drain it on a thin cloth, or hair sieve, season it with sugar and a little cinnamon, rose water, orange- flower water or white wine, to your taste, and put it into a star mould, or any other form you please. Leave it to stand for some hours before youtnrn it into a dish ; then put round it a thick cream or cus- tard. Cimns 07id IVhey.—Take a number of tne rough coats that line the gizzards of turkeys and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain, rub them well with salt, and liana tliem to dry. Tbi.s makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. VVlien to be used, break off'some bits of the skin, and putCUR CUR 204 on it some boiling water; in eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other ren- net. CURRANT^ Cakes.—Pick and wash the currants, either white or red ; to two quarts of currants, put one pint of water ; when boiled, run the juice through a jcily bag, do not press the hag; to one quart of Juice put three pounds of sugar ; boil up the juice, and strew in the sugar; pour it into glasses, dry it in a store till it will turn out, then dry the cakes on plates. CuRR.iNTS, Conserve of.*—Take the seeds from two pounds of red currants, and put them on the fire in a silver pan, to dry them ; then press them through a sieve, and put them again on the fire, stirring constantly until you can see the bottom of the pan ; then, having dis- solved and boiled three pounds of sugar to casse, pour it on the fruit, stirring continually; in a short time take it ofl’, stirring it as before until it bubbles ; then pour it into moulds. Currant Cream.—Brui.se some cur- rants that are thoroughly ripe in boiled cream; put in beaten cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste; then strain it through a fine sieve, and serve. Strawberries or raspberriesj may be done in the same way. It is best to sweeten the fruit before you put in the cream, which should he almost cold be- fore the fruit is put to it, else the cream is liable to curdle. Currants (Black) Drops. — Procure half a sieve of black currants, and put them in a pan ; mash them well with a spatula, and put them over the fire ; let them just boil, and pass them through a sieve, over an earthen pan; put what jelly comes from them into an earthen pipkin, put it on the fire, and let it boil for two hours; keep stirring it all the time with your spatula, or it will hilrn; put in two pounds and a half of pow- dered sugar, mix it with the jam, and stir it over the fire half an hour, drop it on pewter sheets or plates, in little drops, from your knife, and put them into a hot stove until you find that they are quite dry, then talce them off with a knife. Cti'RRANTS (Beil), Fromase Bnvarois of.*—Take the seeds from a pound of very sweet red currants, and a quarter of a pound of raspberries; press them through a fine sieve ; mix with the juice half a pound of fine sugar,and six drachms of isinglass. Having put it in the pan with ice, when it begins to set, stir in a plate of whipped cream, and finish as directed. See Fromage Bnvurois. Currants (lo /ce).—Take Iresb cur- rants in bunches, and have ready the ■white of an egg, well beaten to froth, dip them in, lay them abroad, sift double re- fined sugar pretty thick over them, and let them dry in a stove or oven. Currant lees.—Boil two pounds of red currants a moment with a quarter of a pound of raspberries ; rubthem through a sieve, adding a pint of water, and then the sugar, which must be very well dissolved before icing. Currant Ices. — Pick some currants from their stalks, and squeeze them through a sieve; then take clarified su- gar, boil it to a very high degree, add it to your currant juice, and, if you choose, .squeeze in the juice of four lemons, it will make it more mellow; strain them through the sieve a second time, put them in the. icing pot, and finish the same as all other ices. Currant Ice Cream.—Take one large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin, with half a gill of syrup, squeeze in one lemon and a half; add a pint of cream and a little cochineal, then pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom.. Currant fFrey/i.! Ice Cream.— Take one pint oj currants, pass them through a sieve, with five ounces of powdered su- gar, and a pint of cream, then freeze it according to custom. Currant IVater Ice.—Take a large spoonful and a half of currant jelly, put it into a basin, and add to it the juice of two lemons, half a gill of syrup, and a pint of water; then freeze it rich. Currant (Fres/iJ IVater Ice.—Take a pint of currants, pass them through a sieve; then add to them four ounces of powdered sugar, and one pint of water ; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant (Black) Ice Cream.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, add to it the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it according to custom. Currant (ZJ/«c/5‘) IVater 7cc.—Take one large spoonful of black currant jelly, put it into a basin, add the juice of two lemons, a gill of syrup, and half a pint of water ; strain it, and freeze it rich. Currant .Tam (Black).—Gather your currants on a dry day, when they are full ripe, pick them from the stalks, w.ish them well in a basin, and to every ponnd of currants, put a pound of double re- fined sugar, beaten and sifted ; put them into a preserving pan, Imil them h.alfan hour, skim, and keep them stirring all tl'.e time: then put them into pots ; when cold, put brandy paper oyer, and lie while paper over all.CUR ( 205 ) CUR Currant Jelly.—Set on the fire in a sugar-pan a pint of smooth clarified sugar; when It boils, put in a quart of picked red currants, in which let them boil for half an hour; be careful to skim them well, and at times add a little cold water to raise the scum; when boiled enough run the liquor through a sieve into a basin, in which you have squeezed three lemons, then put in some isinglass, and set your jelly in a mould in ice as usual. Currant Jelly.*—For this purpose the ripest red currants should be taken, as the white are not so good for jelly; crush them, and press out all the juice into a glazed pan; cover it very closely, and set in a cold place for six days; then with great care remove the thick skin which then covers the juice, and pour it into another vessel, throwing away what remains at the bottom ; when the juice is perfectly clear, weigh it, and for each pound take half a pound of crushed sugar, put them on the fire together, and much scum will soon rise, this must all be taken off; let it remain on the fire for about an hour; then try it as follows : put a small quantity on a very cold plate, and if when it cools it becomes thick,and of proper consistence, take the pan from the fire; if that is not the case, let it re- main until that is the case. Pour the jelly whilst hot, they must be quite cold before you cover them with paper. Currant Jelly, Framboisce.*—Take seven pounds of fine ripe red currants, three of white, and two of white raspber- ries, press them through a very close horse-hair sieve; pour the juice on nine pounds of double-refined sugar, broken in small pieces, place the whole on a brisk fire, taking care to remove the scutn as soon as it appears. When the boilings follow each other very quickly, take out the skimmer, (which should be of copper) stir it, and let the jelly fall from it; on quitting the skimmer it ought to fall like treacle. If it does an, it is sufficiently done. This jelly should be rose-coloured ; by making it entirely of red currants and red raspberries, the colour of the jelly will he red. Currant Jelly (Red).—Strip off the currants, put them in a jar, set the iar in a kettle of hot water, let it boil .an hour; then throw the currants and juice into a fine lawn sieve, press out ali the juice, and to every pint of juice put a pound of double-refined sugar; put them in a pre- serving pan, set it over a charcoal fire, and keep stirring till it is a .jelly, which you will know by taking a little out to cool ; be careful to take off the scum as It rises, and when it is jellied and very clear, pour it into glasses; when cold,' cut round pieces of paper that will just cover the jelly, dipped in brandy ; put white paper over the glasses, twisting round the top. Currant (Black).—Make it the same way as the red currant jelly, only with this difference, that you may use very coarse sugar. Currant Jelly (White).*—Take the seeds from a dozen pounds of fine white currants, and put them into ten pounds of clarified sugar boiled to grand lisse, take your saucepan Irom the fire, stir the jelly lightly with a skimmer, then boil it up twice, after which pass it through a sieve. Replace it over the fire, taking care to keep the sides of the pan clean with a sponge, so that the jelly does not become coloured by the heat in boiling ; skim it, and finish the same as the red jelly. Currant Jelly (Violet).*—Mix two pounds of black currants with ten pounds of red currants, press out the juice, and pour it on nine pounds of fine sugar. Make your jelly the same way as the rose-coloured currant jelly. Currant Jelly xuithout Press the juice from your currants through a sieve ; weigh it, and to every pound, put a pound of powder sugar; mix them to- gether well, pass them through a strain- ing bag, let it stand a little; then put it into pots, and expose it to the sun for two days. Currant Jelly Framboisee.*—Take two pounds of currants and a handful of raspberries ; bruise them well, and rub them through a new coarse cloth, strain the juice several times through a felt strainer until quite clear. Clarify two ounces of isinglass with a little clarified sugar, skim it well, strain, and let it cool. Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, boil it to petit pcrle, and let that cool also; then mix that, the isinglass, juice of the fruit, and the juice of a lemon together, and having oiled and well drained a mould, pour in your pre- paration, set it in ice, and do not remove It from the mould, until wanted for table. Currant JeUy Dumplings.—Take a piece of nice rich paste, and roll it out rather tjiin; then take some currant jelly, spread^ it over the paste, and roll it up; roll It in a cloth, and tie it at each end ; bou It an hour, and then serve. Currant Marmalade.—Strip your cur- rants off from the bunches, and soak them in boiling water until they break ; then take them off'the fire, and lay them on a sieve to drain ; and when they are cold, pass them through the same sieve to clear off the seeds; then dry them overCUR CUR ( 206 ) the fire till you bring your sugar to the fifth degree of boiling, allowing as much sugar as the fruit weighs ; mix all well together, simmer it over the fire some time ; then put the marmalade into pots. Currant Marmutade. — Take some ripe red currants,pick them, and squeeze out the juice from some of them ; put to it some juice of raspberries ; then put to this the whole currants, boil them gently; and when they begin to break, put in an eqital weight of sugar boiled to candy height; boil them together, mash them as they boil; skim them, put in some rose water, and when it becomes as thick as marmalade, put it into pots. Currant Paste. — Well wash some currants, put them into a preserving pan, bruise them, and with a little water boil them to a pulp; then press out the juice, and to every pound take twenty ounces of loaf sugar; boil it to a crack, take it from the fire, and put in the paste; then heat it over the fire, take oll'ihe scum; put it into your paste pots, or glas.ses; then dry and finish them the same as other pastes. Currant i’asfe.*—Pick and take the seeds from ten pounds of fine red cur- rants, crush them, and havingpressed out tlie juice, strain it through a silk sieve. Clarify and boil to casse an equal quan- tity of sugar, pour the currant juice on it, set the whole over a gentle fire, stir- ring constantly until it becomes of a pro- per consistence, which may be known by observing when the bottom of the pan can be seen clearly ; take it off from the fire as soon as that is the case, and pour the paste into tin moulds, which must be placed on slates, or copper plates: smooth the tops with the blade of a knife, spri nkle sifted sugar over, and place them in a stove, where they must remain till next day; when the paste should be turned in the moulds; sprinkle sifted sugar over them again, and set tliem in the stove a second u'ght; on the following day re- move them from the moulds, lay it in boxes, with white paper between each layer, and keep them in a dry place, A sixth part of the quantity of raspberries added to the currants, would greatly im- prove the flavour of this paste. Currant Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar on a plate, then a quantity of currants, which squeeze through a.sieve; when that is done, .add the juice to the sugar, till it makes a paste as clear and thick as you think proper. Currants, Preserved. * — 1 akc the seeds and stalks Irom whatever quantity of entrants vou intend to use (of which a fourth part must be while currants); put them into a preserving pan, with a glass of water ; let them boil up until the fruit bursts; then strain the juice twice. Cla- rify and Itoil to casse some sugar (an equal weight to the fruit) ; pour the juice on it, boil them together a quarter of an. liour, and having skimmed it well, pour it into pots. Currants, Red, (Preserved in hunches).—Having stoned your currants, tie six or seven bunches together with a thread, to a piece of split deal about the length of a 'finger; put double-refined pgar, equal in weight to your currants, into a preserving pan, witli a little water, and boil it till the sugar flies ; then put the currants in, and give them a boil up, and cover them till the next day; when, take them out, and either dry them, or put them into glasses, with the syrup boiled up with a little of the juice of red currants ; put brandy-paper over them, and tie them close down with anotlier paper, and set them in a dry place. CuRRANT.s, Preserved liquid in hunches.*—For this purpose, either red or white currants may be used, only be careful not to mix them, and choose those bunches which have the largest currants; take out the seeds very care- fully with the nib of a pen. Boil clari- fied sugar (a pound to each pound of fruit) to houle, take the pan from the fire, put in the. currants, stir them w'ith a skimmer, taking care that the Iruit does not buret, cover the pan, and give the whole one boil; skim the preserve light- ly, and put it into glasses ; do not cover them till the next day. Currants (to preserve them dry).— Stone your curr.vms, and tie them up in bunches; to every pound of currants, boil two pounds of sugar, till it blows very strong; dip in the currants, let them boU very last till the sugar flies all over them; when settled a quarter of an hour, boil them again till the sugar rises almost to the top of the pan; let them settle ; skim them, and set them by till the next day; then drain tliem, and lay them out, taking care to spread the sprigs, that tliey may not dry clogged together; dust them very much, and dry them in a hot stove. Cuurants Preserved in Jelly.—Stone your currants, clip oil the black tops, and clip I hem fiun the stalks; to rvprv pound boil two pounds _ol sugar, till it blows very sti ong ; slip in the currants, give them a quirk boil, take tliem from the fire, and let them settle a little ; then give them another boil, and put in a pint of currant jelly, dr.awn as direr cd, till you sec ilie jelly will flake from the skimmer; ibcnieniovc it from the fire.C b R ( 207 ) CUR let it settle a little; skim them, and put them into glasses, and as they cool, take care to disperse them equally. CuRKANTs for Tarts, {to preserve).— Put a pound of sugar into a preserving pan, for every pound and a quarter of currants, with a sufficient quantity of currant juice to dissolve the sugar ; wlien it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, and boil them till they are very clear; put them into a jar, cover them with brandy-paper, and keep them in a dry place. Currant Pudding.—A pound of cur- rants, a pound of suet, five eggs, four spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, a tea- spoonful of ginger, a little powder sugar and a little salt; boil this for three hours. Currants {Ratafia of). ^—Take two quarts of brandy, two of currant juice, two pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of pounded cinnamon, and the same of cloves. Take the seeds from the cur- rants before you press out the juice ; rectify the brandy ; then add the cinna- mon, cloves, and juice. When it has stood a moi'.th, draw it off', dissolve the sugar in it, and then filter the ratafia. Currants {Black), Ratifia of.*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, one quart of river water, two pounds of black cur- rants, three of crushed sugar, one of bit- ter cherries, six ounces of black currant leaves, and a drachm of cinnamon or cloves._ Bruise the leaves, and fruit, and spice, and then put them into the brandy to infuse for a month. Dissolve the sugar in the water, and when the ratafia is drawn off^ mix the syrup with it; then filter and bottle it. Currant Shruh.—To five pints of cur- rant juice, either red or white, one pound and a half of loaf sugar; when dissolved, put to it one gallon of rum or brandy; clear it through a flannel bag. Currant Syrttp.* —Put five or six pounds of red, two of white currants, and two pottles of raspberries, into a sieve; crush them, and press the juice through it into a pan, and place it in a cellar to ferment; in a week’s time, pass the juice through a straining bag, and having clarified, and boiled Vo fort souffle four pounds of sugar, put the juice to it, and boil them togetlier once; skim, ami take it from the fire. It is necessary that tlie currant juice should ferment, to revent its becoming a jelly in the ottles. Currant TVirf.*—Pick your currants from the stalks carefully, and having lined a dish with puff'-paste, strew pow- der sugar over the bottom of the aieh ; then put the fruit, then sugar, and so on. in alternate layers, till your dish is full, then cover, and bake it. Currant tart is much improved by add- ing either raspberries, or mulberries, to the currants. Currant (red or vdiite) Tartlets.*— Having taken the seeds from a pound of fine ripe currants, mix them in a pan, with a quarter of a pound of powder sugar; put these into the tartlets, made as usual. (See Tartlets.) When baked, make a thin jelly with a quarter of a pound of crushed currants, and two ounces of powder,sugar, with which the tartlets should be masked. Currants en Timbale. — Pick and wash some fine red currants, and set them to stew gently in thick clarified sugar; and when done enough, mix with them lemon juice, and a little isinglass. Currant Water.*—Pick a pound ahd a half of currants, and half a pound of raspberries, both quite ripe; crush them, press the juice through a sieve, and put to it a quart of water, and threfe quarters of a pound of sugar; let it stand half an hour, then pass it through a napkin, pour it iuto decanters, and set them in iced water. Currant {Fresh) Water. — Take a quart of fresh currants, and squeeze them through a sieve with your hand; add twij large wooden spoonsful of powdered su- gar, one lemon, and some water; make it to your taste; strain it through a sieve, it will then be fit for use. Currant Water made of Jelly.—Take two large spoonsful of currant jelly, and ■mix it with a little warm water ; then put one gill of syrup, squeeze two or three lemons in, and let the rest be water; taste, and make it to your palate, putting a little cochineal in to make it a fine colour ; strain it through a sieve, and it will then be fit for use. Currant JVine. * — Take sixteen pounds of currants, three gallons of waterbreak the currants with your hands in the water, strain it off’; put to it fourteen pounds of fine sugar, strain It into the vessel; add a pint of brandy, and a pint of raspberries. Stop it down, and let it stand three months. Currant Wine {Red or White).*— lake thirty pounds of either red or white currants, and an equal quantity of black currants and small cherries, not stoned, and leaving on the stalks ; put the whole into a cask, and bruise them With a large Ktick ; then boil half a quarter of juniper- berries in five or six pints of water, to which add half a poiindj or a pound of honey, to make the juniperberries fer- ment; when they have fermented, mix them with the juice of the fruits. StitCUR CUR ( 208 ) it together during four and twenty hour?, two or tliree times, and then fill up tiie cask with water, and close it. This quantity of fruit will make a hundred and fifty bottles of excellent wine. If you desire to make it stronger, put in a pint or two of brandy. CvRRAKT {Blac/c) IVhic.—Take three pounds of ripe black currants ; pick and bruise them, and put them into a deep basin, with four bottles and a half of brandy; add, if you please, some cloves, and a little bruised cinnamon, and set the jar in a place for two months. At the end of that time, strain ofif the liquor, pressing the currants well, in order to extract all the juice, which put again into the jar, with a pound and three quarters of sugar; leave it till the sugar is completely melted, and then strain through paper, and bottle oH'. This liquor becomes excellent after three or four years keeping. CuftRANT {Dry) Brioche.*—Tliis is made in the same manner as the cheese brioche; only that currants (a pound and a half to eight pounds of the paste), are used instead of cheese. 7’he same quantity of stoned raisins may also be used, if preferred. Cdruant {Dry) Cukes. — Take two pounds of fine flour, one pound and a half of butter, the yolks of five or six eggs, one pound and a half of sugar, six spoonsful of white wine, three spoonsful of carraway seeds, two nutmegs, and one pound of currants ; beat up the_ butter with your hand till it is very thin ; dry the flour well; put in the carraway seeds, and nutmegs, finely grated ; afterwards put them all into your batter, with the eggs, white wine, and rose-water ; mingle them well together ; put in the currants ; let your oven be pretty hot, and as soon as they are coloured they will be sufti- ciently done. Currant {Dry) Funchonnettes. * — Take half the quantities of the usual ingredients, (see Funchonnettes), with the addition of three'ounces ot dry cur- rants. When your funchonnettes are made and pearled, put between, and on each pearl, a single currant, (for which purpose take an ounce). Put them into a gentle oven, paying particular atten- tion that the 7ncringues, or pearls, do not lose their white colour. Currant {Dry) Fritters d la Dan- p/iwe.*—Having picked and washed six ounces of dried currants, boil them gently for a minute or two in two ounces of clarified sugar. When cold, put about a quarter of a spoonful of them on each fritter (see Fritters d la Dauphine), and finish as therein directed. Currant Fritters without Eggs.— Half a pint of ale, not bitter; stir into it flour to make it tolerably thick, and a few currants; beat this up quick ; liave the lard boiling, throw in a large spoon- ful at a time. Currant {Dry) Genoises.*— Having washed and dried a quarter of a pound of currants, mix half of them, and the peel of a lemon, shred fine, with the usual preparation. (See Gemise.) Finish and glaze them as directed, with a quarter of > a iDOund of powder-sugar, and a little white of egg; as you do them, strew over each a few of the currants; dry them a minute in the oven. Currants {Dried).^ Madeluines of.*— Prepare your paste m the usual way, and when it Is ready to put in the moulds, mix with it two ounces of currants. Currants {Dry) Mosaic Tartlets of.* —Wash half a pound of dry currants, and ' mix three quarters of them with a pot of apricot marmalade; with this fill your tartlets. (See Mosaic Tartlets.) When baked, glaze them, and strew over them the remainder of the cur- rants, which must be perfectly dry. Currants {Dry) Nongals.*—Blanch three quarters of a pound of sweet al- monds; cut them into thin slices, and put them into a cool oven to colour them ; dissolve six ounces of powder- sugar, and when it begins to turn red, throw in the almond.-, stirring them with a spatula; pour this mixture on a but- tered plate thinner than usual, (see Nongats d la Franyaise), and strew over it dry currants and sugar. Finish them in the usual manner, and then cut them into crescents, with a c'ucular paste- cutter, of two inches diameter. Aniseed ?iongats .are made the same way. Currants {Dried) Cream Pd fissile of.*—Wash a quarter of a pound of dried^ currants in several waters, till perfectly*^ clean ; dry them well, and then simmer them a few minutes in two ounces of clarified sugar. Make a cream pdiissiere, (see that article); and having mixed the butter with it, add a quarter of a pound of sweet and bitter macaroons, two ounces of powder-sugar, and the currants. Raisins may also be used for this pur- pose ; but they must be stoned, and each raisin cut in half. Currant {Dry) Petits Pains.*—rm the petils-pains. made like pi fits-ituDis d la reine, with cream pati.-isiere, to which is added, two ounces of powder- sugar. and two of dry currants. Then make a glaze with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, ana half the white of an egg; mask each petit-pain with this.CUS CUR { 209 ) then give the custard a simmer till of a i pan with a quarter Of a pound of powder- |i rl and strew the 'currants over as you do ki them; dry the «laze in the oven. i CutiRAN’Ts {Dried), and, Cedrat Pud- ii ding^nglo-Frani^aise.*—Rasp the eeste of a cedrat on a quarter of a pound of lump-sunar, scrape it into a pan, with a glass of Madeira wine, and three quar- ters of a pound of dried currants : take three quarters of a pound of beef-suet, six ounces of marrow, both chopped very small, and five ounces of flour; add to them, with five eggs, half a glass of dream, a pinch of salt, and half a nut- meg, grated ; mix these ingredients with the currants, &c., and finish as directed. : See Marroio Pudding Anglo-Franpaise. CoRBANT {Dry) Pudding.* — Chop a pound of suet, and mix it with a pound of flour, half a pound of currants, (well : washed), a tea-spoonful of pounded-gin- I ger, half a spoonful of tincture of saflron, and a little salt; stir in a sufficient quan- tity of water, to make it a proper con- sistence ; tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for an hour; serve it with melted butter, white wine, and sugar. CuRBAN'T Dry Sauce {for P'enison). —Boil for a few minutes one ounce of dried currants, in half a pint of water ; then add a small tea-cupful of bread crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir the whole well till it is properly smooth. Currant {Dry) fVefers.*—Blanch and cut half a pound of sweet almonds into very thin strips, put them into a sugar, half a spoonful of flour, the grated rind of an orange, two whole eggs and one yolk, and a grain of salt; stir these ingredients with a spatula very gently, so as not to break tlie almonds; when well mixed, butter a baking-plate, about eighteen inches long, by twelve wide, Upon which pour your preparation, spreading it with the blade of a knife, that it may be equally liquid in all parts; and then, with a fork, remove such of the almonds as may lay above the others. Strew over the whole two ounces of dry currants. Put it into a moderately heated oven for two minutes, and then strew over the currants some crushed sugar, and replace them in the oven till they acquire a clear yellowish tinge on both sides : when done, cut it into pieces two inches square, and while warm, press them on a round stick (about two inches diameter), to give them a semicircular form. This operation shotild be per- formed as quickly as possible, that the I wafers may not change colour. CURRY Balls.—Beat* up the yolk of I a hard egg with n small piece of butter; season them with curry-powder; mix them w'ith bread crumbs; and_having maile as many balls as you require, boil them a minute or two, belore you make use of them. Curry Powder. * — Take thirteen ounces of coriander seed, two ounces of black pepper, one ounce of cayenne pep- per, three ounces of cummin seed, six ounces of pale-coloured turmeric, the whole pounded very fine. Set them to dry perfectly before the fire, turning them frequently; mix them well, and when cold, put it into bottles; and if kept in a dry place, will continue good for years. This powder is used to flavour various kinds of meat, fish, and poultry, in the proportion of two table-spoonsful of the powder to two pounds of meat; the onions must be fried first, then the meat and curry, and when it is a little brown, pour On it two cups of water. CuRRv Sauce.*— Put a quarter of a pound of butter in to a saucepan,wi th a tea- spoonful of saffron in powder, five small pimentos, crushed ; make your butter quite hot, and then add five large spoons- ful of veloute; stir the sauce well, and serve it without skimming or straining ; a little grated nutmeg may also be added. CUSTARD.—Boil a pint of milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon ; mix a pint Of cream, and the yolks of five eggs, well beaten ; when the milk tastes of the sea- soning,_8weeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the Cream, stirring it well; proper thickness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way; then Season with a large spoonful of peach water, and two _tea-spoonsful_ of brandy, or a little ratafia. If you wish your custards to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream. CusTARBS.*—Take six eggs, leave out the whites ; mix your eggs and sugar to- gether with some rose-water; then boil a pint of cream, and put in the eggs (the cream must not boil after the eggs have been put in). Stir them to prevent them from curdling. • Custards {Small).*—V\xi an ounce of Sifted flouf into a small saucepan, witli one egu , and stir it over the fire till it becomes a very smooth paste; mix with it SIX yolks and one whole egg, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, six maca- roons, crushed, and .a grain of salt; stir It well lor some time, and then add ten moulds full of cream, .half an ounce of crisped orange flowers, or the rind of an orange, lemon, or cedrat. When your moulds are lined with puff-paste, put in each a piece of butler the size of a fil- bert ; then pour in the preparation, and T 3210 c u s cus put tliem in a brisk oven: serve them ' quite hot. .These quantities will make eighteen. Costard Anglo-Frawiaise.*—Make a cream pdtissiHre, with a little vanilla in it; and when dried, add of butter, powder-sugar, and crushed bitter ma- caroons, six ounces each, a quarter of a pound of dry currants, and the same of stoned raisins, two ounces of preserved cedi-at, cut in pieces, four drachms of crisped orange flowers, half a nutmeg grated, a pinch of salt, and half a glass of white wine. Mix in the twelve whites whipped firm as usual; pour the pre- paration into a raised crust, and bake in the usual way. Costard, Baked.— Boil a pint of cream with mace and cinnamon ; when cold, take four eggs, leaving out two of the whites, a little rose and orange- flower water, a little white wine, nut- meg, and sugar to your taste; mix them well together, and bake them in china cups. Costard of Cream.*—Prepare your custard as usual. (See Apple Custard) Fasten a paper band, about four inches high, round it, and till it with a good cream patissiere, with rather less butter than usual. Bake it for three quarters of an hour; take off the paper, dorez it: sprinkle the top of the cream, and colour it with the salamander. Costard Fritters.— Having beat up the yolks of eight eggs, with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy, add a pint of cream ; sweeten it, and bake it in a small dish. When it is cold, cut it into quarters, and dip them in batter made of half a pint of cream, a quarter of a pint of milk, four eggs, a little ginger, grated. Fry them in good lard or dripping, and when done, strew grated sugar over them. Costard of Fresh Fruit.*—Have ready a tin or copper mould, and line it completely with paste, taking care that it takes all the form of the mould. Then take a suflicient quantity of apricots, peaches, plums, or any other fruit you please; and having taken out the stones, seeds, and stalks, mix the fruit up with owder-sugar; put it into the crust, and ake it in a hot oven. When ready for table, mask it with the syrup and ker- nels, blanched and cut in halves. Costard in Preserved Ora7iges.— Fill three or five oranges with custard ; gar- nish with a little sweetmeat, either wet or dry ; this makes a very pretty dish. Costard d la Parisien7te.*—C\il fifty sound apples into quarters, (pared and cored), and put them into a saucepan, with half a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and a pot of apricot marmalade ; put them over a moderate fire, with coals on the sauce- pan lid ; let them remain a few minutes, that they may soften, but not break. Have ready a preparation of rice, boiled with half a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which has been grated the peels of four lemons, a pinch of salt, and eight or nine glasses of milk, and thickened with the yolks of ten eggs. Make a raised crust like the custard d la Portu- gaise, in which pour a fourth part of the rice (cold); on that lay forty-eight quarters of apples; over them pour the same quantity of the rice, then the apples, riee, &c. reserving the finest quarters for the top. Bake it in a brisk oven, for between two and three hours. When done, mask the top with apple- jelly, apricot or currant marmalade, and the crust with apricot marmalade also. Custard {Plant).— Take a quart of cream or new milk, a stick of cinnamon, four bay leaves, and some mace; boil them all together; then well beat up twelve eggs, sweeten them, and put them into a pan; bake, or boil them, stirring them all one way, till they are of a proper thickness; boil your spice and leaves first, and when the milk is cold, mix your eggs and boil it; you may leave out the spice, and only use the bay leaves, or in the room of tliat, four or five bitter almonds. Custard d la Portugaise.* — Choose about a hundred fine apples, from which select three dozen of the best; scoop out the core, and as you trim them, put them into a saucepan, with just water enough to cover them, adding the juice of two lemons, and two spoonsful of powder- sugar ; when scalded, put them into another saucepan, with three quarters of a pound of powder-su^r, the peel of two lemons, and a sufficient quantity of water to boil them : in the mean time, cut the rest of the apples into quarters, and make them into a marmalade ; to which, add a pot of apricot marmalade, and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; pass this through a sieve. The whole apples must be taken from the fire while they are yet firm. Rlake a raised crust, about nine inches diameter, and five or six in height; in which put a fourth part of the marma- lade ; lay a dozen of the whole apples on that, having filled each apple with apneot marmalade; cover them with the mar- malade (the same quantity as at the bottom), then a dozen more apples; mask them also with marmalade, and so again with the remaining fruit and mar- malade. Tie 3 thick paper round theCUS ( 211 ) CYD crust, and put It into a brisk oven; in an hour’s time cover the top, and then let it remain two hours longer. When done, mask the crust with a very transparent apricot marmalade, and the top with a clear apple jelly. This custard rnay be garnished in various ways according to taste. , Custard Pudding.*— Mix a pint of cream with six eggs, well beaten, tvvo spoonsful of flour, half a nutmeg, grated, and salt and sugar to taste; butter a cloth, and pour in your batter ; tie it up, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an hour and a half. Serve, with melted butter for sauce. Custard Pudding.— Boil a pint of thick cream, with a bit of cinnamon in it, and put to it a quarter of a pound of sugar. When it is cold, put to it the yolks of five eggs, well beaten, and stir it over the fire till it is pretty tliick; but take care not to let it boil. When it is quite cold, butter a cloth well, dust it with flour, tie the custard up in it very close, and boil it three quarters of an hour. When you take it up, put it into a basin to cool a little *, untie the cloth, lay the dish on the basin, and turn it up. You will break the pudding, if you do not take off the cloth carefully. Grate over it a little sugar, put melted butler and a little wine in a boat, and send it to table. Custard (^Small) Sovfflees.*—Put two ounces of rice-flour and two of butler into a saucepan ; mix them together well, and add to them a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and two glasses of cream, in which a small quantity of vanilla has been infused; put this mix- ture over a moderate fire, and boil it like a cream pCitissiere. Then put to them the yolks of four eggs, two spoonsful of whipped cream, and the four whiles, beaten firm. Make the paste for the moulds the same as petits pates d la be- chamelle, and when half baked, pour in your preparation, and finish them. When done, they should not stand a minute before they are sent to table. These small custard soufflees may be made with any fruit, and flavoured with any ingre- dient you may think proper to use. Custard la Suisse.* — Put nine glasses of milk and half a pound of fresh butter into a saucepan, and when it be- gins to boil, take it from the fire, and add to it from eighteen to twenty ounces of sifted flour, stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes a smooth paste, when it must be dried a little over the fire; in about five minutes put it into another vessel; mix with it six ounces of butter, a pound of Gruyere cheese grated ; add afterwards, a spoonful of mignmelte, tvvo of powder-sugar, and four eggs ; mix them well together, and then put in four more eggs, six yolks, and half a pouna of Gruyere cheese, cut in dice, wnen the whole is thoroughly incorporated, il the paste be not sufficiently moist (it should be of the consistence of the chmjs^ add an egg or two, then whip six whitCT of eggs firm, and put it in with six spoonsful of Chantilly Pour this preparation, while hot, into a raised crust, at least ten inches in height, and bake it for two hours, or two and a half, in a moderate oven. Serve it hot. Custard, d la Turque.*—Put a pound and a half of good rice into cold water over the fire, and when it boils, take it off and drain it well; then put it into a large saucepan, with twelve glasses of good milk, a pound of butter, the same of sugar, on which have been rasped the peels of four oranges or cedrats, and a grain of sale. Put the saucepan over a moderate fire to swell the rice, taking care that none of the grains burst ; stir it a little, and when done, add to it two pounds of dry currants, the yolks of twelve eggs, and some spoonsful of Chart- tilly cream; after .which mix in the twelve whites whipped firm. Prepare the crust in the usual way ; bake it in a moderate oven two hours and a half; when ready for table, brown it with a sdldm An (iGr» CUTLETS, Maintenon. — Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg ; dip them in a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them. Serve them with melted butter and a little mushroom catsup unixed with it. Cutlets en Surpt'ise.* — Take some pufl'-pastP, roll it out to a moderate tbitdvnrss, and cu t it in to pieces the form of small hearts, in the same manner as Mutton Cutlets en Papillotes, lay some apricot marmalade on them, turn them over, press the edges together, lay them on a tin, and bake them. Cut some common paste into bands so <as to resem- ble the mutton bones, bake, hut do not colour them. When the cutlets are done, dorez them; crush some mushrooms, which sprinkle over, instead of bread; make a skewer red hot, and lay it on the cutlets to imitate the marks of the grid- iron. Dish them, en conso»i7>ie, with the bones placed in proper order, and serve. CYDER.—Cyder is a fruit liquor pre-C Y D 212 ) C Y D pared by nieans of fermentation, from the expressed juice of different sorts of apples. The process by which this liquor is formed has much similarity in all the dilferent districts, although there is much diversity in regard to the care and management which are bestowed upon it. The v.irietiesof appleswhichare grown and cultivated in the different fruit dis- tricts of the kingdom for this intention, are extremely numerous ; the following is a list of the most approved:— Styre. Coccagee. Golden Harvey. Red Streak. Golden Pippin. Queening. Cbwanne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence ctilled Red Norman, Yellow Norman, &c. Mr. Knight’s new kinds are also highly esteemed for cyder; namely, TheDownton Pippin. The Grange Apple. The Foxley, and The Brengewood Pippin. Gathering the Fruit. — Great care should be taken that it is sufficiently ripe before it is removed from the trees, otherwise the cyder will be harsh, rough, and unpleasant in its taste. It should be gathered on a dry day, when the fruit has acquired such a state of maturity as to be ready to drop from the tree, when the limbs or branches of it should be slightly shaken, and disburthened in a partial manner of its apples, thus taking only such as are in a ripe state, leaving the others to acquire a due de- gree of maturity. It is indeed thought best to make three gatherings of the crop, keeping each by itself. The latter gatherings, as well as the wind-falls, can, however, only be employed in mak- ing inferior cyder; the prune cyder must be drawn from the first gatherings which have been made. The merit of cyder will always depend much on the proper mixture, or rather on the proper separation of the fruits. Eactikiiid should be collected separately and kept till it becomes perfectly mel- low ; for this purpose, in the common practice of the country, they are placed in heaps of ten inches or a foot thick, and exposed to the sun and air and rain ; not being over covered, except in reiy se- vere frosts. The strength and flavour of the future liquor is however increased by keeping the iruit under cover some time before it is ground; but unless a situa- tion can be allbrded it, in which it i« ex- posed to a free current of air, and where it can be spread very thin, it is apt to contract an unpleasant smell, which will much aflect the cyder produced from it. No_ criterion appears to be known by which the most proper point of maturity in the fruit may be asceitained with ac- curacy; but there is good reason to be- lieve that it improves as long as it con- tinues to acquire a deeper shade of yel- low. Each heap should be examined prior to its being ground, and any de- cayed or green fruit carefully taken away. When the fruit of different sorts and qualities has been kept separate from one another a few weeks, it will be per- ceived that some of the.prime sorts are in a proper stale of maturation ; that the pulp has acquired its highest degree of richness; the kernels assumed their brownest colour; the rind still free from any appearance of rottenness ; and that they easily yield to the pressure of the thumb: then is the time, and such is the fruit to be employed in making prime cyder. Every necessary utensil should now be got in readiness; the mill, press, tubs, casks, pails, and bowls, well washed, and eaffered to dry thoroughly before they are employed in the busi- ness. Grinding the Apples,—In the business of grinding the fruit, for this use, into what is termed pommage, several differ- ent methods are practised. It has lieen suggested by some that each sort of apple should be ground separately, or,at least, such sorts, in mixture, as become ripe at the same time; but others state that this practice is that by which “ fine cyder, of different flavoursand degrees of strength, is obtained from the same orchard, the liquors being mixed after they are made.” It is, however, allowed that, “in all common cases,’’ the practice of grinding different varieties of fruit equally ripe together, is found eligible; as it is less difficult to find the requisite degrees of richness, asiringency and flavour, in three varieties, than in one. And hence it is supposed, that cyders made from the juice of mixed fruits, under common management, generally succeed with greater certainty than those from only one kind. In the grinding, the fruit should be reduced as nearly as po,«- sible, to an uniform consistence, in such a manner tis that the rinds and kernels may be scarcely discemable from the general mass; the operation proceeding slowly, with a free access of air. Preparing the Ground J'Yuil.—Cydensts do not all agree with regard to the exact time the pommage should be carried to213 ) C Y D C Y D the press ; the usual average is from about eigliteen to twenty-four hours ; at the end of this time the ground fruit or pommage is carried to tlie press, _aud a square cake or cheese made of it, by lacing very clean, sweet straw, or reeds, etween the various layers of pulp, or pommage, or by putting it into hair-cloths spread upon the vats, and placing them one on another. They are turned up on the sides and corners over the pulp, so as nearly to meet in the centres. They should be laid very even, and ten or twelve may be laid over each other in regular layers, the souare frame of the press being raised with them, keep- ing the pile to an uniform size. Upon the whole, a strong board is placed, wider than the pile, on which the blocks of the prei^s rest. It is of the utmost im- portance that the straw or reed, where they are used, should be sweet, and per- fectly free from any lustiness, lest the cyder be impregnated therewith. Parti- cular care ought also to be taken, to keep the hair-cloths sweet, by frequently washing and drying ; or the ill effects of their acidity will be communicated to the cyder. To this cake or cheese, after standing awhile, a slight pressure is at first to be given by lowering the screw of the press, which must be gradually in- creased as the cakes become dryer, until all the must or juice is expressed, which is usually completed by the long lever and windlass ; after which, thejuice must be strained through a coarse hair sieve, and put either into open vats, or close casks. Fementation. — Fermentation should not, by too much heat, be carried on too rapidly, nor by extreme cold, loo slowly ; as, in either case, the fermenting body would be injured; therefore, a certain degree of warmth, or rather impercepti- ble heat, conduces best to regulate this operation. This degree of warmth may be understood to rest between forty and fifty degrees of Fahrenheit’s thermome- ter ; new made cyder should therefore be put into a cellar according to this rule; the fermentation will then go on with due regulation. lYhen the liquor appears tolerably clear to the eye, and has a piquant, vi- nous sharpness on the tongue, then the least hissing noise heard in the ferment- ing liquor in this state, shews tlie place in which it stands is too warm, and air must be admitted. This is the critical moment for racking the liquor, which is done by drawing off the pure part into open vessels, which must be placed in a mope cool situation for a day or two, after which it may again be barrelled, and placed in some moderately cool situa- tion for the winter. In racking, it is advisable that the stream from the rack- ing cock be small, and that the receiving tub be but a small depth below the cock ; lest, by exciting a violent motion of the parts of the liquor, another fermentation be brought up. The casks into which the liquor is put, whenever racked off', should always be previously thoroughly scalded, and dried again; and each should want several gallons of being full, to expose a larger surface to the air. Having attended to these rules so far, the cyder will require very little further attention, beyond filling up the vessels every two or three weeks to supply the waste by the insensible fernientation, until the beginning of the succeeding March ; at which time, it may be reason- ably expected, the cyder will be bright, pure, and in a fit state for its final rack- ing. This should be done in fair weather; but should the cyder not prove as bright and as good a colour as desired, this is the lime for applying some innocent re- medy ; the best method is by putting two pounds of lump sugar into a hogshead of cyder. If you wish the cyder to be of a higher colour than what the fruit gives it, melt a pound of lump-sugar in a stew- pan, over a clear fire, stirring it fre- quently, until it comes to a very dark brown colour; then take it off the fire, andjUsit cools, add some cyderthereto, by little and little, continuing to stir it till it becomes a thin uniform fluid. About a pint of this colouring to a hogs- head of cyder, is sufficient. Soon after the spring racking, the casks may be gradually stopped, by first laying the cork on the bung-hole, and in the course of a few clays, forcing it very tightly into it, covering it over with melted resin, or any other similar substance. Bottling the Cyder.—This should be done in a month after the spring-rack- ing, when the liquor has acquireil in the cask its highest degree of perfection; then, when the weather is fair, the baro- meter high, and the wind in a northerly point, let the bottles be filled, setting tliem by uncorked until the morning; then let the corks be driven very tightly into the necks of the bottles, tied down with small strong twine or wire, and well secured with melted resin, or other material of the same nature. Cydeji Take very hard or sour cyder, (.is that yields the most spirit,) twelve gallons ; distil it the same as other spirits are distilled. Then, with a gentle fire, draw off' two gallons of cyder brandy or splints, to make royalDAB D A M ( 214 ) cyder. _ You may distil on as long as any spirits will run, lor other uses. Cyder iSioee^s.— Beat up the whites of forty eggs, and mix them with eight gallons of water; put to these half a hundred weight of sugar, put half the sugar into half the egg water, set it over a gentle fire, and stir it about till it is dissolved; then put in more egg water to keep it from boiling too high: putting in a quart at a time, till all the egg wa- ter is used ; skim it as it rises, and when it has done rising, and the sweets are clear, add the rest of the water, and boil it to the consistency of a syrup. Cyder Vinegar.*—Take about six pounds of sour le.aven, made with yeast and rye flour; dilute it with warm water, and pour it through the bung-hole into a large cask of cyder; put a large stick into the bung-hole, and stir it about well to mix the leaven with the cyder; then let it stand to ferment for a week; at the end of that time you will have a strong cyder vinegar, which must be drawn oil' immediately. CYPRUS WINE {to imitate). —"Vq nine gallons of water, put nine quarts of the juice of white elder berries, which has been pressed gently from the ber- ries, and passed through a sieve without bruising the kernels of the berries ; add to every gallon of the liquor three pounds of Lisbon sugar; to the whole quantity put an ounce and a half of ginger sliced, and three quarters of an ounce of cloves ; tlien boil this near an hour, taking off the scum as it rises, and pour the whole to cool in an open tub, and work it with ale yeast, spread upon a toast of white bread, for three days, and then tun it into a vessel thatwill just hold it, adding about a pound and a half of raisins of the sun split, to lie in liquor till you draw it off, which should not be till the wine is fine, which you will find in January. D. DABS Fried.—Put oil, rendered lard or dripping, into a frying pan, suffi- cient to cover the fish ; let the fat boil before the fish is put in; dry the fish well with a cloth, and flour it; when fried, lay it on a cloth to drain. Dabs Stewed. — Clean the dabs, and cut olfthe fins; putlhem intoa stewpan, with as much water as will cover them ; put to them an anchovy split, a blade of mace, some salt, a spoonful of lemon- juice, and a shalot; let these simmer very slowly till they are done enough, skim them very clean, lav them to drain ina dish,but keep them hot; thenstrain off the liquor into the stewpan, put to it a piece of butter rolled in flour, a spoon- ful of catsup, some pickled mushrooms, and a glass of white wine; let it bnil till it is of a proper thickness ; if there is any scum take it off, and pour the sauce over the fish. DAMSONS —Gather them on adry day beforetheyare ripe, when they have just turned their colour. Put them in wide-mouthed bottles, cork them close, and let them stand a fortnight; then carefully examine them, and if any of them are mouldy or spotted, take them out of the bottles, and cork the rest close. Put the bottles in sand, and they will keep good till the spring. Damsons Candied.—After they have been preserved, dip them in warm brandy to wash off the syrup ; then sift fine sugar over them, and set them to dry in a stove or oven. Do this, taking them out three or four times, and sift sugar over them, but do not let them be cold before they are quite dry. Damson Cheese.*—Take eight pounds of damsons, and bake them in a jar till they are tender; then rub them through a cullender, put to them one pound and a half of lump sugar, and let them boil to the thickness of marmalade. Damsons Dried.—Take damsons that you have preserved, drain all the s>TUp from them, cover the bottoms of sieves with them, and put them into stoves which should be hot, change the sieves every day till they are dry, and as you change the sieves turn the damsons, and when they are not sticky nor likely to give, take them out, paper a box and put them in, and lay a paper be- tween each layer of damsons. Damsons Dried.—.Make a thin syrup, let it boil, and skim it, then stone your damsons, and put them into the syrup ; boil them up once, then le.nve them in the syrup; make another syrup nfith some refined sugar, with just suflirient water to damp it; boil this syrup till it is candied, then take the damsons out of the first syrup, and put them into the syrup you Imve just made; let them sim- mer in it a little over the fire, and leave them in afterwards, till the following day; then place them one by one on a sieve, and dry them upon a stove or in nearly a cold oven, turning them twice a day. ’ When ttiey are dry, place them by layers, into boxes, with paper Iwtween each layer: keep them in a dry, cool place. , Damson Drops.—Pot some damsons in the oven to bake, but not so much as to birak ; then skin and stone them, and pass them through a sieve ; sift someDAM ( 215 ) D A R common loaf sugar through a lawn sieve, and mix with them ; make it very thick, drop them off your knife on paper, and put them on the stove to dry ; when they are quite dry, turn them on a sieve, and wet tlie outside of the paper, and they will come off easily; put them into the stove again till they are quite dry and hard, and then put them into pa- pered boxes. Damson Diimplin^s^ — Make a good hot paste crust, roll it pretty thin, lay it in a basin, and put in as many damsons as you please. Wet the edge of the paste and close it up; boil it in a cloth for an hour; pour melted butter over it, grate sugar round the edge of the dish, and S6rv6» Damson Ice (Cream). — Take three ounces of preserved damsons, pound and break the stones of them, put them into a basin, squeeze in two lemons, and a pint of cream; press them through a sieve, and freeze it. Damson Ice{IVater).—Take a quarter of a pound of preserved damsons and break the stones; put them into a basin, squeeze in one lemon, add nearly a pint of water, and half a gill of syrup ; pass it through a sieve, and freeze it rich. Damson Jelly. — To eight pounds of damsons, put eight pounds of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil them for half an hour over a gentle fire, till the skins break ; then take them off, and set them by for an hour ; set them on the fire again, for half au hou r more ; set them by again for the same time ; do so the third time ; while they stand off the fire, put a weight upon them to keep them under the syrup. The last time, you must boil them till you perceive they are of a very high colour in the part where the skin is broken; then take them off', set them hy to cool, and when they are cold, drain off the. syrup, and make the jelly in the following manner: —Boil a good quantity of green apples, green gooseberries, and quince cores, to a mash ; then strain them through a hair sieve. Take an equal quantity of this jelly and the former syrup, and boil them over a gentle fire together till they jelly ; sliim it well, and while it is hot, put it into gla.sses or pots. Damsons to keep.—Put them in small stone jars or wide-mouthed bottles ; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when they are quite cold, fill up with spring-water, and cover them closely. Damsons (/op-cserw).*—Put a quart of damsons, with half a pound ol loaf Kug.ar powdered fine, into a deep pot. with a layer of damsons; then strew in a handful of sugar, till you have put in what quantity you like; tie them close down ; set them in an oven or in_a pot of water over the fire; let them infuse till they are all melted; let them stand till cold, then drain the juice from them, boil it up well, and strain it till clear ; put it to your damsons, let them stand till cold, put a brandy paper over them, and cover the pot with a wet bladder. Damson Pttdding.—Make a paste, and lay it in a basin ; then fill it with ripe or bottled damsons, cover it with paste, boil it, and when it is ready to serve, cut a piece out of the top, mix with the fruit sifted sugar to the palate, and a small quantity of pounded cinnamon or grated nutmeg. Damson Pudding.—To a pint of cream or milk, add six eggs, four table-spoons- ful of sifted flour, a little salt, a little pounded cinnamon, and whisk them well together. Then take some ripe or bot- tled damsons, rub them through a hair- sieve, add to the mixture a sufficient quantity of the fine pulp, to make it, in sub.stance, a little thicker than batter; sweeten it according to your taste, put it into a buttered basin, flour a cloth and tie over, let it boil for an hour and a quarter, and when you serve, turn it out of the basin, and pour melted butter all over. Damson Tart. — Make a nice crust, lice your dish, put in thefruit, and finish the same as for any other fruit pie. Damsons IVhole., IVet.—Take some of the largest and best damsons, and prick them at each end, boil some syrup on a brisk fire, in a preserving pan, for a quar- ter of an hour; then put your damsons in, and boil them for twenty minutes; put them in an earthen pan, cover them up with paper, (as they boil, skim them well); the next day strain the syrup from them, and let it have a good boil; then put the damsons into pots, and, when cold, put some apple jelly over them. Damson JVme,—Gather the damsons on a dry day, and bruise them. Tut them into a stein, with a cock in it, and to every eight pounds of fruit, add a gallon of boiling water. In two d.ays you may draw it oil', and put it ints a vessel, and to every gallon of the liquor, add two pounds and a half of fine sugar. Fillup the vessel, and slop it up close. Keep it in a cool cellar for twelve months, then bottle it, putting a lump of sugar into each bottle. Cork them well, and it will be fit for use in two months .after. DARIOLS.*—Put ratlier more than halfa quartern of flour upon a pie-board, with a quarter of a pound of butter, aD I A 216 D I S little enlt, and ca glass of water: work the whole together, so as to make a firm paste, and then roll it to the thick- ness of half a finger: cut it into bits about the size of a small patty-pan, and with your hands form them into moulds, having an edge raised about an inch deep; put them intoauovenofamoderate heat, and in about seven minutes after- wards, put into each half a pint oj cream, niixed with two spoonsful of flour, very little salt, and one ounce of sugar; when done, strew sugar over them. DEER {to Dress the Umbles of).— Take the kidneys of a deer, with the fat of the heart; season them with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; first fry them, and afterwards stew them in some good gravy, till they are tender; squeeze in a little lemon ; take the skirts, and stuft" them with a forcemeat, made with the fat of the venison, some fat of bacon, and grated bread, pepper, mace, sage, and onion, chopped very small: mix it with the yolk of an egg; when the skirts are stufl'ed with this forcemeat, tie them to the spit to roast, but first lard them with thyme and lemon-peel; when they' are done, lay the skirts in the middle of the dish, the fricassee round it. DENTS de Loup.*—Fold two sheets of paper lengthways, like a fan, then double, and butter the paper, and spread it open. Break two eggs into a pan, and mix with them four spoonsful of powder- sugar, two of flour, and the grated rind of two lemons, when well mixed, add a quarter of a pound of melted butter. Take a spoonful of this preparation, and pour it on the edge of your paper, guid- ing it along the folds with your finger; then take another spoonful, and do the same, leaving a space between each fold, that they may not toucri in baking; sprinkle them with sugared aniseed, and bake them in a well-heated oven ; shake them from the paper carefully, so ns not to break them, as soon as they come from the oven. DEVONSHIRE miite Pof. —Beat up a pint of cream with four eggs, a little salt, some sliced nutmeg, and a good deal of sugar-; then slice very thin, almost the whole of the crumb of a penny loaf; put it into a dish; pour the eggs and cream to it: a handful of raisins of the sun boiled, and a little sweet butter; bake it. DIABLOTINS.—Found some choco- late, with a little olive oil, into a still' paste, of which, take small pieces, and roll them in your hands, into the shape of nuts, olives, &c. either round or flat; strew over them nonpareils of dillercnt colours, and dry them in cases like other sweetmeats. Diablotinb.* — Take a cold vanilla cream renversee (see that recipe), and when quite cold, cut it into dice ; throw these into flour: cover them well, and fry them a little in a hot pan ; when tolerably black, drain; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them. Diablotinb eti Caniiellons.*—Take six ounces of filberts, blanch and pound them, adding, by degrees, three glasses of boiling cream ; then press them through a napkin, to extract as much milk from them as you possibly can, which pour (a little at a time), on two spoonsful of rice- flour ; mix them well; take care there are no lumps; and having added three ounces of powder-sugar, and a grain of salt, set the whole over a moderate fire for thirty or forty minutes, stirring it constantly, when it will have become a firm smooth paste. Pour it on a slightly buttered slab; spread it out with a knife, making it about three quarters of an inch thick. When it is quite cold, cut it into pieces about three inches long, and three quarters of an inch wide; sprinkle them with flour; roll them round lightly; dip one at a time into batter, (the same as what you use for Fritters d la Parisitnne), and fry' them in a hot p'-.n; when they are of a nice colour, drain them on a napkin ; sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them either in the oven or with a salamander. DISTILLING.* — Distillation is the process of extracting the spirituous and aromatic particles, from various sub- stances and liquids in which they are enveloped, and likewise separating them from earthy and saline particles, with which they are mixed. This process is performed by means of heat; and the vapour-lath, water-lath, and sand-lath, are the three methods usually prac- tised. The ATipoiir-bath produces the most moderate degree of iieat necessary for distilling. A metal; or earthen vessel, filled to about two-thb-ds with water, is set on a furnace, over this i.s pl.aced tlie alemlic. containing the substance to !« distilled ; as soon as the water bolls, the vapour rises, and striking the bottom of the alembic communicates its heat there- to, which forces the volatile or lighter parts of its conteiiis to rise, and separate themselves from the grosser ones. The water-bnth is more commonly marie use of than the above, being less dillicult to manage ; and in ni-tdling plants or flowers, «hich are lianie to burn, or are heavy, and requtre liqum, it is far better than the other. The water-bath dillers from the va- pour-bath in this respect, that the alcm-D I S f 217 ) D R A bic is immersed in the water, wlucli instantly communicates the degree of heat it receives. The Sand-bath is resorted to when a very strong degree of heat is neces- sary; a vessel filled with sand is placed on the fire, and the alembic completely buried in it; this last process, however, requires the utmost precaution. Glass, or earthen vessels, are pre- ferable in distilling waters ; but if they are not suffieiently large to contain the whole of the liquid, copper ones, if well tinned, may be employed instead. Earthen vessels should be perfectly baked, free from blemish, and previously proved. Great care is necessary that the fire be not too fierce at the commencement of the operation, as the vessels employed are liable to bre.ak when exposed sud- denly to a strong heat; the fire should therefore be increased gradually. Observe, that when a substance re- quires repeated distillation, the fire should be increased for each operation. Also observe : that the distilled liquid ought to flow from the alembic in one continued, though small stream; jf it come by drops only, the liquor obtained will be but slightly impregnated with the essential oil. The first drops which flow from the alembic are called phlegm, and should not be mixed with the distilled liquid ; it is therefore better to place a small glass under the mouth of the alembic; when nearly half filled, remove it, and put the vessel in which the distilled substance is to je received. The various vessels used in distilling ougiit to be very closely cemented to- gether; the material for this purpose is called lute ; and is also used to put over the corks of the bottles containing spi- rituous liquors. The best hite is made with linseed oil, a small quantity of litharge, to give it dryness, and very dry clay reduced to powder; by beating these ingredients well m a mortar, a thick paste is produced, which is easily spread over the edges of the vessels, and effectually excludes the air- This paste will continue moi.st and ductile for a long time. Another lute is composed of clny,sand, and cow-hair, or hemp ; tliis is generally used to put over such vessels as are liable to crack, or melt, on being exposed to very strong bent. _ Lulmn Supientio! is made of slacked lime, flour, and clay, finely pulverised and sifted; bound together with whites of eggs, beaten up with water. The best method of excluding the air from bottles, is, by dipping the corks in a mi.xture of white wax and beef-suet, in the proportion of two-thirds of the for- mer to one-third of the latter; and then, when the corks are well driven into the bottles, to cover them with the first- mentioned lute. DOTTERELS. — They are to be roasted the same as Ortolans. DOVES.—The turtle-dove is distin- guished by a blueish ring round its neck, the otlier parts being almost white. The stock-dove-exceeds both the wood-pigeon and ring-dove in size. When they are fresh and fat, they are limber-footed, and feel full in the vent; but when stale, their vents are green and flabby. DRAGEES (Co?n?no«).*—The paste for these dragees is made in the same manner as for the better sort, but the materials differ a little : thus to a quar- ter of a pound of the gum, take either equal quantities of sugar and powder, or one-third of the former to two-thirds of the latter. W'hen these and the gum are well mixed, roll out the paste until it is as thin as the back of a knife-blade; then take a paste-cutter, shaped like a sugar-loaf, with the top taken o£F, with tlie largest end of which, cut as many pieces of the paste as will about two- tliirds fill the cutter; press these through the smaller end into paper cases; set them in a warm place for several days. These kind of dragees may, if liked, be sugared in the same manner as almonds. Dragees en Pastillage.*—These dra- gees are made of the same materials as the superfine dragees; the only differ- ence consists in their forms, which resemble the bonbotis: to make them, it is necessary to have a number of wooden moulds, (pear-tree wood is the best), on which must be stamped small squares, with various devices engravedon them. Cut your paste into small pieces: press each piece on a mould ; take off all the super-abundant paste ; then dip your finger in water, and with it remove the paste from the mould ; dry them in cases like the other dragees. Dragees, Superfine,*—Vut a quarter of a pound of the best gum-dragon into a pan, witli a pint of cold water, cover, and let It stand for twenty-four hours; then take a strong close cloth, about two feet long, and put a part of your gum into it; fold it three tinaes, so as to envelop the gum; then wring the cloth, by 'vhicli means the purest gum will be forced tlimugli; scrape it off'carefully with a knife, and then proceed in the snine way, until all the gum he strained ; put it into a marble mortar, and stir it about with a pestle for linlf an hour; then add to it a218 DUG D U C pound of double-refined sifted sugar; mix them together well, until it becomes a stiff paste; divide this into five parts, four of which must be tinged as follows : red, blue, yellow, and green, (the fifth left white), witli the usual colouring ma- lei'ials. Before, however, they are co- loured, add to each piece, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, sifted, dipping the paste in water occasionally, to enalde it to receive the additional quantity of sugar. When you mix in the colouring materials, add also a corre- sponding perfume ; as, to the red, rose- water, and a few drops of essence of roses; to the blue, oil of violets; to the yellow, essence of cedar ; to the green, essence of bergamot; and with the white, mix a little orange-flower water, and some drops of essence of Neroli. Your paste being thus prepared, form it of whatever little ornaments you please, such as eggs, balls, turnips, (adding green leaves to these), &c.of the white; of the yellow, apricots, pears, carrots, &c.; plums, &c. of the blue ; and so on ; rolling them in your hands to smooth them, and make them all quite small; to those which imitate fruits, add tails and tops, cut from cherry-stalks, and stuck on whilst the paste is damp; and with a hair- pencil, dipped in powdered cinnabar, tinge the pears, apples, and apricots, slightly breathing on them to moisten the surface. When all are done, put them into paper cases, and set them in a warm place for several days, to dry. DUCK en Aiguillettes.*—When the duck is about three parts done, accord- ing to the directions for duck poe/e, drain and place it on the dish; then iiiak eight incisions on the breast, four on each side ; take a tea-spoonful of shalots shred fine, put them into astewpan with twolarilesful oi blond, pepper, nutmeg, and salt; boil them togetlier a little while, add the juice of two lemons, and pour this sauce on the breast, so that it may flow into the incisions. Duck, Fillets of, en Allumettes.*— Cut the meat nfl' a roasted duck, into long fillets, dip them in good liatter, and fry tiiem in fresh butter of a good colour; as soon as they are done, strew over them some fine salt, and having fried some chervil for five minutes in tlie same pan, lay it in a dish, witli the fillets on it, arranged like bundles of matches. Ducks, 7fo/7c</.—Take a nice tat duck; salt it two days, ilien let it boil slowly in aciolli. Serve it witli onion sauce, but melt the hulter nilh milk, iii.stcad of wjitrr. Duck. Uoiled d la Franqaisc.—Vni wo dozen of roaslcu chesnuts into a pint of rich beef gravy, with a few leaves of thyme, two small onions, if agreeable, a little whole pepper, and a bit of ginger; then take a tame duck, lard it, and half roast it; put it into the gravy, and let it stew for ten minutes; put in a quarter of a pint of red wine; when the duck is done enough take it out. boil up the gravy to a proper thickness; skim ofl' the fat, lay the duck in a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Ducks, Braised.*—Lard two_ young ducks, and place them in a braising-pan with a slice of ham, onions, salt, pepper, a bay-leaf, and a glass of stock ; close the pan, and let it stand over a gentle fire till done; serve them with tlieir own liquor. Morels, capers, and artichoke- bottoms may he added, they must be cooked separately in consomme or veal gravy. Ducks u la Bruxelles.*—Cwt a veal sweetbread and some streaked bacon into ■dice, and mix them with some mush- rooms, green onions, parsley, and two shalots, all shred fine, some salt, and whole pepper; put the whole into the inside of the duck; sew it up to prevent any from falling out, and stew the duck, with a thin slice of bacon on its breast, with a large glass of white wine, as much stock, two onions, a carrot, half a par- snip, and a bundle, of sweet herbs. When done, strain off'the sauce, skim, and add a little cullis to thicken it. Ducks, to choose.—Their feet should be supple, and they should be hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to a dusky yellow. The feet ol a wild duck are reddish, .and smaller than the tame; they should be. picked dry. Duck- lings should be scalded. Duck ( CuUis o/).—Roast a duck, and then pound it in a mnrt.ar; then fry some rashers of bacon to a nice brown, and put them into a stc.vpan with a handful of lentils, a clove of garlic, a few cloves, and some savory, let them all stew toge- ther ; when ihcy have stewed .some time, pound them witli the meat of the duck, and toss them up in a pan with melted lard ; put in some veal gravy to give it a pale colour, ami strain it. DUCKLINGS d la Cur/nclitc.*-'Urd. the fleshy parts of a couple of young ducks, and put them into a stewpaa with cquid quantities of hrotli .and white wine, a little coriander-.=eed. a slice or two Ilf leiiiiin. and some truflles. cover your pan, and stew them. M hen done, take oil'the fat, ami serve with their own j;rnvy. Duck, dressed in different trnys.—■< 'l ake either a large duck, er two luck-219 )' DUG DUG liiiRS, which truss like a fowl for boiling! put it into a pot (just about large enougti to hold the duck) with th.iii slices of bacon, a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, salt, onions, carrots, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a bay-leaf; when done, take out tlie duck, wipe the fatolf very clean, and serve with what sauce or ra- gofit you choose, such as sweetbreads, green-pease, turnips, chesnuts, olives, cucumbers, or any sort of stewed greens, according to the season. Ducks, Fricasseed- — Quarter them, beat them well with the back of a knife, dry them well, fry them in fresh butter; when they are almost done, put in some onions shred small, and a little thyme; add a little claret, tiiin slices of bacon, par-sley and spinach, boiled green, and shred small. Break the yolks of three eg7S into a dish, with a little pepper, find some grated nutmeg, toss them up with a latllefiil of drawn butter; pour this over the ducks, lay the bacon upon them, and serve. Duckling, Fricasseed.—Cut the duck- lings into small pieces, dry them, flour them, and fry them in butter; then talte a little canary, some parsley, and onion, chopped small; a little whole pepper, and a blade of mace; add to these some sugar, butter, and verjuice ; then pick the stalks off from a good handful of clary ; make a batter of three or four eggs, flour, and cream, with a little nutmeg; fry these, and having placed your duckling on a dish, pour the fried clary, &c. upon them, and serve. Duck, Fillets of, and Truffles.*—Hav- ing mt your fillets, toss them up in a little butter, tVith parsley and shalois, shred fine. 'I'ake a dozen of truffles, soak them in white wine, and slice them; place a layer of ihe fillets into a stewpan, then a layer of the sliced truffles, and 80 on, alternately (strewinu small pieces of fresh butter on the truffles), until all your materials are used ; cook them over a slow fire till done, when place them in tli6 dish fur table; pour white wine and consomme, of each lialf a glass, into the same stewpan, boil them toge- ther for about a quarter of an hour; skim, and then pour it over the fillets. Duck en Grenade.*—Hnnn a duck, beginning with the back, without break- ing the skin ; and cut the whole of the meat into dice; do the same with truf- fles, veal sweetbreads, breast of fowl, and bacon; cook these over a gentle fire, with sail, pepper, and nutmeg, add the yolks of tliree eggs to thicken it, stir it well, and then put it in the skin of the duck, giving it the form of a balloon oi' oval, ia.sten up the ends, and cook it like a fricaiideanx, over a slow fire ; re- duce the gravy that it yields to a jelly, and glaze your duck with it, and add to the sauce consomme, veal gravy, &c. Duck, Hashed.—Cat, a duck in pieces, and flour it; put in a stewpan some gravy, a little port wine, shalots chop- ped fine, salt, pepper, and a bit of lemon ; boil this ; then put in the duck, toss it up, take out the lemon, and serve with toasted sippets. Duck, Hashed in different TVays.— Roast a couple of ducks till they are three parts done, .and let them cool; then cut the breast in thin slices, taking care to preserve the gravy ; the legs will serve for another dish, which you may dress by wrapping them in a cowl with a good farce, and serve with cullis sauce ; for the slices you have cut from the breast, cut cucumbers, and marinate them about an hour with a little vinegar, salt, and one onion sliced; then take out the onion, squeeze the cucumbers in a cloth, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a slice of bam, a little stock, flour, and veal gravy ; boil slowly, skim it well, take out the ham, and then put in the duck to warm, with- out boiling. You may likewise do the same with chopped truffles or mush- rooms, or any thing else you may think proper, according to the season. A cold roasted duck will answer much the same purpose for this dish. Duck in Hotch-pot.*—Cut a duck into quarters, and stew it in a small pot, with some turnips, the quarter of a cabbage, parsnips, carrots, and onions sliced, (all parboiled,) some good stock, a bit of streaked bacon cut in slices, with the rind left on, a Imnch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the whole is done, put the duck into a tureen, and the ve- getables round it; skim the fat oil' the liquor in which the vegetables were stewed ; add a little cullis to thicken the sauce, which must be served over the duck. T>WTi., Fillets of, Ala Majnelle.*—C\\t the fillets from two or three young ducks, about two thirds roasted, taking care to collect the gravy, and put it into a stew- pan ; add to it half a glass of white wine, the same of veal gravy, or good consomme, a liver, two truffles, both cut small, salt and spices; let these stand over a slow lire to thicken ; put your ducks in, and linish cooking them, taking care that the sauce only simmers the wliole lime. f)vc\ifi,hroiledv)ith Mushrooms.—Th& inside being taken out of .a couple of ducks, torn the legs under the skin, and U 2DUG ( 220 ) DUG with a knife, divide them in two, by cut- ting them down tiie middle ; beat them with a wooden spoon, dip them in some good clarified butter, and lay them on the gridiron over a gentle charcoal fire. The inside must lay towards the fire till nearly done; then turn them on the other side; let them be of a nice brown colour ; and whilst they are broiling, every now and then, sprinkle pepper and salt over them; when done, lay them on the dish, and pour mushroom sauce over them. Duck loith Olives*—Prepare and dress your duck as in Poe.le ; take the meat of the olives from the stone, like a cork- screw, being careful not to break it, that it may_return to its proper form; throw them into hot water, and give thena a boil, or put them into a saucepan with four spoonsful of espagnole, twice as much conso7nme, and a little pepper; reduce this to a third, over a fierce tire ; put it to the duck, and keep it hot in the ham-marie. Ducks, witk Oysters. — Take wild ducks, truss them, make a ragofit with veal sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, and oysters, seasoned with fine herbs and parsley; when it is almost done, farce the ducks with it; tie them up well, and roast them ; serve them very hot, with a mushroom cullis poured all over. Ducks, with young Pease.—Well roast two ducks, then neatly cut them up all but the back bone, and put them in a Btewpan with young pease, that have been well stewed in plenty of cream sauce ; shake in a liaison of the yolks of two eggs, with a little cream, and serve them in a tureen or a dish, with a good border of paste. Duck Ph'e Douillet.* — Take a duck, and put it into a stewpan just large enough to hold it, with a bunch of par- sley and green onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, basil, some cloves, some coriander-seeds, sliced onions, a carrot, a parsnip, a slice of butter, two glasses of stock, and one glass of white wine; then reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, and serve it over the duck. Ducks au Pure Douillet.*—Lard a couple of young ducks, and till them with &farce made as follows;—chop up the meat of a fowl, the two livers ol the ducks, two sausages, a little ham, and five or six truffles, previously beilcd in red wine ; mix these with the yolks of eggs, with here and there a little sliced lemon, and a pinch of coriander-seed; fasten this in as usual, and roast them. Duck Pie.—Bona a full grown duck. and bone also a fowl; wash them, season them with pepper, salt, and a small ijuantity of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl witliinside the duck, and into the fowl pat a calf’s tongue, pickled red, boiled very tender, and peeled; press the whole close; the skins of the legs must be drawn inwards, that the body of the duck and fowl may be quite smooth. If you choose, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat; let it bake in a slow oven, either in a raised crust or pie-dish witn a thick crust or- namented according to taste. Duck P/e.—Scald a couple of ducks, and make them very clean ; cut off the feet, pinions, necks, and heads. Take out the gizzards, livers, and hearts; pick all clean, and scald them. I’ick out the fat of the inside, lay a good pufl-pasie crust all over the dish, season the ducks both inside and out, with pepper and salt, and lay them in the dish, with the giblets at each end, properly seasoned. Put in as much water as will nearly fill the pie, lay on the crust, and let it be well baked. Duck Pie.—Prepare a couple of ducks the same as for roasting, and parboil them ; then lard them with large lardons of bacon, and the lean of ham, seasoned with pepper, salt, spice, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred small; make your paste, roll it out an inch thick, raise your pie; lay all over the bottom of it pounded bacon seasoned with salt, pep- per, spices, sweet herbs, and parsley, shred fine; then lay in the ducks, and fill up the spaces with mutton cutlets, larded and seasoned, with the above- mentioned seasoning; then strew some of the same seasoning over the ducks and cutlets, and lay thin slices of veal over the whole, and thin slice.s of bacon over the veal; then put in a piece of butter; lay the lid on the pie, and put it in the oven ; let it stand four or five hours in the oven; while it is baking, make a ra- gofU of mushrooms, truffles, cock’s- combs, livers, and sweetbreads, tossed up in a stewpan, with melted lard, moistened with gravy; let these simmer overa gentle fire for half an hour, skim oil'the fat, and thicken it with a cullis of veal and ham. When the pie comes out of the oven, place it in a dish, cut it open, take out the bacon and veal, take oil’ the fat that swims at the top; pour in the ragoflt, and serve the pie hot. Ducklinq Pie.—Scald two ducklings, and clean them properly, and cut them into quarters, and put them into a pic upon a good farce, with two slices^ of peeled lemon over them to keep white.( 221 ) DUG DUG U J and season the same as for other poul- try ; mix two ({lasses of white wine, \vilh some good cuilis, and boil it some time together to reduce it to a good consist- ence. Serve this sauce in the pie. Ducks, Foeles Sauce Digarade.* — The ducks being singed, drawn, and trussed, as usual, rub the breasts with lemon-juice, and lay them in a stewpan with slices of bacon under and over them, and cook them in a poe/e, but do not Cut them on the fire until about an hour efore dinner. When ready for table, place them on your dish, and pour over tliein the following sauce; three ladies- ful of espagmle travaille, a little pepper, the juice, and part of the rind of a Se- ville orange; give it one boil only before you use it. Ducklings en Purie.*—Truss a cou- ple of dncklings like chickens, and hav- ing made a light farce of white meats and bacon pounded, lettuce, salt, pep- per, &c. fill the ducklings v/ith it, wrap them in slices of bacon, and do them in a pint of stock over a gentle fire. Boil some young pease in veal gravy, add to them shred parsley, sweet herbs,savory, &c.; when done, rub them through a sieve, and serve your ducklings with the puree round them. DUCK d la puree de Lentilles*— Prepare the duck as for poc/es, and hav- ing laid it in a saucepan on slices of ba- con, cover it with the sauce, and a few slices of fillet of veal, with two carrots, three onions, two cloves, a bay leaf, a little thyme, parsley and scallions ; pour on this a ladleful of broth, and leave it for three quarters of an hour or longer, if necessary. When done, dish it, and pour either over or under it, according to its plumpness and delicacy, a puree of len- tils. Ducks Roasted, — Season them with sage and onion shred, pepper and salt; half an hour will roast them. Gravy- sauce or onion sauce. Always stew the sage and onion in a little water, as it pre- vents its eating strong, and takes ofl'the rawness ot them. Ducklings Roasted.—They must not be seasoned ; they will be roasted in ra- ther less than half an hour. Serve with gravy and gooseberry sauce. Ducklings Rolled. — Make a good forcemeat of roasted poultry, cut a good sized duckling in two, bone it, and lay the farce upon it; roHitup, tie slices of bacon round it, and boil it in a little stock, with a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two cloves; when done, squeeze the fat gently out, and wipe the duck clean ; serve with what sauce you please. Duck /Pi'W.—These birds should be fat, the claws small, reddish and supple ; if not fresh, on opening the beak they will smell disagreeable ; the breast and rump should be firm and heavy; the flesh of the hen-bird is the most delicate, though the cock generally fetches the highest price. Pick them dry, cut the wings very close to (he body, take oil the necks, draw and singe them, truss up the legs and skewer them ; and having rubbed them with their livers, spit, and roast them ; take them up with the gravy in, and serve with lemons. Ducks fFild. — The entrails being taken out of the wild ducks, wipe them well with a cloth ; put into the inside a bitofbutter rolled in pepper and salt; when trussed, spit, and roast them quickly for a quarter of an hour, which will be enough, as the gravy should not run out before they are taken up; shake flour and salt over them, and froth them with butter. Put good strong gravy un- der them, and you may serve them with hot port wine in a boat. Duck fFild.— Half roast them ; when they are brought to table slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour over them a little port wine, and stjueeze the juice of an orange or lemon over; add some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, cut up the bird, let it remain over the lamp till done, now and then turning it. D\3CK{fFild) Fillets of, d I’ Orange.*— Take the breasts of four wild ducks with the skins on, and soak them in oil, with salt, pepper, an onion, and some parsley. About an hour before dinner time skewer and tie them on a spit, and roast them for half an hour ; then cut tl’.em in fillets, leaving the skin on ; put these into a little jelly, keep them hot without boil- ing, and when wanted for table, arrange them in a dish, and serve with orange sauce under them. Duck {fFild) Salmis of.*—Cut off the best parts of a couple of roasted wild ducks, and put the rest of the moat into a mortar, with six shalots, a little parsley, some pepper, and a bay-leaf, pound all these ingredients together well, and then put them into a saucepan with four latlles- lull of espagnole, half a glass of white wine, the same of broth, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce these to half, strain them, and having laid the pieces on a dish, cover them with the above: keep the whole hot, not boiling, until wanted for table. 'DvcK{fFild.) Salmisof, au Chasseur.* —Cut the meat of two wild ducks into small pieces, lay them in salt and (lep- per, and pour on them four spoonsful of olive-oil, and half u glass of Bordeau.x( 222 ) D U M DUG wine; squeeze over them the juice of two lemons, stir the whole together well, and serve. Duck and Sauer Kraut.*—Wash and put two pounds of sauer krautinto a sauce- pan, with streaky bacon, sausages and a servelas, moisten them with rich skim- mings, boil it for three hours, then take out the servelas and sausages, and put in a couple of ducks, properly singed and trussed, and let them simmer for an hour; then drain them and the sauer kraut, place the latter round the ducks, on it the bacon, servelas, and sausages. Ducks {tVild!) Scallops of Fillets of.*— Take the fillets of three wild ducks, and cut them into round scallops, which should be beaten with the handle of the knife, and thenflaid in a pan, with four spoonsful of olive oil, and well covered with pepper and salt, lay an oiled paper over, and just before ihev are wanted, toss up your scallops ; when both sides are brown drain off the oil, cover the. scallops with a %ooApoivrade, add a small quantity of oil and lemon juice; put some bread fried in oil in the dish, and serve them. Ducks Stewed with Red Cabbage.*— Singe and truss your ducks, pepper and salt the inside, and let them stew very gently for an hour and a half or two hours, in some good braise that beef or cutlets have been stewed in. Whilst they are stewing, shred a cabbage very fine, wash it, and let it drain fora few minutes on a sieve, put it to stew with a good piece of butter, and some pepper and salt, in a steivpan very closely covered, shaking every three or four minutes. In case it should get dry and burn at the bottom, add nearly a ladleful of good stock ; when well done and tender, mi.K in a small glass of vinegar, lay it on the dish, and the ducks over it; cover it, and serve it to table. Ducks Tame.—They may be dressed in the same manner as geese, with sage and onion, and apple in a sauce boat; or, you rnay stuff it with fried sausages or parboiled chesnuts, and then roast it. Ducks ivith Truffles.*—Singe and truss neatly a couple of fine ducks, and having some trullles stewed with chopped pars- ley, thyme, and mushrooms, put a few of them inside the ducks; spit them with bards of bacon all over them, and roast them with truffle?, and serve them with a sauce d I’espagnole, or brown sauce. Wild ducks may be dressed in the same manner. Duck and Turnips.* — This dish is prepared exactly in the same way as with S.purie of lentils, with the addition of five or six turnips in the stewpan, and substituting a ragofit of turning for the puree of lentils, which, as in that recipe, must not cover the duck, if it be very white and plump. Ducks with Vegetables.* — Take the fillets, (cut crosswise) from a couple of roasted ducks, and soak them for half an hour in water and vinegar with salt; then boil your vegetables, whether pease, turnips, cucumbers, &c., with stock or veal gravy, and when tolerably rich, put in the fillets for a quarter of an hour, then add the juice of a lemon, and serve very hot. DUMPLINGS Hard.—U\yi as for a paste, some flour with small beer or water, and a little salt; roll them in balls rather larger than an egg; when the water boils put them in : lialf an hour will boil them; currants may be added; they are good boiled with beef. They are eaten either with cold or melted butter. Dumplings Norfolk.—With a pint of milk, two eggs, a little salt, and some flour, make a batter; drop this in .small quantities into a potof boiling water; they will be boiled in three minute.s; throw them into a sieve or cullender to drain. Dujipling Paste.—Make a paste with flour, milk, salt and yeast; let it stand some time in a warm place to ferment; then cut the paste into pieces of what size you please, and boil them a good while ; let them cool; then cut each into two, and soak them in milk, sugar, and lemon-peel, about an hour, and drain and flour them fit for frying ; or, you may dip them in oil or melted butter to broil, basting with the same as they were dipped in. Du-mpling Paste Pie.—Make a puff- paste with flour, eggs, butter, salt, and culd water; when it is well worked, let it stand some time ; then roll half of it in very thin sheets, and cut it into small pieces ; put them into Itoiling water with a little salt, let them boil a few minutes, and take care to separate them in boil- ing ; then put them in fresh water a mo- ment, and drain it out; make a pie of the remainder of the paste, with butter and Parmesan cheese at the bottom; then a layer of the sc.alded paste, and one of truffles or mushrooms, mixed with butter, then more paste, and so continue, till all is laid one over the other ; finish with the butter and cheese, cover it over with paste like all other pies, and let it bake an hour and a half in a moderate oven. Dumpling Scotch.—Make a of oatmeal and water, put in the middle of it a haddock’s liver, season it well with pepper and salt, and boil it in a cloth.( 223 ) EEL E C II DURCELLE.* — Take small mush- rooms,shalots,parsley and truffles, a quart of each, shred and wasli them well, and press them dry in a napkin ; then put tltetn in a stewpan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated ba- con, a pint of white wine, seasoned^ with salt, pepper, nutmeg and other spice, a bay-leaf, and a little garlic ; reduce the whole to a jelly, taking care to stir it fre- quently ; add to it four spoonsful of re- duced allemande, put it into a pan, and set it by for use. E. EAU D’ARGENT.*—Take the rinds of two oranges, the same of two lemons, two drachms of cinnamon, broken in pieces, and two quarts of brandy!; distil from this in the bain ^arie alembic a quart of liqueur. Dissolve two pounds and a q;iarter of sugar in three pints of river water, put the liqueur to it, strain, bottle, and finish it with silver leaf, as directed. See Eau d’ Or, Eau de la Cote.*—Take half a pound of the best cinnamon in powder, half a pound of dates, half a pound of the best Turkey figs, and the zesfes of four ce- drats, put all these into three gallons of brandy. Let them infuse for six days ; at the end of that period distil in a bain marie; from this you will extract six quarts of the liqueur. Dissolve nine pounds of fine sugar in six quarts of dis- tilled river water, add it to the liqueur., pass the whole through a jelly bag, and bottle it. EAvd’ Or.*—Take the rinds of two fine lemons, and half a drachm of mace, put to them two quarts ot brandy; distil this in a bain marie alembic, which will afford half the quantity of liqueur. Dissolve a pound and a half of sugar in a quart of distilled water, and halfa pound of orange- flower water; put this to the liqueur, colour it with a little tincture of saffron, strain and bottle it. Take a book of gold leaf, some of which put in a basin, pour a small quantity of the liqueur on it, beat it up with a fork, and put a little parcel of it into each bottle. ECHAUDE'S.*—Lay a quartern of flour on a paste board or slab, make a hole in the centre, in which put an ounce otf salt, and a little water to dissolve it, a pound of butter, taenty eggs; mix the two latter well together, then the flour ; work it thoroughly with your hands, if it be very firm add more eggs. When perfectly smooth, sprinkle a cloth with flour, lay the paste in it, and set it in a oool place for ten or twelve hours. The next day heat about three quarts of water, and having cut your paste into small pieces, about ati inch square, ana having floured each, put them into hot but not boiling water, shake the kettle the instant after you have thrown them in, and as they rise, if they are firm to the touch, they are sufficiently done, and must be taken out of the saucepan, and thrown into cold water; let them remain two or three hours; then drain, and leave them again for three hours or more, and then bake them for about twenty minutes. EELS Baked. — Skin and clean some eels; take a shallow pan, and cut the eels in lengths according to the depth of the pan ; put them in, letting them stand upright in it; the pan should be filled; put in a little water, some salt, pepper, sbalots cut small, some sweet herbs, and a little parsley cut small; set them in the oven to bake; when they are done, take the liquor that comes from them, put it into a saucepan, and thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little white wine. Eels Boiled. — The smallest are the best for boiling; they should be. boiled in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which must be served up with them and the liquor. Serve with chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel d la Brooke*—Skin, and cut a large eel into pieces, stick them with small pieces of anchovies, and soak them a quarter of an hour in vinegar, with salt, pepper, and small onions ; after that time rub the pieces with butter, wrap them in paper, and roast them. Lay as many pieces of buttered toast as you may re- quire on a dish, and on each a slice of broiled ham, a piece of eel on that, and serve with any sauce you may think pro- per. Eels Skin and cleanse your eels, rub them with the yolk of an egg, strew bread-crumbs over them, chopped parsley, sage, pepper and salt. Baste them well with butter, and put them in a dripping pan. Roast or broil them, and serve them up with parsley and butter. Eels Broiled d I’llalienne.—If for an entree, choose two moderate sized cels, take off the skin, wash, bone, and dry them thoroughly; toss them in an egg beaten up with pepper and salt, then fry them of a good bi'own colour. Serve with a good Italian sauce under them. Eel Broth.—Boil some small eels in a small quantity of water, with some pars- ley, an onion, and some pepper-corns, salt according to taste ; let them boil for two hours. EELen Canape.—Cut an eel into piecesEEL EEL 224 about two or three inches long, and take out the back-bone for use ; make a farce with some of the meat cot into small dice, with mushrooms and carp rocs (if any) a little butter, chopped parsley, shalots. pepper and salt. Make likewise, a fine farce with some of the meat and bread- crumbs soaked in cream, parsley, mush- rooms chopped fine, pepper and salt, mixed with the yolks of two or three eggs ; cut pieces of crumb of bread to the same length as the pieces of bone, and about two inches vvide; laysome of the last farce upon each piece, then the back- iMjne and some of the forced-meat upon it: then some of the fine farce again, laid smoothly over with a knife dipped in eggs ; strew it with crumbs and small bits of butter ; bake it in a moderate oven or under a brazing-pan cover, and serve with any sauce you may like best. Eels to Choose.—The 'J'hames silver eel is generally esteemed the best, and tlje worst are brought by the Dutch and sold at Billingsgate; there is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than in any other fish. They should be dressed as fresh as possible, and are in season all the year, excepting during the very hot summer months. Eels Co//are</.*—Take an eel, and cut it open ; take out the bones ; cut off the head and tail; lay the eel flat, and shred sage as fine as possible ; mix with black pepper pounded, nutmeg grated, and salt; lay it all over the eel; roll it up liard in a cloth; tie it up tight at each end ; then set over the fire some water, with pepper and salt, five or six cloves, three or four blades of mace, a bay-leaf or two; boil these with the bones, head, and tail, well; then put in the eel, and boil it till it is tender; then take it out, and boil the liq^uor, and when it is cold, put it to the eel; do not take off the cloth till you use them. Eels, Entrie of. — Take some ^ood fuzed eels, bone them, and cut them into pieces about a finger in length ; pass them over a slow fire, in a small quantity trf sweet herbs, shalots, pepper, salt, butter, and lemon-juice. Vvhen they are three parts done, put all on a dish; dip each piece in the liquor; bread crumb, and boil them over a clear fire. Serve with anchovy sauce. Eels, Entree of. — Take two large eels, bone, and lay them fiat; put some light forcemeat, well seasoned, upon each; roll them up sepaiately; bind them round with tape ; put them into a stewpan, with a gill of Madeir.a, one clove, garlic, half a bay-leaf, four peeled ebalots, a little thyme, and a pint of veal- broth. Let them stew till done, then strain the liquor; skim it free from fat; season to the palate ; thicken with flour and water; reduce it to half a pint: put the eels into a deep dish, glaze the tops, and serve them up with the sauce under, and pieces of fried bread round the dish. Forcemeat of.— Take two fine eels, boil them till they are nearly done enough, then put them into cold water; broil a perch ; when it is nearly done, lay it to cool j take the meat from the bones of both hsl), and mince it, and add to them the liver of a cod, minced also; then season them with pepper and salt; add sweet herbs, picked from the stalks, some small onions, minced, some scraped bacon, a little veal suet, a few bread crumbs, and a piece of butter ; put the whole into a mortar, and beat it to a paste; it is used for fish-pies, and adds a fine relish to all made-dishes of fish. It may also be rolled up into balls, and fried or stewed. Eel, d la Four. • — Having skinned and cleaned an eel, cut olf the head; fasten the two ends together with a skewer, so as to form a hoop, and lay it in a baking dish; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, with carrots and onions, sliced, parsley', bay-leal, and thyme ; do these up together, and then add white wine, pepper and salt; when they have boiled about half an hour, strain it through a fine sieve; take the eel, and put it in the oven; in three quarters of an hour take it out. and place it in your dish. Serve with Sauce Itatienne. Eels Fricasseed. —Skin three or four large eels, and notch them from end to end. Cut each of them into four or five pieces, and lay them for half an hour to crimp in spring water; dry them in a cloth, and put them in a pan, with a piece of fresh butter, a green onion or two, and a little chopped parsley. Set the pan on the fire, and shake them about for a few minutes; then put in aliout a pint of white wine, and the same quantity of stock, with pepper, salt, and a blade of mace. Stesv all together, about half an hour ; then add the yolks of four or five eggs, beat smooth, a little grated nutmi'g, and some chopped parsley. Stir the whole well together, and let it simmer for a few minutes; then squeeze in the juice of a lemon ; give the whole a good shake; pour it into the dish, and serve it very hot. Garnish your dish mth lemon. Eels as Chicken Fricassee.—Skin one or two eels, according to their .<ize ; cut them into pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, some mush- rooms, a fagot of sweet herbs, and two cloves ; let the whole simmer some time,EEL 225 ) EEL then aild half a pint of white wine, sonie broth, pepper, and salt; boil on a brisk fire; reduce the sauce; take out the bundle of sweet herbs, and make a liaison with the yolks of two or three eggs, and cream ; and add the squeeze of a lemon when ready to serve. Eei.s Fried.—Cut one or two eels into pieces, take out the back hone, and score It on both sides. Marinate it for about half an hour in vinegar, with parsley, sliced onions, shalots, and four cloves. Then drain it; baste it with eggs and crumbs of bread, and fry it of a nice brown colour. Garnish with fried par- sley, and serve it with a good relishing sauce. Eels Fried.—If your eels are small, they should be curled round, and dipped into egg, and then nicely fried. If of a good size, cut them into pieces ; season tJiem with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; flour them ; fry them in butter. Eel, Galantine of.*—Take the skin, with great care, from a large eel; bone, and having laid it open, spread over it with a knife a quenelle farce of pike, on which place some truffles of tongue d. I’ecarlate, and gherkins, all cut in small pieces; lay a little more farce_ on them, and then roll it into its original form, and sew it up ; wrap round it some slices of bacon, and then lay it in a napkin; fasten the two ends, and sew up the napkin, so that the fish may still retain its right form; then put it into a fish- kettle with a cooked marinade, and when it has simmered in them between thirty and forty minutes, let it stand to cool in its liquor: then drain, and cut the eel into eight pieces, seven of an equal length, and the eighth much longer than the pest. Put a layer of Montpellier but- ter into a dish; set the longest piece of eel in the middle, and the others round, and garnish the dish with pieces of jelly, and borders of coloured butter. Eels, to kill, instantly.—Pierce the spinal marrow, close to the back part of the skull, with a sharp pointed skewer. It tliis is done in the right place, all mo- tion will instantly cease. Eel, Larded.*—Lard an eel along the back with small pieces of bacon; roll, and tie it up ; put it into a pan, with a cooked marinade; when it has laid some time in that, cover it with breadcrumbs, and bake it. Eels en Matelote. — Skin and wash some eels; cut them into three or four {lieces; lay them between bards of fat lacon and consomme, enough to cover them; to which, add a little carrot, onions, parsley, pepper-corns, salt, bay- leaf, and one clove of garlic; let them stew till well done, and let them stand in their liquor till nearly cold; then take them out, trim them, lay them on the dish; to which add a few rolls of very good veal forcemeat, blanched, and pour over the whole a good bechamelle sauce, and a liaison, gently mixed in. Eel, Gi-os Pate o/.*—Take three fine large eels, open them, take out the bones, spread them out on the table, season, and lay over them, to the thick- ness of half an inch, a farce made in the same way as that for Gros Pate of stur- geon, with the addition of a pound of truffles, cut in dice, and the same quan- tity of tunny, also cut into dice; draw the skins ever this, so as togivethem^ their original form. Prepare your pate in the usual manner, and lined with the farce; take one of the eels, roll it round, not very close, and lay it in the pafc; fill the centre of the eel with a little of the farce, and some whole truffles; cover the surface with spices and salt; and then, in the same manner, lay on it the second, and on that the third eel. Cover the whole with a pound of good fresh butter and some slices of bacon ; finish the pate as usual, (See Gros Pate of Carp Roes), and bake it four hours : when done, pour in some melted butter and sweet herbs. Eels Take some eels, skin them, slit them down the belly, take out the bones, rub them all over with salt; let them lie three days, and turn them every day; then take them out of the brine, wash them in water, and wipe them dry with a cloth ; season them with nutmeg, cloves, mace, and a bay-leaf: roll them in a collar, and tie them tight in a cloth ; boil them in an equal quan- tity of white wine and vinegar: when they are tender, take them out of the liquor, and set them to cool: when they are cold, put them into the same liquor again: if there_ is not liquor enough, boil some more vinegar, white wine, and spices : set them upon their ends while they are cooling, ana they will keep their shape much better. Eel Pie_.—Skin and clean the eels ; cut them in pieces about two inches in length; pass them, with chopped parsley and shalots, a little gr.ated nutmeg, pep- per, salt, and lemon juice, for five mi- nutes ; then put a little light forcemeat at the bottom of u deep dish, put the eels over it; cover it with pulT paste; bake It, and put into it either bicliamelle or cullis. Eels Potted.—Rip open the eels, bone and cut them into pieces; wash, and well dry them; season them highly with pep- per, salt, and nutmeg; put them into aEEL EEL ( 226 )■ pot; lay on pieces of butter; bake them ; pour off all the gravy, pressing them hard, tliat none may remain ; pour on clarified butter. Ebls a la Poulette.*—Cut your eels (when skinned), into small pieces, and put tliein into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, two bay-leaves, parsley, scal- lipns, green onions, and a bottle of wliite wine. Set them on the fire till suffi- ciently done; then trim, and put the pieces into another saucepan. Then toss up about twenty small onions, add to them a little butter, flour, and the liquor ia which the eels were done, and which must be strained, mushrooms, parsley, and scullions. When done, take out the anions, put them over th.e eels; skitn, and reduce your sauce, and then, if too tiiin, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs: keep it on the fire, being careful that it does not boil; strain it over your eels, and when ready to serve it, lay some fried bread in a dish, your eels on it, then the onions, &c. and garnish the wliole with cray-fish. Eels, to preserve.—According to the number of your eels, boil a pint of wine, or more, with the proportion of a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a quarter of a pound of salt, for a bottle of wine; let it cool, and then trim theeelaas for present use; fry them in oil, and a few bay- leaves to three parts: when it is nearly cold, put it in an earthen pot, pour the wine upon it, and the oil is used for fry’ing with the bay-leaves; when it is quite cold, cover the pot with leather or strong paper, and tie it fast. It will keep in a cool place for a great length of time. Eel, Roasted.—Cut a large eel into pieces, having skinned and trimmed it, and marinate it about two hours with oil and lemon-juice, pepper and salt, two cloves, two or three whole shalots, tliyme, and laurel ; then tie each bit to a skewer, wrap it up in paper, well buttered ; squeeze the herbs of the ma- rinate, and haste it with the liquor, adding to it a little melted butter: serve with whatever sauce you please. Eel, Roulade of.*—Your eels being ropeily skinned, take oil'the meat from ead to tail, if possible, without break- ing; season them with salt and pepper. Make a farce with carp and ancliovies; lay this along the eel, and roll them up, beginning with the tail; tie them up. When all are done, put them into a ready-dressed marinade, and stew them for half an hour; then drain, and dish them. Serve with mushroom sauce. Eel Sauce.—cm the eels into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan. with a few slices of bacon, ham, veal, two] onions, with all sorts of roots, soak it till it catches a little, then add a glass of white wine, and good brotli, a little cujlis, three or four tarragon leaves, chibbol, a clove of garlic, two of spices, and a bay-leaf. Simmer for an nour; skim it very well, and sift it in a sieve for use. Eel Sazisages.—Prepare the meat the same as in the receiptfor Eels en Canape, with this difl'erence, that it must he put into a different form; cut same hits of veal cowl into whatever length and breadth you please, put the pieces of back bone in the farce, and put it into the pieces of cowl, roll them up, and tie them in the form of sausages ; broil them slowly in a well-buttered paper, and when they are of a nice brown colour, wipe off the fat with a clean cloth, and serve with what sauce you please. Eel Sofef/.*—Cut your eels, when skinned, into pieces eight itiches long, and cook them in a ready-dressed ma- rinade ; when done, lay them on a dish, cover them with marinade, and let them stand till cold; then having beaten and seasoned four eggs, dip the pieces (cold) into it, take care that all parts are well covered; roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them. Drain, and lay them on a dish, snd serve with sauce piguante. Eels Spitohcocked.— Skin and cleanse your eel, slit open the belly, lay it flat, but do not bone it; cut it into pieces about the length of a finger, rub it well with the yolk of an egg; strew over it fine bread crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, ciiopped parsley; rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, auU broil it of a nice broivn colour. Serve with anchovy sauce. Or you may do it whole, done with the above ingredients, turned round and skewered, then broiled, or roasted in a Dutch oven. Eel Spitchcocked.— Let your eel be large, split it down the back, and joint the bone, but leave on the skin, cut it into three or four pieces, broil them on a gentle fire, baste them with butter, vinegar, and salt; when ihey arc broiled, serve them with butter andjuice of lemon. Eel Soup.—To every pound of eels put one quart of water, a crust of bread, two or three blades of mace, a little whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover them close, and let them boil till half the liquor is wasted, and the fish is quite broken; then strain it oil and toast some bread, cut it into dice, lay it in a dish, and pour the soup upon it. A quarter of a pint of ricli cream, with a teaspoonful ot flour, robbed smooth in it, very greatly improves it.EGG Eei,s Slewed. — Cut your cels into pieces, pepper and salt tliem, put them into a small stewpan, with some good stock, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, a bit of lemon-peel, a glass of Ma- deiia, stew these gently; when the eels are done enough, which will be in half an liour, or perhaps rather longer, take them out. and the onion, and the lemon-peel; mix some flour with a little cream, boil this ia the sauce ; add more wine if there is not sufficient, and cayenne ; squeeze in some lemon-juice, piit in the eels. Eeis Slewed d I’Espaffnole.—Stew the eels the same as en matelote, and dish them the same, but pour over them a good sauce d I’Espagnole; it will be bet- ter for having either truffles or mush- rooms in it. Eel d la Tarlare.*—Skin and cut the eels into pieces, five or six inches long; make a sauce as directed for eel ate four ; but before adding the white wine and seasoning, put some flour; when this is strained on the eel, do them up together a short time; let them cool, and then roll each piece in bread-crumbs, dip them in e«gs well beaten and seasoned ; bread them a second time, and a quarter of an hour before serving, broil them over a slow fire. Pour a sauce d la Tarlare into a dish, and place the eels on it. Eels d la Tartare.*—Toss up some carrots and onions shred, and some sweet herbs bruised in a little butter; add a pinch of flour, white wine, nutmeg, pep- per, and salt; let it boil for half an hour, then put it into an eel, skinned and cut in pieces; when this is sufficiently done, take them from the fire, and let them awl; when quite cold, roll each'piece in bread-crumbs, and dip them in beaten egg; bread them a second time, and broil them over a gentle fire. Eggs.—There are so many different ways of dressing eggs, that the recipes would almost fill a volume; we have, therefore, given such as we esteem the best, and, the most adapted to the Eng- lish taste. Eggs d I’Allemande.*—Roll a little butler in flour, and put it into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, powdered ginger, and pjirsley; atld equal quantities of consomme and Rhenish wine ; let the whole boil for a quarter of an hour, then pour it over some peached eggs, and set it over hot asiies for a short time. Eggs vdlh anchovies.— Take two or tliree French rolls, cut them into slices, (not too thin), and toastand butter them; over them cross shreds of anchovies, put them on a dish, and before you serve them, lay a poached egg on each toast. Eugs and Anchovies in savoury Jelly.— EGG Take ten good anchovies, clean them, and cut them into shreds, and lay them on a plate; poach five eggs in vinegar and water, and as you poach them pot them in cold water; then take a plain mould, and into the bottom of the mould put a little savoury jelly, and as soon as it is set, take the anchovies and neatly cross them on the jelly, trim your eggs very nicely, and with care lay them on the anchovies, then gently pour in a little jelly nearly cold ; when the eggs and an- chovies are well set, fill up the mould, and keep it in ice till it is wanted, then turn it out like any other jelly. Egg/oj' Balls.—Boil six eggs, take the yolks, pound them, and add a little flour and salt, and the yolks of two raw eggs. Mix all well together, and roll into balls. They must be boiled before added to any made dish or soup. Eggs Beaten.* — Take fifteen eggs leaving the whites of five, strain them into a saucepan, and add to them a quar- ter of a pound of butter, (which should be cut in small pieces) a spoonful ofvetoute, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Set these on the fire, and stir them with a stick till they are done, then place them on your dish, and lay fried bread round them. To this dish may be added the heads of asparagus, young pease, cucumbers,&c. these must be placed round the eggs. Ham, cut into dice, is also dressed with them in this manner. Eggs (Beaten) in the Shell.—Cut as many pieces of bread as you have eggs ; take offthe crusts, and shape them round; make a hole in the middle of each, big enough to contain an egg laid lengthwise in it. Then take your eggs, break one end carefully, and take out the contents, which put into a stewpan, with a small piece of butter, two spoonsful of cream, shred parsley and scallions, salt and pepper. Keep it stirring over the fire until properly dene; then, having washed and drained the shells, fill them with the cooked eggs; lay them on the bread, and serve. _ Eggs dressed with Beet. — Pound a piece of red beet with some beaten cinna- mon, sugar, macaroons, and a slice of lemon ; then take half a dozen eggs, leave out the whites, a little salt and milk^ mix the wliole well together, and strain them through a sieve ; put it into adish, set it overthe fire, and brown tvith a red hot shovel. Egg to boil for a Salad.—Boil two eggs for twelve minutes, and then put them into a basin of cold water for a few minutes, the yolks must he quite hard and cold, otherwise they will notproperly incorporate with the other ingredients.228 EGG EGG Rub tliem through a sieve with a wooden spoon, and mix them witii a tahlespoon- ful of water, or fine double cream, then add two table spoonsful of oil or melted butter; when these are well mixed to- gether, by degrees add a tetispoonful of salt or powdered lump sugar, and a tea- spoonful of made mustard ; v/ben these are smoothly united, add very gradually three teaspoonsful of vinegar, rub it with the other ingredients till thoroughly in- corporated with them ; cut up the white of the egg, and garnish the top of the salad with it. Let the sauce remain at the bottom of the bowl, and do not stir up the salad till it is to be eaten. Eggs au BouUion.*—Put the yolks of four and two whole eggs into a saucepan, with five ladiesful of consomme, let them stand till well mixed, and then strain them; butter your moulds lightly, fill them with the preparation, and leave them to set. Serve with good consomme reduced. You may prepare this dish with any other sauce you please. Egos d la Btmrgeoise.*—Spread some butter over the bottom of a dish, cover it entirely with thin slices of crumb of bread, on that lay thin slices of Gruyere Cheese, then eight or ten eggs, season them with salt, pepper and nutmeg, set the dish over a stove to cook gently till done. Eggs aiul Bread.*—Put half a handful of bread crumbs into a saucepan, with a small quantity of cream, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and let it stand till the bread has imbibed all the cream; then break ten eggs into it, and having beaten them up together, fry it like an omelet. Eggs Broiled.*—Make a small paper- case, in which put a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, a little parsley and scal- lion, set the case on a gridii-on, and when the butter begins to melt, break an egg into it, add salt, pepper, and bread- crumbs ; do this over a gentle clear fire, and pass a salamander over it to colour it on the top. Eggs Bultered. — Take yolks and whites, set ihem over the fire with a bit of butter, a little pepper and salt, stir them a minute or two, when they grow tliickish, and a little turned in small lumps, pour them on a buttered toast. Eggs Buttered.—Beat together the yolks and whites of four or five eggs, put a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin,and then put that in boiling water, keep stirring it till it is melted ; then put the melted butter and the eggs into a saucepan ; keep a basin in your hand, hold the saucepan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it ueginsto warm, pour it into abasin and back, then again hold it over the fire, keeping it consUntly stirring in the saucepan, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread, or in a basin, to eat with salt fish or red herrings. Eggs au Caramel.*—'Lake the yolks of a dozen hard eggs, bruise them in a sauce- pan, with some powder sugar, three al- mond biscuits, and half a glass of cream; make these into a paste, of which form little eggs, dip them in caramel sugar, and brown them. Eggs in Caul.—Cut bits of caul large enough to wrap a poached egg within it, with a little ready prepared farce of any kind, minced meat, stewed greens, or onions fried in butter, roll them up, dip them in yolks of eggs, and bake in ihe oven about a quarter of an hour in a baking dish: serve with any sauce you please. Eggs and Cream.*—Boil half a pint of cream till reduced to half the quantity; then add eight eggs, season them with salt and pepper, boil them together, till the eggs are partly hard; pass a salaman- der over the top, and serve. Eggs a la Creme.*—Put into a saure- pan a little butter, a spoonful of flour, some shred parsley and scallions, salt, pepper and nutmeg, mix them together, add a glass of cream; when it lias boiled up once, pour it upon a dozen hard eggs cut in slices, heat all up together, and serve. Eggs Croquettesqf.*—Cut the yolks and whites of a dozen and half of bard boiled eggs into dice, and put them into a sauce- pan, and pour on them a cream sauce, with the addition of a little shred parsley and scallions, stir them well together over the fire, and then set it to cool; when cold pour a large teaspoonful on a plate, form it like other croquettes, roll them in bread-ciumbs, dip them inbeaien eggs, bread them a second time, and fiy them in a hot pan; drain, aud serve them. Eggs d la Duchcssc.*—Bo\\ a pint and a half of cream with some sugar, orange- flower, candied lemen-peel. marchpane, and burnt almonds, all chopped small or bruised; whip up the whites of eight eggs well, and then take two or three spoonsful of them at a tinie, and peach them in the cream ; drain, and lay ih^m on a dish, so as to resemble egg.s poached without the yolks. When all the whites are thus used, put the cream on the fire, and reduce it. and as the dish is sent to t.able, add the yolks to the cream, and pour the sauce gently over the eggs. ; EoGsd / Ean.*—I’utapint of water,EGG EGG 229 ) 1 a little sugar, orange-flower water, and green lemon-peel; let these boil for a quarter of an liour, and then set them to coot. Break seven eggs into another saucepan, and mix them with the water and other ingredients, and strain them into the table dish ; set the dish into the iain marie until the water is evaporated, and the eggs are rather firm. Eggs en Filai^raiione,*—Take a pint of white wine, half a pound of fine powder sugar, and make itintoaclear syrup with the white of an egg ; beat up well eight eggs, and pour them through a cullen- der into the syrup ; a very short time is suffioient to cook them. Serve either hot or cold. Eggs Fricasseed.—Boil your eggs pretty hard, slice them, then take a little veal gravy, a little cream and flour, and a bit of hotter, nutmeg, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and a few pickled mushrooms. Boil this up, and pour it over the eggs. Put a hard yolk in the middle of the dish, with toasted sippets. Eggs Fricasseed with Onions and Mush- rooms.—Boil yonr eggs hard, take the yolks out whole, cut the whites in slips, and some onion and mushrooms, fry the onion and mushrooms; throw in the wiiites, turn tl)em about a little; if any fat, pour it ofl'; flour the onion, &c.; add to it a little good gravy, boil this up, add pepper and salt, and the yolks. EGo/'Vff<ers.*—Pounda dozen hard boil- ed eggs with a little cream, and a quarter of a pound of beef marrow; then pound half a dozen macaroons, some bitter al- monds, a little sugar, and lemon-peel ; mix. these with the pounded eggs, and form them into fritters, dip them into a batter made with flour, butter, salt, and lemon-peel; fry them in very hot lard, sprinkle sugar over, and serve. Eggs Fried.*—M.ake three thin ome- lets, with three eggs in each, and season- ed with parsley, scallions, salt and pep- per; as you do them, lay them out, and roll them uptight, cut each in half, dip every piece into beaten egg, then into bread crumbs ; fry them, and serve with fried parsley. Eggs Fried in Balls.—Take a deep fryingpan, and three pints of clarified butter, heat it as hot as for fritters, stir it with a Slick till it runs round very uickly ; then break an egg into the mid- le, and turn it round with the stick till it is of the consistence of a poached egg; the wriirlingof the butter will make it round like a ball; then take it up with a slice, and put it into a warm pipkin, or dish; set it leaning before the fire to keep hot; they will keep half an hour, and yet be soft,so you can make as many as you please; you may serve them with fried or roasted col lops. Egos Frothed.—Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four (set aside the remaining whites) with a spoon- ful of water, some salt, sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; fry this, and then put it on a dish ; whip the four whites (which were set aside) to a froth with sugar, and £ lace it over the fried eggs; bake it in a »utchoven,or with a high cover fitted for the purpose. Eggs and Gho-hins.*—Take some pickled gherkins, and having washed them in several waters, mince them very small, toss them up in a little butter, and then simmer them in a gravy or good stock. Pound the yolks of some hard boiled eggs with cream, salt and (pepper, mix them with the gherkins, and set the whole on the fire, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Eggs (.small) au Gras.* — Take two dozen eggs, and boil them till they are firm, but not hard ; take the yolks and pound them to a paste, with a little flour and some fowl gravy ; dip your hands in flour, take a piece of the paste and roll it in the shape of an egg, but no bigger than a filbert; when all your preparation is used, have ready some boiling water, in which is a little lemon-juice and salt, throw in the balls for a minute or two to harden, and use ham to garnish your dishes. Eggs au Gralin.—Mix together some bread-crumbs, butter a chopped anchovy, parsley, scallions, and shnlot, all shred small, and the yolks of three eggs; put this on a dish that will bear the fire, set it over a gentleone till ihegra/in adheres to it, then break eight eggs on it, season them with salt and pepper, keep it over the fire till sufficiently done; pass a salamander over, and serve. Eggs, Gratin of, with Cheese.^—Take some grated bread, Parmesan cheese, also grated, a small piece of butter, the yolks of two eggs, nutmeg and pepper ; mix these together, and spread them over the bottom of a dish, set it over a gentle lire to make a gratin, on which break ten eggs; sprinkle Parmesan cheese over the surface, finish cooking it, and brown it with the salamander. _ Egos with Gravy. —Poach some eggs in water, with a little vinegar in it; cut the whites round neatly ; lay the eggs in a dish ; pour into the disli some clear relishing gravy. Eggs nashed.-Bai] eggs hard, slice them. Iry an onion,sliced, in butter ; put in the eggs, a little good gravy, chopped pars- ley, pepper and salt. Serve them iiot. Egos d V Impcriale.—Take some breastEGG EGG ( 230 ) of fowl and partridges,parsley, and bread soaked in cream, and pound tliese toge- ther, season them with salt and pepper, add the yolks of four eggs; spread this mixture over the bottom of a dish, and break eight eggs on it; cover them w'th bread-crumbs, set the dish over hot ashes, and salamander the top. Eggs (l la Jardiniere.*—C\it four or five large onions into pieces, and put tliern with some butter into a stewpan, set them on the fire, and when the onions are done, add a pinch of flour, a pint of milk, salt and pepper, boil this till thick, then take it from the fire, and put in ten eggs, heat them all up toge- ther, pour it into a dish for table, and finish (he cooking over a stove. Pass a salamander over the top to colour it. Eggs and Lettuce. — Scald some cab- bage lettuce, and squeeze them well; then slice them, and toss them up with butter; season them with salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; then set them over a gentle fire in a saucepan, with butter, and let them stew for half an hour; then skitn off'the fat, and add to them a fish cullis ; then lay them in dishes. Poach some eggs in butter, lay the eggs upon the lettuce, and serve them on plates. Eggs with Fat Livers.*—Fry a dozen pieces of bread, (each large enough to liold a poached egg) in lard, and lay them on a dish. JVlake a farce with fatlivers, sweet herbs, salt and nutmeg, put some of this on the bread, and place on each a poached egg, cover the whole with the farce bread, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve it over veal or fowl gravy. Egg Marmalade.*—Clarify a pound of sugar, keeping it rather thick; n hen cool, add to it the yolks of twenty eggs, which should be perfectly free from the whites, and well stirred, but not beaten ; set tliese on the fire, stirring continually until it boils, and then continue to stir until sufficiently thick; if any scum should arise, it need not he taken off', as the boiling and stirring will ellectually remove it. Orange-flower water may be added, if approved. Egg Mince Pies.—Boil six eggs until they are hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet ; then add one pound of currnnis picked and washed, (if the eggs were large you must use more currants) the |iecl of one lemon .shred vei-y line, and the juice, six spoons- ful of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very small quantity of salt, orange, lemon,and citron candied. Makeahght paste for them. Enos « la Mode. — ff’uke a handful of bread crumbs, and simmer them in g. od fat broth, and when it is quite thick, and no liquid remains, take it off" the fire; chop a good slice of bacon, previously boiled, to mix with it, and add a spoonful «f d la mode leef sauce, not seasoned too highly, the yolks of eighteen eggs beaten up, andjthe whites of six; alittle pounded coriander, pepper and salt, if the sauce does not give it taste enough; mix all together very well; garnish a deep stew- pan all round with slices of bacon, put the preparation into it, and bake it in the oven ; when done, turn it over gently, take off' the bacon, wipe the fat with a cloth, pour a brown glaze over, and let it cool before using. Eggs d la Mode de Portugal.—Take two large lemons, strain the juice through a sieve into an earthen pipkin ; add to this, a tea-spoonful of basket- salt, and two ounces of very fine sugar; set it over the fire, and w'hen it boils, break into it four eggs; stir them with a silver spoon, till they will not slick to the saucepan, which is a sign that , they ai e done enough ; pour them into a soup plate, and shake over them a little very fine sugar; heat a salamander red- hot, and hold it over them, which will give them a nice gloss. Eggs u la rVef^'e.*—Break ten eggs, and having separated the yolks and whiles, whip the latter as for biscuits; then add two spoonsful of powder-sugar, and a little dried orange-flower in powder. Pour a quart of milk, six ounces of pow- der-sugar, and a li:tle orange-flower, into a saucepan, and when it boils put into it, a dessert-spoonful at a time, of the white of egg; poach the latter, and then set them on a sieve to drain. Then beat up the yolks, and mix them with half the milk, put it on the fire, and stir it with a wooden-spoon till it begins to thicken ; then take itoff, lay the poached eggs in a dish, and cover them with the yolks anil milk. Eggs in Paste, fried.—Make choice of the smallest eggs, poach them ; when trimmed and cold, carelully dry them in a cloth ; then prep.are a paste, the same as for rissoles, into which lay the eggs, cut them the same shape, fry them in the same manner, and serve them very hot, on a n.-.pkin. Kaaaiid Ham Patties.—From the most solid part of a stale quartern l<>.af, cut a slice of bread two inches in thickness: have in readiness a tin round cutter of two inches in diameter, cut out four or live pieces, then take .a cutter, twosize.a smaller, press it nearly thn'Ugh the l.arger piecrs; then with a koifc rcinovc the bread from the circle ; have ready a large stewpan full of boihng lardJ Iry I them of a light brown colour, dram [231 ) EGG EGG ! V « i ie them dry, with a clean cloth, and put them aside till wanted ; then take half a pound of lean ham, mince it small; add to it a gill of good brown sauce; stir it over the fire for a few miniites, and add a small finantitv of Cayenne pepper and lemon-juice; fill the shapes with the mixture, and lay a poached egg upon each. Egos d la Pauvre Femme *—Put a lit- tle butter into a dish, that will bear the fire, and heat it; break over it ten or twelve eggs, and set the dish on hot ashes; in the meanwhile cut some crumb of bread into dice, and throw into butter; give them a boil, drain, and strew them over tl'.e eggs, mss a salamander over, and serve with Espaenole, reduced. Eggs, Pickled.—Boil the eggs very hard; peel them, and put them into cold water, shifting them till they are cold. Make a pickle of white wine vine- gar, a blade of mace, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little whole pepper; take the eggs out of the water, and put them immediately into the pickle, which should be hot; stir them a good while, that they may all look alike; untie the herbs and spread them over the top of the pot, but cover them with nothing else till they are turned brown. They will be fit to eat in nine or ten days. Egg Pie.—Having boiled twelve eggs hard, shred them with one pound of beef-suet, or marrow shred fine ; season them with a little cinnamon and nut- meg finely beaten, one pound of cur- rants, clean washed and picked, two or three, spoonsful of cream, and a little sack and rose-water, mixed all together ; then fill the pie, and when it is baked, stir in half a pound of fresh butter, and the juice of a lemon. Egg Pie.—Boil a dozen eggs hard, mince the yolks very small with their weight in beef-suet; put to them some salt, beaten spice, lemon-peel, rose- water, sugar, a quarter of a pound of dates, stoned and sliced, add a pound of currants; you may also add an apple shred small; mix all these together, till your dish arid bake it. Serve it to table with a little wine. Eggs d la Piemo7i(aise.*—Put a couple of anchovies and a little gravy into a saucepan, and when they are dissolved, add the yolks of eight and the whites of two eggs (well beaten), season them with salt, pepper, and n'ttmeg; beat them well whilst they are doing. Serve them with fried bread, grate Parmesan cheese over, and brown it with a sala- mander. Egos, Poached.—Have ready a sauce- pan ol boiling water, break in your eggs carefully, and let them boil for three or four minutes ; then take them out with a slice, and serve them, either upon toast, spinach, or whatever yon please. Eggs {Poached) with Aspic.*—Warm some aspic, and pour part of it into a mould; when congealed again, have ready some eggs poached, and garnished with truffles ; lay them on the jelly, and fill the mould with the remaining aspic, and finish it in the usual way. Eggs, Poached with Gmy.v.*—Fill a saucepan about three parts full of water, to which add a little salt and vinegar; as soon as it boils, set it by the side of the fire, and carefully break four eggs into it; be careful not to injure the yolks. When done, take them out with an egg- spoon, and if they should chance to be rather hard, throw them into cold water, drain them on a cloth, pepper them a little, and serve them with gravy. Twelve or fifteen eggs are sufficient for a dish; the water should be kept boiling whilst they are doing. Eggs {Poached) Potage o/.*—Having oached as many eggs as you wish to ave, trim and place them in a soup- tureen, and pour on them some good stock or broth. Ten minutes before you serve it, add a small quantity of coarse pepper. Eggs d la Proventfale.*—Put a glass of oil inlo a frying-pan over a gentle fire, and when quite hot, pour into it an egg, with salt and pepper; when the white begins to bubble, press it down with a spoon, turn it, that both sides may be equally done ; then take it out and set it on a hair sieve to drain ; do twelve eggs in this manner, dish them with fried bread glazed between each. Reduce some sauce espagnole., in which put the juice of half a lemon, and pour it over them. Eggs, Puffed or Raised.—Carefully separate the whites and yolks of eight eggs without breaking the yolks ; froth up the whites ; cover one of the yolks carefully, with a spoonful of the froth, and so continue, till all the yolks ate covered ; then slide them gently oH'inlo a hot Jriture, one after another. Serve with a cullis satice, made tolerably relish- ing or sharp with lemon-juice. Egg Punch.* — Take a punch-glass, and put into it a wine-glass of syrup of Itunch (see that article), and the yolk of an egg; beat them together with a spoon, and then fill tip the glass with boiling water, stirring a little as you pour ititi. Eggs, « Sabni o/.—Boil six bruised shalols in a glass of white wine for about idEGG ( 232 ) EGG cd roasted livers of hares, rabbits, or any other kind of game, to give it the taste ; add the yolks of six eggs, beaten up with a little gravy, and a spoonful or two of well seaaonecl cnllis; strain it, and bake it au bain-tnurie. Egg Su7i(iimc/ies.* — Boil some eggs hard, leave them to get quite cold; then cut them, shortwise, into slices of n mo- derate thickness, and put them between slices of roll cut thin, and buttered ; according to taste, you may season them with pepper and salt. Egg Sauce.—Boil three eggs hard, cut them in small squares, and mix them in good butter sauce, make it very hot, and squeeze in some lemon-juice before you serve it. Eggs with Sausages.—Fry some sau- sages, and after them a slice of bread ; lay the sausage on it, with a poached egg between each link ; if the toast is too strong fried, butter it a little. Eggs, Scotch.—Take five pullets eggs, and boil them hard, and without remov- ing the whites, cover completely with a fine relishing forcemeat, in which let scraped ham, or chopped anchovy, bear a due proportion. Fry them of a fine yellow brown, and serve with a good gravy in the dish. Eggs in Slices.*—Take the yolks of a dozen hard boiled eggs, and put them on a dish with salt, pepper, and basil in powder ; cut the whites, and five or six onions, into slices, put thern into a sauce- pan with half a glass of boiling oil; when about two-thirds done, add a glass of gravy and half n glass of white wine; simmer this for half an hour, and pour it into your dish over the yolks, and lay the sliced whiles on the top. Eggs ivith Stdnach.—Scald a handful of spinacti in boiling water, and drain it fit to be pounded in a mortar; when well pounded, pour in a pint of cream to make the cream of a fine pea-green; add a little salt, Ihe yolks of six or eight eggs, preserved, macaroni-drops, and rasped lemon-peel; sU ain and press it, then pour it into a dish ; keep it some time over a moder.ate fire to catch a lit- tle at the bottom without burning. Glaze it with sugar-powder, and colour it with a hot shovel. Egos, Stuffed.*—Take ten or a dozen hard eggs, and cut each in half, length- wise; takeout all the yolks, pound and rub them through agucneUc sieve ; soak some crumb of bread in milk, and when quite solt, press out all the milk, pound and pass that also through a quenelle sieve ; do the same with some good iresh butter; then take equal quantities of each, ini.x them together well in the mortar, with the addition of parsley and scallions, shred fine; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and bind the/arce with the yolks of raw eggs; when quite done, put a layer, about an inch thick, on a dish, then put some in each half egg, and cement them together with wtiite of egg, place them in proper order on the farce, and set the disli on hot ashes, and cover it with hot ashes also to colour it. Eggs en Surprise.*—Take a dozen eggs, and make a small hole at each end ol every egg, through which pass a straw and break the yolk ; then blow out the yolk carefully. Wa.-ih tlie shells, and having drained, dry them in the open air ; mix the yolk of an egg witli a little flour to close one of the holes of the shells, and when dry, fill half the number by means of a small funnel, with chocolate cream, and the remaining six with cof- fee or orange-cream; close the other end of your eggs, and put them into a saucepan of hot water ; set them on the fire, taking care they do not boil; when done, remove the cement from the ends; dry, and serve them on a folded napkin. Eggs en Surtout.*—Put some parsley, scallions, shalots, and mushrooms, il shred small, into a stewpan with a bit of butter, and a pinch of flour; having given them a few turns over the fire, add a pint of milk, salt and pepper, let these boil till thick,and then put in seven hard eggs, each cut in four, and give them one boil before you dish them ; cover the eggs entirely with the sauce; butter the top, strew bread-crumbs over, butter it again, and colour it with a salamander. Egg Tart.—Chop up some sweet herbs, and mix them with a good bit of butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; put it into the bottom of some paste, with some good butter, what quantity of Lard eggs you choose cut into quartets, and some raw ones beat up as for an omelet; finish the pie as usual; you may add caper sauce when ready, or a cream sauce. Egg Toast.* — Put a glass of thick cream, some sugar, two or tluee maca- roons pounded, with a few almonds, a little grated lemon, give them a boil; then add the yolks of eight and whites of three eggs, beat the whole up over a slow fiie; and lay on very thin slices of fried bread; I sprinkle sugar over, and serve. j Eggs d la Tripe.*—Cut a dozen hard eggs into slices, and put them into a | saucepan, take the same nurnber of onions, slice them also, .and do them up with some butter in another saucepan; then add a spoonful of flour, two g.asses of cream, salt, and pepper; simmer them, and when pretty thick, pour it on theELD ( 2; ■fi eggs, then do them all up together, and 11 serve them very liot. 1 _ Eggs d la Tripe au Roux.*—Take a ) I little buiter, and a spoonful of flour, ilJ colour it over the fire, and add a handful 11| of small onions cut into dice, a little more butter, and a small quantity of stock : set them on the fire; when tlie onions are 03 sufficiently done, put in some hard boiled y- eggs sliced, boil the whole up once, put Sin a few drops of vinegar, salt and pep- per, and serve them. V Amlher way. * — Put some sliced onions, and a little butter into a saiice- II pan, set it over a gentle fire for a short Ji time; then add some maigre cullis, or I roi/a’, made as above: a glass of white I wine, a little water, salt and pepper. V When this is tolerably thick, take a well li dried omelet, cut it in pieces, and put it c to the onions; make it quite hot, taking R care that it does not boil, and when ready 11 for table, put mustard to it, and serve. Eggs with Verjuice.—Well beat up )i some eggs with a little verjuice, then put 1, to them salt and nutmeg; put them over f the fire with a little butter, and when t, they are about as thick as cream, serve I them. Eggs, fVhites of {to make a dish of).— Take the whites of twelve eggs, beat li them up with four spoonsful of rose- water, some lemon-peel grated, and a little nutmeg ; sweeten them with sugar, mix them well, and boil them in four bladders; tie them in the shape of an egg, and boil them hard ; they will take half an hour ; lay them in a dish ; when cold, mix half a pint of thick cream, a gill of mountain, and the juice of half an orange all together; sweeten it with fine sugar, and serve it over the eggs. Egg (Vine.—Beat up an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. Wlien it boils, pour a little of it to the egg by de- gree.s, till the whole is in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, set i t over a gentle lire, stir it one way for a minute, not longer; for if it boil, or the egg is stale, it will curdle; serve with toast. You may make, it as above, without warming the egg, and it will be lighter on the stomach, though not so agreeable to the palate. ELD Ell Flower Fritters.—They are made whilst the elder flowers are in bloom; and they should marinate three or four hours in brandy, sugar, orange- flower water, and lemon-peel ; when drained, dip tliem in a good thick batter to fry, and serve with rasped sugar, as in general. 13 ) ELD EtnEti Buds Pickled.—elder buds ■ should be gathered when they are about tlie size of hop-buds; put them into a •strong brine of salt and water for nine days; and stir them two or three times a day. Put them into a pan, cover them with vine leaves, and pour over them the water they came out of. Set them over a slow fire till they become quite green, and ihen make a pickle for them of alle- gar (made of sour ale), a little mace, a few shalots, and some ginger sliced; boil this two or three minutes, and pour it upon the buds; then tie them dowji, and keep them in a very dry place. Eldeu Shoots Pickled.—Gsxhe.r the elder shoots when of the thickness of a tobacco-pipe, and put them into salt and water all niglit; then put them in layers into stone jars, and between every layer strew a little mustard seed, scraped horse-radish, a few shalots, a little white beet root, and a cauliflower pulled into small pieces ; pour boiling allegar (made of sour ale), upon it, and scald it three times; keep it in a dry place, with a leather tied over it. Elder Vinegar. — Put dried elder flowers into stone or double glass bottles, fill them up with good wine vinegar, and set them in the sun, or by the fire, till their virtue is extracted. Elder Vinegar.*—Choose the elder- flowers when just blown, take away all the stalks, and when the flowers are about half dry, put them into a jar, and fill the jar with vinegar, close it tight, and let it stand in the sun for twenty days ; then draw it oft', press the flowers, and having filtered the whole, bottle it; take care to keep the bottles closely corked. Elder Vinegar. —The elder-flowers should be gathered belore they are too much blown ; pick them clean Irom the great stalks, and dry them in the sun, when it is not too hot; put a handful of them to a quart of the best rvliite wine vinegar, and let it stand twelve or four- teen days ; then strain it, and draw it oft’, and put it into the vessel, but keep back a quart, and make it very hot; put it into the vessel to make it ferment; then stop It close for use, and draw it oft'when it is wanted. Elder [Vine *—Pour a gallon of boil- ing water OH every gallon of elder-berries, let It stand twelve hours; then draw it on, and boil it up with three pounds and a half ol sugar ; rvhen boiling, beat up sonie whites of eggs .and clarify it: skim it clear, then add lialf an ounce of pound- ed ginger, to every gallon of the wine; boil it a little longer, belore you put it in the tub; when cool, put in a toast rubbed X 3END E M P (234 ) in yeast; let it ferment a day or two, after w|i*ch, put it into a barrel, previ- ously rinceu with brandy. All wines should be milkwarm when the yeast is added to it. Ei.der —To three pounds of elderberries, put one pound of danisons, and to a nine-gallon cask put a pint of sloes. Boil two gallons of water with an ounce of hops, for an hour and a half; then put in sugar, in the proportion of four pounds to five quarts of water; keep skimming as it rises, and then set it to cool; boil the fruit for half an hour, strain the juice, and put a quart of it to every gallon of water; then let it work witti yeast three days; put it into the barrel, and stop it close. The quantity of spice to be regulated by the taste; as may the sugar also. When the wine has stood four or six weeks, add to the above four pounds of stoned raisins. Elder Floiver Wine.—Put ten pounds of loaf supr to four gallons of water, boil it till a sixth part is wasted away ; while it is boiling, skim it well; then set it by till it is as cool as wort, then put in a spoonful or two of yeast, and as soon as it begins to work, put in about a pint and a half of blossoms of elder, picked from the stalks, stir it daily until it has done working, which will be in about a week; then put it up in a cask, stop it close, let it stand two or three months, and if it is clear, bottle it off. ELIXIR de Garrus.* — Take two ounces and a h.ilf of aloes, half an ounce of myrrh, two drachms of safl’ron, of cin- namon, cloves and nutmeg, twenty-four grains each; bruise all these articles, put them into a matrass, and pour over them a quart of highly rectified spirits of wine, in which has been previously mixed three ounces of filtered river water ; close the matrass hermetically, and let it stand in the sun or on hot ashes for twenty-four hours, shaking it frequently. The above substances being thoroughly dissolved, put them into a glass alembic, and distil them by means of a sand batli ; from the above quantities you will obtain a quart of aromatic spirit, to which add ait equal weight of syrup of capillaire, and asuificient portion of orange-flower water, to give an agreeable perfume: then let it stand a fortnight in a well closed vessel; at the end of that time draw it oHj and bottle it; seal the corks carefully. EM POT AGE. * —Put tnto a large saucepan, three or four pounds of beef- steaks, a knuckle of veal, and four old hens; moisten this quantity of me.at with two ladiesful of broth; set it on a stove, and let it boil till properly reduced, taking care that none of the meat burns, which would make the empofage of too higli a colour; fill up your saucepan with broth, adding carrots, turnips, and onions; let all these ingredients stand over the fire for three hours and a half; then strain the wliole through a silk sieve, that it may be perfectly clear. ENDIVE au Jus.*—Blanch and drain some endive, split them in half, season each with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; ihe.n lie the lialves together, and put them into a stewpan, on some slices of bacon, cover them in tlie same way, put in also veal, mutton, of beef sliced, two onions, two cloves, two carrots, and a bunch of sweet herbs, moisten the whole with the skimmingsof cmsomme ; stew the endive thus, for three hour.®, then drain and press them in a cloth; trim and dish them up for table. Endive, Potage of.*—Cut four or five heads of endive into very small pieces, and do them up in a small quantity of butter, do not let them brown; moisten it with water, and let it boil for three quarters of an hour, season the potage with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, and pour it, as usual, on bread, and serve it. Endive, Puree of.*—Blanch and cut your endive into small pieces, and do them up in a little butter, with pepper, a ladleful of velmtie, a little cream, and only just sufficient sugar to take oil'the sharpness ; stir it till pretty thick, then strain, and set it by for use. Endive in a P//ree.—Pick and well wash in several waters a dozen heads of endive; then having a large stewpan of water boiling on the fire, put in the en- dive, with a handful of salt; skim it well, and let it boil till done; then let it drain for two or three minutes on a hair sieve, and with a wooden spoon, rub it through the same sieve into a dish ; put it into a corner of the sieve again, for an hour or longer, to drain the water from it, then stir it on tlie fire in a stewpan, with a piece of butter; as scon as it is melted, add three or four table-spoonsful of good consonuHv, and continue stirring it on the fire, till it boils to its former thick- ness ; when so, mix in three spoon.^ful of bichamelle sauce; boil it for a mi- nute ; take it off the fire, ^d stir m the yolk of one egg, with a little crearn, and salt, with a very' little sugar, if I'Indive, Blanch and Iwil some endive in stock, then add to it a little veal blond, an onion stuck withEND ( 235 ) ESP cloves, and the juice of a lemon. Serve it very hot. Endive, RagotU of-—Take three or four heads of the whitest endive; put them in salt and water for iwo or three hours; cut otr the green heads from a hundred of asparagus, and chop the rest email, as far as they are tender ; lay them also in salt and water; take three or four heads of celery, washed and scraped clean, and cut in pieces two or three inches long; put them into a saucepan, with three or four blades of mace, and some whole pepper tied in a rag, with a pint of water; stew it till it is quite tender, then put in the asparagus, shake the saucepan, and let it simmer till the asparagus is done; take the endive out of the water, drain it well; leave one head whole, and pull the others leaf from leaf; put them into a stewpan with a pint of white wine; cover the pan very close, and let it boil till it is sufficiently done, then put in a quarter of a pound of but- ter, rolled in flour; cover it closely, but shake the pan ; then take up the endive; a put the whole head in the centre of a dish ; arrange the celery and asparagus round it with a spoon, and the leaves of t the endive over that, and keep it hot; K pour the liquor into the stewpan, stir it I all together; have ready the yolks of a i couple of eggs, beat up with some cream ; t put in a little salt, some grated nutmeg ; mix this ivell with the sauce; keep it stirring one way till it is thick ; pour it over the endive, and send it to table. Endive Soup.—This is a clear soup, made in the same manner as lettuce ro soup. Be careful to wash the endive ■w well, and pick out the bitter parts. Endive Stewed.—Take a dozen heads V of the very best endive: pick ott' what 0 you think bitter; wash it well, and blanch it whole in plenty of water, with , a good handful of salt; when done, lay •ifl them on a sieve to drain, and tie eacli 1-4 separate with packthread, and lay them between lards of fat bacon, and stew them :ii gently in good strong consomme; take )\( them out ol the consomme, and lay them Id in a line upon a clean cloth; take off the packthread, and roll the endive tight up in the cloth for a minute or two, then r'H open the cloth, and cut the endive in jij pieces, about six indies in length; lay •ij them on a dish; have ready a sauce d 4' VEspagnnle, with a bit of butter mixed IS in it, and a squeeze of lemon ; when this u(| sauce is very hot, pour it over the en- ■li dive, and serve it to table. 11 Endive au I'eloute.*—Take off'all the 1*1 outer leaves of your endive, and havinr opened the hearts, put them into cold M water to wash them. In the mean while heat a kettle of water, put in it a handful of salt, then throw in the endive; keep it constantly under the water, to prevent their turning black. As soon as the endive is tender, drain, and then put it into cold water, and when quite cold, drain it again ; press the water out with your hands; then chop it small, and put it into a saucepan, with some butter, salt, and pepper, stir it w'ell, and then add five spoonsful of velouti, the same of consomme; reduce it till pretty thick, and then put it in a dish, with fried bread round it. Endive may also be dressed with cream, in which case, put two spoonsful of flour into it, and moisten it with cream. Entree.* — There is no word pre- cisely equivalent to this in English. Any dish of butcher’s meat, fowl, game, or fish, dressed for the first course, is called an entree. ENTREMET.* — There is no word equivalent to this in English. All dishes of vegetables, jellies, pastries, salad, prawns, lobsters, and, in general, every thing that appears in the second course, except the roast, is called an entremet. ESPAGNOLE. — Take an old fowl, and about fourteen pounds of leg_ or shoulder of veal; chop the latter into pieces, and put it, with very little water, into a large saucepan, with two carrots, three onions, a pound of ham, a few peppercorns, a small quantity of spice, and a clove of garlic; let this stew over a moderate fire, shaking it frequently, till it becomes of a brown colour, when you may add to it a sufficient quantity of hot water, to come about four inches above the meat. Set it by the side of the stove to boil gently, skimming when necessary, till the meat comes Irom the bones; then strain it through a siik sieve, and set it by for use. Espagnolb ( Grande). * — Take two noix of veal, a pheasant, or four par- tridges, half a noixol ham, four or five large carrots, five onions (one of them stuck with five cloves); put all these into a saucepan, and pour over them a bottle of Madeira wine, and a ladlefiil of jelly: set it over a large fiie, to re- duce it, then place it on a slow fire, until sliglitly coloured ; take it ofl, and let it stand about ten minutes. Prepare some sous-noix as directed for Grande Sauce, *“>_d add (the liqiior to i\\Q. Espagnole; fkim it well, ana put in some roux, two or three bny-leaves. a little thyme, mush- rooms, parsley, scallions, ai.ii slialots. As soon as the sauce boils, set the saucepan by the side of a stove, to let it do more gently, fortwoor three hours. Be very careful that your saucepan be JFAR FAR 2.36 perfectly clean before you use it, otherwise the Espagnole will be thick and muddy. Espagnole Travuill6e.* — 'lake five Jndlesful of Espagnole, tliree olconsomine, and a handtul ol mushrooms; if the sauce be not sufficiently coloured, you may add some veal blond', boil these over a brisk fire ; skim and take off all the fat. When it is well reduced, strain it, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. This sauce should be of the consistence^ of clear broth. Half a bottle ol white wine may be added to this. ESSENCE.*—Take half a bottle of white wine, half a glass of the best vine- gar, the juice of two lemons, three ounces of salt, half an ounce of whole pepper, a little nutmeg and mace, four cloves, four bay-leave.s, thyme, parsley, one small clove of garlic, ten shalots, pounded, and an ounce of dry mush- rooms ; put all these ingredients into an earthen pan, over a brisk fire; when near boiling, lessen the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for six or seven hours ; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and afterwards filter it. Keep it in closely corked bottles: a small quantity is sufficient to flavour a dish. F FANCHONETTES.* —Put into a saucepan, two ounces of flour, three of sugar, one of butter, two of pounded al- monds, some green lemon-peel, two yolks, and one whole egg, a little salt, and half a pint of milk; put these in- gredients on the fire, and let them set like a cream; line some tartlet-tins, or moulds, with puff paste, fill them with the preparation ; place the moulds on a tin, and bake t\ie. fanchonettes in a brisk oven; when about three parts done, take tliem out, put frothed eggs on, sprinkle sug.ar over, and replace them in the oven to finish the baking. FARCE, d la Or fine.—Make use of the panada and udder (see Panada for farces), but no herbs are required in the panada, instead of whict), put a little cream. Take the white flesh of a fowl that has been roasted ; take oft'the skin and sinews, chop the meat very fine; then poutid it as you do for other/aiwi'. Put in the yolks of four eggs, alter the farce has heen pounded and well sea- soned. Beat the whites of the eggs, and mix them gently with the rest, stir- ring the whole with a wooden-spoon. Use tliis farce when requisite ; it is ge- nerally used for Fowl a la Creme; if you have iti the larder a cold roast fowl, you may make that entree with it; empty the fowl, by cutting a square hole in the breast, the white flesh you makethe/arce with, and then replace it in the cavity, and proceed as directed in the receipt for Fowl d la Creme. Fauce, Cuile.*—Cut some undressed breast of fowl into dice, and put them into a stewpan with a small piece of but- ter, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg; do them up over the fire for ten minutes, then take out the meat, drain, and let it cool; put a piece of bread into the same stewpan, with some broth and a little shred parsley ; stir it with a wooden spoon, and beat it up over the fire till the bread is of the consistence of panada, and the broth reduced, when it must be set to cool; then pound the fowl well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve ; do the same with the bread, and alter that a ready-dressed calf’s udder, keeping all separate ; then take equal portions of these three ingredients, and pound them together for three quarters of an hour ; at the end of that time, add the yolks of five or six eggs, according to the quantity of your farce, still pound- ing until the whole be well mixed toge- ther ; then take it from the mortar and set it aside in a pan for use. Faiice d Gratin of Partridges, Rab- bits, and Fowls.—The Farce a Gratin is made in the same manner as the Farce d la Creme, with the only difl'erence, that you must not beat the whites of the eggs, and that thi.s farce is to be kept delicate and soft. Use the flesh of roast- ed chickens, or young rabbits, or young partridges. This farce is intended for the stuffing of such articles as are not to be put on the fire again ; such as calf’s ears, calf’s feet, larks an gratin, &c. Farce, Omelet of.*—Take any meat, game, or fowl/arce you please ; pour on it a dozen eggs well beaten, and Iry your omelet, taking care to keep it of an equal thickness all over. Farce d Quenelles.*—Put the crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with two table-spoonsful offowl consomme, one of veloute, a tea-spoonful of parsley, and two of mushrooms (both shred fine); set it on a moderate fire till it boils; stir it constantly, and when it forms a smooth, softish paste, add the yolks of two egp; then put it on a plate, and cover it with a piece of buttered paper. Take the fillets from two fat chickens, and having removed the skin, pound and rub them through a sieve; proceed in the same way with tworc.idy-dressed calf’s udders and the panada or bread, \yhen you liave proceeded so far, weigh six ounces of panada, ten of the chicken, and eight of the udder, pound the two former to- gether for a quarter of an hour; tu^d add the panada, and having pounded( 237 ) FIG FEN fifteen or twenty minutes loriger, put five drachms of spiced salt, grated nut- meg, and the yolksof two eggs,at first, and I in five minutes, two more yolks, atable- I' spoonful of oelyuie, pounding continu- ally, at least five minutes after all the ingredients are put in. Take a small piece ofthis/aiw, and form it intoa ball or quenelle, and throw it into some broth; when it has boiled a minute, take it out, and if it be tolerably firm and smooth, it is properly done; but if too firm, add more veloute; if not suffi- ciently so, the yolk of another egg. FAUN.—Faun should be dressed al- most as soon as it is killed. W hen very young they should be trussed, stufl'ed, and spitted in the same manner as a hare. But they are better eating, when of the size of house-lamb, and are then roasted in quarters; the hind ' quarter is considered the best. They must he done by a very quick fire, and ‘ either basted all the time they are roast- I ing, or be covered with slices of fat [ bacon ; when done, baste it with butter, • and dredge it with a little salt and flour, till you get a nice froth upon it. FAUfJONNE.*—This soup is cora- ; posed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions. > celery, lettuce, sorrel, and chervil, all i cut in dice, except the lettuce and sor- rel, which must be bruised ; do up the roots in a little butter; then put in the lettuce, herbs, and chervil, moisten them with broth, and let it boil over a I gentle fire for an hour or more, if neces- ; sary; then soak your bread in the usual way, and pour the faubonne over it. Faun, Saddle of.—Well lard it, and put it into a very large vessel with salt, pepper, and onions cut into slices, par- sley, vinegar, spices, &c.; leave it to pickle for two or three days, taking great care to turn it frequently on every side; then roast it, and serve with a , poivrade under it. Mind tliat the fillets and both legs must be larded. FENNEL {Pickled). — Take some I spring water, and when it boils put in I the fennel tied in hunches, with some ! salt; do not let it boil, but when it is of • I a fine green, dry it on a cloth ; when it i i is cold, put it in a glass, with some nut- t, meg and mace, fill it with cold vinegar, 1 and put a hit of green fennel at the top; I cover it the same as all other pickles, with a bladder and leather. Fen.vel Sauce.—Boil a bunch of fen- i nel and parsley; chop it small, and stir 1 it into melted butter. I Fennel Sauce.— Slice four or five > I anions, and soak them in two spoonsful 31 of oil, two of cullis, and two of white I wine, with two cloves of garlick ; sim- mer it for an hour, skim off the fat, and sift the sauce in a sieve; then add chop- ped parsley and fennel, coarse pepper and salt; boil a moment before using it. Fennel Nskcc.—Pick green fennel, mint, and parsley, a little of each ; wash them clean, and boil them till tender, drain and press them, chop them tine, add melted butter, and serve up the sauce immediately, for if the herbs are mixed any length of time before it is served up to table they will be disco- loured. Parsley becomes equally dis- coloured from the same cause. If approved, there may be added the pulp of green gooseberries rubbed through a hair sieve, and a little sifted sugar. Fennel Sauce.* — Take as many branches of green fennel as you may re- quire ; pick and wash it in the same manner as parsley, chop it very small, scald, and then lay it on a sieve to cool. Put two spoonsful of veloute, and the same of butter sauce, into a saucepan ; make them quite hot, take care to stir it well, that they may be properly mixed; rub the fennel in a little butter, and then throw it into the sauce ; mix it in thoroughly, and season it with salt, pep- per, and nutmeg. Fennel {Cooling fVatei' of). — This is done simply, by steeping some fennel in hot water, till it has the taste of the herb sufliciently; add what sugar you think proper, and keep it in a cool place a good while before using; the same is done with any other kind of herb, and in general with all sorts of fruit used in confectionary; also with the syrups of liquid preserves, mixing some of the liquor with water and sugar, sufficient to make it palatable. You may either ice it or not, according as you think proper. FIELDFARES, Roasted. — AVhen they are picked and drawn, lard them with bacon, putapaper round them,and lay them at a distance from the fire; when they are nearly done, take off the paper, and let them finish, to be of a nice brown: then serve with gravy or melted buttei' for sauce. FIGS, to keep all the Year fit for f7*e.—-Put some figs in a large earthen jar, with a layer of their own leaves be- tween them ; then boil some water and honey, skimming it well (be careful not to make it too thick of the honey), and piour it warm over the figs ; then stop the .iar very close. When you take out the figs for use, soak them for two hours in warm water. _ Figs, Preserved.*—"Vvike. some half ripe figs, prick themncar the stalks,andF I L F I L 238 blanch them ; when half cold, throw them iiuo cold water, and then diain them. Boil some clarified sugar to put in the figs, and give them three or four boils with the pan covered close ; then take tliem from the fire, skim tliem well, and having poured the whole into a pan, set it in a stove for the night. The next day drain oft'the syrup (with- out removing the fruit), boil it up ten or a dozen times, and then pour it on tliera when no more than lukevvarm ; on the ensuing day, having drained ofl’ the Byrup, boil it to grand perle; then add the figs, cover the presei ving-pan close, boil them tip once, shim it well, and put it into pots, &c. (or use. FiGs(6Vee«) lo Preserve.—Slit some small green figs on the top, and put them into water for ten days, and pro- ceed thus:—Put as much salt into the water as will make it bear an egg; then let it settle, take oli' the scum, and put the clear brine to the figs; keep them in water for ten days, tlien put them into fresh water ; let them boil till you can easily pass a pin into them ; drain them and put them in to other fresh water, ehifting them everyday for four days; again drain them, put them into clarified sugar, warm them a little, and leave them to stand till the next day; warm them again, and when they are become green, give tliem a good boil; then boil some sugar to blow, put it to them, and give them another boil ; the next day, drain and dry them. Figs (Ripe) to Preserve.—Take the white figs when ripe, slit them in the tops, put them into clarified sugar, and give them a good boil; skim them, and leave them to stand till the next day; then boil some more sugar souffle, put it to the figs, and give them another boil; the next day drain and dry them. FILBERT Biscuits. — Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and put them in a mortar to break their shells ; pick all the shells from them clean, pound them in a mortar very fine, and mi;t whites of eggs with them; take care they do not oil; mix three pounds of powdered- sugar, with the nuts and whites of eggs, to a proper thickness; let your oven be of a moderate heat, then with the spad- dle and knife, drop small pieces, about half as big as a nutmeg; put two or three sheets of paper under them, let them bake of a fine brown, and all alike; nnd let them be cold before you take them oil'the paper. FiLBErtT Biscuits.* — Take half a pound of filberts, an ounce of bitter al- monds, the whites of six, and the yolks of tlu-ee eggs, an ounce of Hour, and lialf a pound of sugar ; blanch and pound the filberts and almonds, adding, occasion- ally, a little white of egg to prevent their oiling. Beat the whites to a snow, then the yolks, mix the latter with half the sugar: beat them well, and ;hav- ing mixed the other ingredients to- gether, put them into a sieve, and whilst you are beating, sift them into the whites; when all are thoroughly incorporated, pour the preparation into paper cases, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. A little grated lemon- peel, or any other aromatic ingredient added to the yolks, greatly improves these biscuits. Filbert, Blancmange.* — Blanch a pound of filberts, and lay half of them in cold water for two hours; put the other half pound into a pan over a mode- rate fire, stirring them constantly with a silver spoon, till they are of a cle.ar yel- low, when remove them from the fire, and let them cool; then pound them, adding occasionally a little water to pre- vent their oiling. IVhen well pounded, take them from the mortar, and pst them into a pan, with two glasses and a half of water; press the whole through a napkin to extract the milk; to which put an ounce of sugar; as soon as the latter is dissolved press it a second time through a napkin, and add to it half an ounce of isinglass. Proceed in a similar manner with the filberts which have been in the water, by which means you will have one part of your blancmange perfectly white, and the othera clear light yellow. Finish your blancmange in the usul way. Filberts (burnt) JVhite.—Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them ; put the kernels in a copper pan or sheet, and put them in the oven to roast; then have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it comes almost to caramel; put your filberts in, stir them till they are all covered with sugar, pick them in a sieve, break those which stick together, and then have another pan with syrup boiled the same as the first, and give the filberts a second coat of sugar. Filberts, Cannellons of.*—Burn and pound six ounces of filberts, moistening them with white of egg; when «ell pounded, add a qtiartcrol a pound of fine pounded sugar, and half the white of an egg; dry this paste a little, and then press it through a syringe, cutting the cannellons h\iouI four inches in length; make the friture qtiite hot. dip nellons in batter, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and glaze them with a salamander. Take pariicul.vr care to keep the cannellons perfectiv strait. Filberts (Conserve of.)—L pon half au n 'ly 1 b I F I L ( 239 ) F I L pound of sugar put an ounce of filberts cut into as small stuips as possible; the kernels being first scalded, as is done in blanched almonds, to get the skin ofi'; finish the same as dried conserves. Filbeht Cream FninQaise.* — Wash and drain a quarter of a pound of filberts ("blanched) and colour them very slightly: when cold, pound them, adding occa- sionally a spoonful of milk; put the paste into live glasses of boiling milk, cover it close, and let it stand till no more than lukewarm : and, having in the mean- time beat up the yolks of eight eggs, into which strain the infusion of filberts, add ten ounces of sugar, and a grain of salt; set the cream in the usual way, put six drachms of isinglass to it, and finish as directed. See Cream Fran- (?aise. This kind of cream is made in the same manner with almonds, in which case, six ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bit- ter almonds, are the proper quantities. Filbert Burnt, lee Cream. — Roast some Barcelona nuts well in the oven, and pound them a little with some cream; put four eggs into a stevvpan, with one pint of cream and two gills of syrup ; boil it till it becomes thick, pass it through a sieve, and freeze it; then mix the filberts with it before you put it into your moulds. Filbert {Burnt) Cream,Paiissiere.*— Wash, drain,and dry a rjuarterof apound of filberts, throw them into a preserving pan, in which is a quarter of a pound of sugar boiled to sot^U ; let them boil up about a dozen times, then stir them lightly with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to the filberts ; as soon as it begins to candy, pour the whole on the slab, carefully removing whatever sugar may stick to the pan or spatula; when the almonds are cold, add two ounces of powder sugar, and then crush them with a rolling pin, put them into the cream paiissiere, and make it according to the directions for that article. Filberts, Petits, Souffles of.*—Beat up half a pound of sifted sugar, with the white of an egg: grate into this three ounces of burnt filberts ; mix them to- gether, and, if necc.-sary, add the white of another egg. Finish the petitssouffles ns usual. Filbert Genoise.*—Pound six ounces of blanched filberts to a fine paste, then put two-thirds of them to the usual ingredients, instead of sweet almonds, and make the giinoises according to di- rections. When baked, cut them into • rescents, but do not dry them ; mix the remainder of your filberts, with a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and a little white of egg; cover the genoises with this, and then colour them. * „ * Filberts Glacees d la Boy (tie.*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of silted sugar, with the white of an egg, for ten minutes; roll in this glaze, two ounces of filberts, (previously blanched,and slightly burnt); tlien lay them on paper, in groups of two, three, or four together, according to your fancy: take care to clear away the glaze so that the filberts are merely covered with it. VVhen you have done as many as you require, set them in a gentle oven, till they are of a proper colour, then take them out; do not remove them from the paper before they are cold. Filbert Ice.*—Take a pound of fil- berts, shell and blanch them ; boil half a pound of sugar to souffle, then throw in the filberts, and let them boil up about a dozen times, then move them about with a spatula, that the sugar may adhere to them ; as soon as they begin to candy, take them out; and when cold, put them into a saucepan, witli the yolks of nine eggs, to which add a quart of double cream ; set this on the fire, like all other cream ices ; when done, strain it off; let it cool, and then ice it as usual. Filbert Macaroons.*—Take a pound of filberts, and put a quarter of them into a preserving-pan (immediately after you have taken them from the shells), over a moderate fire; stir them continually with a silver spoon, until they are co- loured, and the skin begins to peel off; then take them out ; ruli off the akin en- tirely, and when quite cold, pound them with a little white of egg : proceed in the same manner with the remaining three quarters ; and when all are thus pounded separately, put the whole together into the mortar, with a pound of sugar, and the whiles of two eggs, and beat them for ten minutes; after which, add two pounds more of sifted sugar, previously iieaten up with six whites of eggs ; stir all these together well for five or six minutes, when the preparation should be sufficiently firm, to prevent its spread- ing when laid; if, however, it be too firm, add to it more white of egg. When you have proceeded so far, wet the palms of your hands, and roll a spoonful of the preparation to the size and form of a nutmeg; when all done, dip your hands in water, and pass them gently over the mararnons, which will make their surface smooth and shining; put them into a nearly cold oven ; close it tight, and let them remain in it for tliree quarters of an hour. Lay the mnearoons at least an inch apart, and as round as po.'sible. Filbert Mirlilons.*— Teel a quartor iF I L ( 240 ) F I S of a pound of filberts, and put them into a preserving-pan, over a moderate fire, to colour them li(?htly; when quite cold, pound them with a little white of egg, to prevent their oiling; then mix thcHi with six ounces of powder sugar, four eggs, and a grain of salt: when well amalgamated, add two ounces of melted fresh butter, and fill your moulds, pre- pared as for other7uir(ilo?iii; cover them with very fine sugar, and bake them in a moderate oven. Filbert Nougats, with whipped Cream.*—Peel half a pound of filberts, and chop them, not very small, and put them into the oven to colour them : then boil a quarter of a pound of powder sugar to a clear reddish colour; mix the filberts with it, and pour into moulds, of what- ever form you may think proper; plain ones are, however, the best: then smooth and press the filberts within, so that they may take the form of the mould per- fectly; and when wanted for table, put in each a little whipped cream, flavoured to your fancy: serve them turned over, that the cream may not be visible. These quantities, with eight spoonsful of cream, mixed with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the aromatic ingre- dients, will make about twenty or twenty- four small nougats. Filberts, Petits Gateaux Rogaux.*— Peel and pound two ounces of filberts to a fine paste, and pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix it with six ounces of sifted sugar, and the white of an egg; thepetitsgateaux are made in the same manner aspetits gateaux royanx of al- monds ; put the above preparation on them, and finish them as directed. Filbert Pralhies (burnt) Red.—Take some Barcelona filbert nuts, and crack them, put the kernels into a copper pan or sheet, and put them in the oven to ro.ast, have a pan with syrup boiling, and let it boil till it cnmesalmost to caramel; put a little cochineal into a cup, when the sugar is boiled, add to it the cochineal and the filberts, and stir them with a large wooden spoon, till you find the su- gar has got hard round them ; put them in a sieve, and separate tliose which stick together; have another pan with syrup in, and noil it as before, and ns high ; put the same quantity of cochineal in, and mix them as before,as doing them a second time they will become a mucli finer colour; then put them into a box. Filbert Having peeled half a pound of filberts, put them into a pre- serving pan over a moderate fire, and stT them constantly with a spatula until they become equally coloured of alight yellow : then set them to cool. When cold, pound them with a little white of egg to a paste ; then mix them with half a pound of flour, the same of powder sugar, and the yolks of four or five eggs, and then finish the operation as directed for almond rolls. Dorez, and trace on tile surface an ear of wheat, or any thing else, with the point of a knife: take care to dry them well in the baking, that they may be crisp. Coarse powder sugar may also be strewed over, before they are put in the oven. Filbert, Small fVufers.* — Take a quarter of a pound of the preparation used for spoon-biscuit--, and spread it over a well-buttered baking plate, with a knife, taking care to keep.it of an equal thickness all over; peel a quarter of a poundlof filberts,’cut them into thin slips, and mix them ivith two ounces of pow- der sugar, and a very little white oi egg; strew this over the. above preparation, and bake it in a moderate oven ; finish in the usual manner. FIRMITY.— I’o a quart of ready- boiled wheat, put by degrees, two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly; and then add four ounces of currants, picked clean, and well washed ; stir them and boil them till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonsful of milk; add this to the wheat, stir them together while over the fire; then sw-eeten and serve in a deep dish, either cold or warm, according to taste. FISH (Observations on).—There is a general rule in choosing most kinds of fish ; if their gills are red, their eyes plump, and the whole fish stiff, they are good; if, on the contrary, the gills are pale, the eyes sunk, and the fish flabby, they are stale. The greatest care should be taken that the fish is properly cleansed before being dressed, but not washed beyond what is absolutely necessary for cleaning, as by perpetual watei ing, the flavour is diminished. When clean, if the fish is to be boiled, some salt, and a little vine- gar should be put into the water, to give it firmness. Care should be taken to boil the fish well, but not to let it break. Cod, whiting, and haddock are much better for being a little s.alted, and kept for a day. There is often a muddy smell and taste attached to fresh-water fi-h. which may be got rid of by soaking it, after it ha.s been thoroughly cleaned in strong .salt and water ; or, if the fish is not too large, scald it in the same; then dry, and dress it. Care should be t.aken that the fish is put into cold water, and allowed to do(241 ) F I S F I S very gently, otlierwife the outside will break before the inside is done. Crimp fish must be put into boiling water; and as soon as it boils up, a little cold water should be put in, to check the excessive heat, and simmer it for a few minutes. If the fish is not taken out of the water the instant it is done, it will become woollv; to ascertain when it is ready, the fish plate on which it is dressed may be drawn up, and if sufficiently done, it will leave the bone. To keep hot for serving, and to prevent it from losing its colour, the fish plate should be placed crossways over the fish-kettle, and a clean cloth put over the fish. Small fish may be either nicely fried plain, or done over with egg and bread crumbs, and then fried. Upon the dish on which the fish is to be served, should be placed a folded damask napkin, and upon this put the fish, with the liver and roe; then garnish the dish with horse- radish, parsley, and lemon. Fish is a ■dish which is almost more attended to than any other. To fry or broil fish properly, after it is well cleaned and washed, it should be wrapped in a nice soft cloth, and when perfectly dry, wetted with egg, and sprinkled all over with very fine bread crumbs; it will look still belter to be done over with egg and crumbs a second time. Then having on the tire a thick- bottomed frying-pan, with plenty of lard or dripping, boiling hot; put the fish into it, and let it fry tolerably quick till it io done, and of a nice brown yellow. I If it is done before it has obtained a nice brown colour, the pan should be drawn to the side of the fire, the fish carefully taken up, and placed either upon a sieve turned upwards, or on the under side of a dish, and placed before the fire to drain, and finish browning; if wanted particu- larly nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish. Fish fried in oil obtains a much finer colour than when fi done in lard or dri;iplng. Butter should i never he used, as it gives a bad colour. Xlarnish your dish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or with fried parsley. When fi-li is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and done on a very clean gridiron ; which, when hot. should he rubbed over with suet, to hinder the fc fish from slicking. It should be broiled yi over a VI ey clear fire, to prevent its tast- tl ing smoky, and great care must be taken h not to scorch it. f Fish, New Method of Dressing.*— ® Take any sort of fish you think proper, ’■It being very careful that it is quite fresh; S) clean it thoroughly, dry, and season it to your taste ; then put it (without any moisture), into a pan, which may be closely covered, with the exception of a small hole, to allow of evaporation. Put it into an oven as soon as the bread is drawn, and let it stand until the whole is so completely dissolved, that the bones are not perceptible. Wlien cold, this makes a very transparent, well-flavoured jelly. Fish (Aspic o/).—Put some warm sa- vory jelly, about an inch and a half deep, into a plain tin or copper mould ; then take fresh smelts turned round, boil them gently in strong salt and water till done, then lay them on a drainer. VV'hen the savory jelly in the mould is quite cold, put the smelts upon it, with the best side downwards; then put a little more jelly, just lukewarm, over the fish, and when that is cold, fill the mould with more of the same kind. When it is to be served to table, dip the mould in warm water, put the dish upon the jelly, and turn it over. Pieces of lobsters, fillets of soles, &c., maybe done in the same manner. Fish, Consomme of.*— Take carp, tench, perch, eels, pike, and other fresh- water fish of the same kind ; clean them well, and cut them into pieces, as near of a size as may be ; lay them in a stew- pan, on a layer of sliced onions and car- rots : as soon as they begin to sweat, put in a hit of butler, and leave them for a quarter of an hour; moisten them with fish broth, and let them boil gently for an hour; keep the pan closely covered ; this will afford a very Bourishing broth. Fish (Entree of, in a Mould).— Rub the inside of a mould with fresh butter; strew grated parmesan cheese over the bottom, about an inch thick, and put a layer of boiled macaroni, of the same thickness, and upon that, fish of whatever sort you please, boned, cut into pieces, and strewed with herbs, such as parsley, thyme, and shalnts, chopped very tine, and a little pounded spices and cayenne- pepper, then a layer of macaroni and parmesan cheese. Put it into a moderate oven ; let it bake one hour, llien care- fully turn it out of the mould into a dish, and serve it to table, with a little good cullis round it. Vi^vi Fritters,— Make a light force- meat with fish of any kind. Then put a small quantity into pieces of puff-paste, the size of a common puff; then fry them in boiling lard; drain them dry. Serve them to table with ti uflles, or lechamcllc sauce round them. Fish, Glaze of.*—Take some fish broth, to which adii an eel, cut in pieces, and the heads, tails, fms, and large bones,F I S F I S 242 of either sea or river fish : wash them perfectly clean, and chop them into small pieces. When they have been boiling in the broth for about an hour, strain off the liquor, and reduce it to a jelly, which is used to glaze all sorts of maigre dishes. Fish Gravy—Cut two or three little fish of any kind into small pieces; put them into a saucepan, with rather more water than will cover them, a bit of toasted bread, a blade of mace, some lemon-peel, whole pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let it simmer gently till it is rich and good ; brown a little bit of butter iw a stewpan, and when it is browned, strain the gravy into it, and let it boil for a few minutes. Fish Gravy.—Skin two or three eels, or some flounders; gut and wash them thoroughly ; cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan : cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread, toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a little horse-radish, about a tea- spoonful ; cover close, and let it simmer; add a bit of butter and some flour, and boil with the above. Fish Ch'avy. * — Put some slices of onion into a stewpan, and set them on the fire ; when they are completely dis- solved, add a piece of butler, and some small fish,or pieces of carp, tench, perch, or any other you find convenient. As soon as they begin to dissolve, and give out their moisture, put a glassful of root broth to them, and boil them for half an hour; then add a glass of white wine, and a little lemon-juice, and boil it another half hour, when it may be pressed through a sieve, with great force. Fish Catsup. * — Take rather more limn a pint of vinegar, three pints of red port, two table-spoonsful of pepper, pounded very fine, plenty of shalots and horse-radish, the peel of half a lemon, and two or three bay-leaves, and a pound of anchovies; let the whole boil together until the anchovies are dissolved, then strain, and when cold, put it into bottles. Two or three spoonsful are sufficient for a pound of butter. Fish Patties.—Take a carp, a tench, and an eel, boil them a little; half stew six oysters ; pick the flesh from the bones of the fish, and beat it together in a mortar, with the melts of the fish, some mace, and some white wine; mix them well together; make some rich puff- paste, line the tins with it, then put in the forcemeat, with one oyster, and a bit of butter; put on the top, and bake them. Fish, /•’afe Chaud of.*- -Cut a piece of salmon into scallops, heat six ounces of fresh butter, and put into it two spoons- ful of parsley, two of mushrooms, four of truffles, and a shalot blanched, all shred very small, alittle nutmeg and salt; soak the scallops in this, and place them one by one within the pate chaud (see that article), pour over them the ibutter that remains, two bay-leaves, and cover the whole with slices of bacon. Finish the imti according to rule, and bake it aa hour and a quarter in a brisk oven. When done, garnish it with carp roe^ cray-tish tails, oysters, mushrooms, arti- choke bottoms and truffles, and a good Espagnole or tomata sauce. Fish Pie.—Clean and cut fresh sal- mon, cod, turbot, soles, sturgeon or had- docks, into moderate sized pieces; then roll them into a mixture made of pars- ley, thyme, and shalots, chopped fine, some beaten spices, powder of mush- rooms or truffles, pepper and salt; put them into a deep dish with some light forcemeat round ; cover with puff’paste; egg and ornament the top with leaves of paste, bake it till the fish is perfectly done; and a quarter of an hour before it is sent to table, put in some good strong cullis, with a little Madeira added to it. Fish Pie.—Take any sort of fish you please, either eel, pike, salmon, tench, &c., and scale it. and cut it into pieces; then line a pie-dish with crust, and put the fish into it, with a bunch of sweet herbs, some salt, and bruised spice.«. and a layer of butter at the top; after this put on the top, and let it bake for an hour and a half. When done, take off'the fat, and put in a good vegetable ragout made in the following manner Stir a little flour with butter over the fire till it is of a fine cinnamon colour; moisten with half a pint of white wine, some soup-maigre, or warm water, and add mushrooms, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt, let the whole boil half an hour, and then add the soft roes of carp, parboiled; let them stew a quarter of tin hour, and then put the ragofitinto the pies. Any sort of vegetable ragoflt may be made use of, in- stead of the above in these pies, such as of truffles, mushrooms, morels, or heads of asparagus. Ykh Maigre Pie.—Bone and cut into pieces a carp ; make it into forcemeat with some of the roe, parsley, thyrne, shalots chopped verv tine, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, salt.a little i>ound- ed spice, luilf a pint of cream, jour egjrs. and the cruiuh of a French roll. .After- wards take pieces ofcel. salmon and skaie. pass them with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and a bit of butter. ” henF I S ( 243 ) F I S they are cold, put 8ome of the forcemeat at the bottom of a deep dish, and mix with the fish some stewed mushVooms, the veiy smallest onions, truffles and morels blanched, and the roe cut into pieces, and put them into the dish with more lorcemeat round the top ; then cover with puff paste, ornament with leaves of paste, egg it, and bake it. When it is to be served to table, cut a small hole in the centre of the top, and pour in some gooil cullis. Fish (Salt).—Sal ted fish requires soak- ing, according to the time it has been in salt; that which is hard and dry, re- quires two nights’ soaking, changing the water two or three times; the interme- diate time lay it on a stone floor; Barrel- ed Cod requires less soaking; and for the best Dogger Bank Split Fi^h, which has not been in salt more than a fortnight or three weeks, still less soaking will be necessary. Fish Sauce. — Take some mutton or veal gravy, and put to it a little of the liquor that drains from your fish. Put it into asancepan,with an onion,an anchovy, a spoonful of catsup, and a glass of white wine. Thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. If you cannot procuie cream, instead of white wine you must use red. Fish Sauce (to keep a year.)*—Take forty anchovies, chop them up, bones and all, put to them ten shalots cut small, a handful of scraped horse-radish, a quar- ter of an ounce of mace, a quartof white wine, a pint of water, one lemon cut in slices, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a pint of red wine, twelve cloves, twelve pepper-corns. Boil the whole together till it is reduced to a quart; then strain it, put it into a bottle, and cork it close ; keep it in a cool dry place. One tea- spoonful will hesufficientforhalfa pound of butter. Warm the sauce first, and then put the butter in to melt, with a little flour. Fish Sauce without Butter. — Let a quarter of a pint of vinegar, and half a pint of water, (the water must not be hard) simmer very gently, with an union, half a haniiful of horse-radish, four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea- spoonful of black pepper, these spices should be slightly bruised. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with a couple of anchovies, and set the whole to boil for a few minutes, with aspoouful of catsup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by de- grees with them, and when they are well mixed set the saucepan over a moderate fire, holding a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, to pre- vent the eggs from curdling. Do not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce d la Crasfer. — Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then add to it a pound of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of mace pounded, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, some savoury, thyme, basil, knotted marjorum, a little parsley and sliced horse-radish; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer the whole gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and put it into bottles for use ; the proper way to use it is by putting some of it into the butter while melting. Fish Sauce (Excellent).,—Put a pint of remarkably fine port wine into a tin saucepan, with a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut catsup, twelve ancho- vies with the liquor belonging to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, fouror five shalots, some cayenne pepper according to taste, three ounces of scrap^ horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonsful of made mustard; let the whole boil gently till the rawness is taken off; then put it into smalt bottles for use. They must be corked very close, and sealed at the ton. Fish Sauce {fFhite).—Simmer to the quantity required, an anchovy, a glass of white wine, a bit of horse-radish, two or three blades of mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and a quar- ter of a pint of water ; strain it, put in two spoonsful of cream, a large bit of but- ter mixed well with some flour; keep stirring it till it boils, add a little catsup, squeeze in a little lemon-juice when off the fire. More wine may be added if agreeable. Fish Soup.—Take pieces of difi’erent sorts of fish, such as salmon, skate, sole, &c.; sweat the#n till tender, with turnip, onion, celery, a clove of garlic, and a blade of mace ; then add some plain veal broth. Simmer the whole together for halfan hour; then strain, and skim it iree from fat; season with salt and cayenne pepper, clear it with white of nud colour with a little saffron. It may be served to table with celery or rice in it. Fish {Tureen of).—Take fresh water fish of any kind, or different sorts toge- ther. If they be drcsned cn gras, stew them with a few slices of liam and veal, a y 2 ’FLO ( 244 ) FLO little broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, one of garlic, thyme, a bay leaf, a few slices of bacon, pepper and salt; when done, drain them from the liquor, and put the fish in a tureen ; add a little cullis to their broth, skim it, sift it in a sieve, and serve upon the fish; you may add what sorts of ragofit you choose. If it is to he maigre,braze the fish as such, and serve with their sauce, or with pease or lentil cullis. Observe, that tench must be scalded before they are dressed ; but the scales must be left upon pike and perch until they are done, which will give the meat a better colour and a finer white. FLIP. — To make a quart of flip :— Put the ale on the fire to warm, and beat up three or four eggs, with four ounces of moist sugar, a tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg or ginger, and a quartern of good old rum or brandy. When the aleneaily boils put it into one pitcher, and the rum, eggs, &c. into another; turn it from one to another till it is as smooth as cream. FLOUNDERS, io Choose, — They should be thick and stiff, their eyes bright and full, and must be dressed as fresh as possible, as they very soon be- come flabby and bad. They are both a sea and river fish; they are in season from January to March, and Irom July to September. Flounders Boiled.—Put on astewpan with a sufficient quantity of water to co- ver the flounders which are to be dressed; put in some vinegar and horse-radish ; when the water boils put in the fish, hav- ing been first well cleaned, and their fins cut off; they must not boil too fast for fear they should break ; when they are sufficiently done, lay them on a fish plate, the tails in the middle. Serve them with parsley and butter. Flounders d la Donne Femme. ter a dish, and lay in it three or four flounders, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a glass of white wine or water, and grated bread over the wliole ; rover your dish, and set it on a stove for ten minutes; take it off and serve. Flounders Broiled.* — Cleanse and wash as many flounders as you may re- quire, dry and rub them over with oil, and sprinkle salt and pepper on them ; lay reeds across your gridiron, and place your fish on these; broil them over a slow fire, and serve them with an Kaii- enne maip-e, capers, or any oilier sauce you may think proper to use. Flounders Broiled.*—&(ee\y your fish in oil mixed with pepper, parsley, and young onions, all carefully taken out before the fish is served; whilst broiling baste with the marinade, that is, the oil and herbs, and serve with whatever sauce you think proper. Flounders Fricasseed. — Carefully clean the fish, and take off the black skin, but not the white; cut the fiesh from the bones into long slices, and dip them in yolk of egg; strew ll-em over with bread raspings, and fry them in cla- rified butter; when they are sufficiently done, lay them on a plate, and keep them hot. For sauce, take the bones of the fish, boil them iii water ; then put in an anchovy, some thyme, parsley, a little pepper, salt, cloves, and mace; let these simmer till the anchovy is dissolved; then take the butter . the fish was fried in, put it into a pan over the fire, shake some flour into it, and keep it stirring whilst the flour is shaking in ; then strain the liquor into it, and boil it till it be- comes thick; squeeze some lemon-juice into it; place the fish in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Flounders F/vetf.—Well rub them in- side and out with salt, then let them lie for two hours, to give them some firm- ness. Dip them into egg, cover them with crumbs, and fry them a nice brown. Flounder Pie. — 'I'hoiouguly cRan some flounders, dry them in a cloth, just boil them, cut off' the flesh clone to the bone, lay a good crust over the dish, and lay a little butter at the bottom ; then put in the fish; season with pepper and s.alt to your palate ; boil the bones in the water the fish was boiled in, with a liitle bit of horse-radish, a little parsley, a very small piece of lemon-peel, and a crust of bread ; boil it till there is just liquor enough for the pie, then strain it, and put it into the dish; put on the top, and let it bake. Flounders Stewed.—Takesome floun- ders and fry them of a nice brown ; then take them up, and add to the butter they were fried in, a sufficient quantity of water to make sauce lor the fish that are done; to a quart of water two anchovies and an onion cut in slices, a spoonful of catsup, and two spoonsful of red wine; let itsiminera quarter of an hour; then put it to the fish, and let them stew gently a quarter of an hour; then take them out, put them into a warm dish, and thicken the sauce, with butter and flour: give it a boil, and strain it off; pour it over the fish. FLOWERS in Sugar. — Clarify sugar to a caramel lieitihr* wiiicli may be knou n by (lipping in a fork, and if it tiiro'vs the sugar as fine as threads, pni in the fiowers. Have ready some ica-cups, with tlie insides rubbed with sweet oil; putY 3 FLU 1 ! I i ( I I ( 245 ) FOR into each cup four table spoonsful of the sujyar and flowers, and wlien cold turn them out of the cups, and serve them to table piled one upon another. FLUMMERY. — Steep three large handfuls of very smalt white oatmeal a day and night in cold water ; then pour it off'clear; then add as much more wa- ter, and let it' stand another day and a night Then strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it is of the consistence of hasty pudding, keeping it well stirred all the time it is boiling. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower water. Pour it into shal- low dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk or cream, and sugar. Flummeby Dutch.—Boil very gently for half an hour, two ounces of isinglass in three half pints of water ; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three lemons and the thin rind of one, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as will make it sufficiently sweet; and having beaten up the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour the whole into a basin ; stir it till it is half cold; then let it settle, and put it info a melon shape. Flummery FVemcA.—Beat an ounce of isinglass fine, put it into aquartof cream, and boil it gently for a quarter of an hour, keeping it stirring all the time. Then take it off, sweeten it with fine powder sugar, put in a spoonful of rose and another of orange-flower water, strain it through a sieve, and stir it till half cold. Put it into a mould or basin, and when cold, turn it into a dish, and garnish with currant jelly. Flummery {Oatmeal). — Boil four quarts of water; when it is rather wanner than milk from the cow, put to it two quarts of oatmeal just cracked; when it has stood till sour, pour off’ the water, wash the flour out well through a sieve, with three quarts of fresh water ; let this stand twenty-four hours, then pour the water clear off’, leaving the thick ; to one cup of which measure three of milk; set it over the fire, stirring it; when it begins to curdle put it through a sieve, set the liquor again on the fire ; repeat this, passing it through the sieve so long as it cuidies ; then boil it for twenty minutes; put it into cups first dipped in watei'. If the water stands upon the oatmeal fourteen or twenty days, according to the weather, so that it only turns sour, not mouldy, the better the flummery will be. Flummery {to make a Temple in).— Divide a quart of stiff flummery into three parts, colour one part pink with a little bruised cochineal, steeped in French brandy. Scrape an ounce of chocolate, dissolve it in a little strong coffee, and mix it with anolherpart of the flummery, which will make it a stone colour, and have the last part white; then wet the temple mould, and fit it in a pot to make it stand even. Fill the bottom of the temple with pink flummery for the steps, the tour points with white, and fill the rest up with the chocolate flummery, and let it stand till the next day; then loosen it very gently from the mould, and turn it out. Slick sprigs of flowers from the top of every point, which will strengthen it, and give it a neat appear- ance. Lay round it rock candy sweet- meats for garnish. Flummery, /P’e/c/i.—Put a little isin- glass to aquartof stiff hartshoin-jelly; add to it a pint of cream, a little brandy, and some lemon-juice and sugar; boil this till it is thick, then strain it; you may add, if you choose, three ounces of almonds, blanched and pounded; and about ten bitter ones. FOND US.*—Put some grated Parme- san cheese into a basin, with pepper and a little melted butter, and the yolks of eggs; stir them together; whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and add them, a little at a time, to the cheese, stirring lightly with a wooden spoon ; half fill as many paper cases as you can, and bake them, like biscuits, in a moderate oven. Serve them as quickly as possible after they are done. FORCEME.\T {Ingredients for).— Forcemeat should be made sufficiently consistent to cut with a knife, but not dry or heavy. No one flavour should predomin,ate greatly; according to what it is wanted for, a selection may be made from the following list, being careful to use the least of those articles which are the most pungent: Cold fowl, or veal, scraped ham, fat bacon, beef suet, crumbs of bread, pai - sley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg, yolks and whites of eggs, well beaten, to bind the mixture. The forcemeat may be m.ade with any of these articles without any striking fla- vour ; therefore any of tlie following dif- ferent ingredients may be made use of to vary the taste. Oysters, anchovies, tarragon, savory, penny-royal, knotted-marjoraiii, thyme, basil, yolks of hard eggs, Cayenne gar- lick, sbalots, chives, Jamaica pepper, in fine powder, or two or three cloves.FOR ( 246 ) FOR To force or stuff turkies, geese, ducks, &c., see under the heads of the different ways of dressing turkies, geese, &c. FoncEMEAT.—Take an equal quantity of lean veal scraped, and beef suet shred ; heat them in a marble mortar; add pep- per, salt, cloves, pounded lemon-peel, and nutmeg grated, parsley and sweet herbs, chopped fine, a little shalot and young onion, a few bread-crumbs grated line, and yolk of egg sufficient to work it light; roll this into halls with a little flour ; if for white sauce, boil them; if for brown sauce, fry them. FoncEJiEAT Balls for Fish Sotips, or Fish Stewed.—Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling sized lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table-spoonsful of bread-crumbs, one spoonful of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, two eggs beaten for a l(,ng time ; make into balls, and fry them of a nice brown colour in butter. Forcemeat (Collops of).* — Mince some meat, and put it on the fire with a slice of butter ; a little parsley and green onions, shred fine; shake in a little flour and moisten with stock ; add pepper, and reduce to a thick sauce that will adhere to the meat; then leave it to cool; then make a paste with flour and water, and a little butter and salt; knead and roll it with a rolling-pin, as thin as a half- crown ; place your meat upon it in small parcels, a full finger^s distance from each other ; wet the paste all round the meat, and then cover it with paste, rolled to the same thickness as that on which you placed the meat, pinching the paste round the parcels of meat with your fingers. Cut the collops separate, and f .y them of a nice colotir. This dish may be made with the rejmains of a hash. Forcemeat of Fish.—Take two ounces of either turbot, soles, lobster, shrimps, or oysters, free from skin, put it into a mortar with two ounces of fresh butler, one ounce of bread-crumbs, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, a little shalot, grateil lemon-peel, and parsley, minced very fine; then pound it well till it is thoroughly well mixed and quite smooth; season it with cayenne to your taste, break in one whole egg, rub it well to- gether, it will then be ready for use. Oysters, parboiled and minceti fine, and an .anchovy may be added. FoacEMEAT/or Fowls or Meat.—Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal or fowl, some beef-suet, a little onion, some parsley, very small quantity of lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or cay- enne, and some hread-crumbs. Pound the whole in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs, beaten and strained. Forcemeat for Hare.—Two ounces of beef-suet, chopped fine, three ounces of bread-crumbs, grated fine, parsley, sha- lot, marjoram, lemon-thyme, lemon- peel, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, accord- ing to taste, and mix all together with an egg. If the liver of the hare is quite sound, it may be parboiled, minced very fiiie, and mixed with the above ingredients. Forcemeat/or Raised Pies.—Set ever the fire, with a small piece of butter, some chopped parsley, lemon-thyme, mush- rooms, and one clove of garlic, and stir them till the butter begins to look clear ; then put in the crumb of a French roll, and cover it with good stock ; stir it over the fire till it has boiled to a paste, then take it oft"; then set on the fire, in cold water, with some salt, a dozen fat chick- ens’ livers ; when they begin to boil, take them offi drain them from the wa- ter (trim off any parts that look bad), and fry them in a little clarified butter till done ; then pound them all in a mortar till they ate_ smooth, with the yolks of two eggs boiled hard ; then add to them two ounces of fat from a fillet of veal that has been dressed ; mix it well together; add the bread, &c., and thorouglily pound the whole; when they are well mixed, put in two or three bits of truf- fles, or the liquor from them ; two whole eggs, and the yolks of three, with pepper, salt, and pounded spice, according to taste; rub the whole through a fine hair sieve, put it in a basin, and cover it with lards of fat bacon, until it is wanted for use. Forcemeat (Ragodt of).*—Put a slice of fresh butter into a saucepan, with some sorrel, lettuce, chervil, parsley, and green onions; let the whuic be well washed, squeezed, and chopped fine; shake the saucepan over the lire till the liquor of the vegetables is entirely coi:- aumed; then shake in a little flour, moisten with some gravy and cnllis, and add salt and coarse pepper. Let it boil till the herbs are well done, and the sauce wholly consumed; then add the yolks of thice eggs mixed up with cream, and thicken the ragciit over the fire, wi'hout letting it boil. Forcemeat for Turtle.—One pound of fine fresh suet, one ounce ol ready- dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little shalot or cron, salt, pepper, nutinev, mace, pennyroyal,FOR { 247 ) F O VV parsley, and lemon-thyme, finely elired. Beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites, separately, as will make the in- gredients into a moist paste ; roll it into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils. When they are of a light brown colour, then take them out and drain them before the fire. If the suet happens to be moist or stale, it will be necessary to use a great many more eggs. Balls made this way are remarkably light! but rather greasy; some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. FoncEMEAT7-’a«tes.—Make a. farce the same as for Rmu Fm'cemeat Pie, only chop it .smaller, and let the crust be a rich puff-paste ; cut it to the size of the Catty-moulds, fill them with the yterce, eing first rubbed with butter; cover them with puff-paste, and let them bake, in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour; when ready to serve, add a little warm cullis with the squeeze of a lemon. Forceme.4t f</r Pies.—Take a pound of fillet of veal, a quarter of a pound of fresh pork, and some beef marrow; sea- son with pepper, cloves, and grated nut- meg; then add some veal sweetbreads, truffles, and mushrooms, mincing up the whole together very fine. Instead of veal, you may use, if you please, the white part of any poultry or game, or both in equal quantities, and instead of pork, sausage meat. It is with this stuf- fing or forcemeat that meat pies are gar- nished. If you desire to make this force- meat into balls, add the yolks of eggs, and roll them in flour. Forcemeat Pie.* —Take any sort of meat, either a tender piece ofbeef, fillet of veal, leg of mutton, game, or poultry, and chop it up with the same quantity of beef suet, parsley', young onions, and mush- rooms shred fine, and season with salt and mixed spices, moistening with two eggs, mixed with half a pint of cream. When tiie forcemeat is finished, cover the bottom of a pie-dish with paste, and put the forcemeat over it about the thick- ness of an inch, completing the pie the same as all others. Let it bake for two hours, but if made of beef or mutton, still longer. When it is done open the pie, cut the forcemeat into squares, skim oll'the fat, and put in a good cullis. Forcemeat {Ilaiu) Pie.—Tnke fillet of veal chopped, with calf's-udder scalded, raw breasts of poultry, beef suet, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two or three raw eggs; when well pounded, and seasoned, make it into balls, or into th.e shape of sausages; put them into the pie, and if you choose you may add arti- choke-bottoms, mushrooms, truffles, sweetbreads, &c., with some butter ; finish the same as all other pies. Forcemeat for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod.—Take equal quantities of fat bacon, beef suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savory, ,~i small quantity of onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram, shred fine, and one or two anchovies, a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be a great improvement, either with or with- out anchovies; add bread-crumbs, and an egg to bind. Forcejieat {Portuguese') for Baked Soles.—Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlic or shalot, some parsley', anchovy, pepper, salt, and nut- meg ; pottnd the whole fine with a few bread-crumbs added to it, and bind with the yolks of two or three eggs. FOWLS, Directions for choosing and dressing.—When a cock is young, his spurs are short; take care that you are not deceived by their having been cut or pared, a trick that is often practised. If fresh their vent will be close and dark. Hens are best, just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg ; if they are old, their combs and legs are rough. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with paper. The cook should be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall- bag, for no washing will take off the bit- ter where it has touched. If for roasting, black-legged fowls are the most moist. A good-sized fowl will take from three quarters of an hour to an hour in roasting, a middling-sized one about half an hour, and a very small one, or chicken, twenty minutes. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually' basted, that tl.'ey may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. Serve with egg sauce, bread sauce, or garnished with sausages or scalded parsley. A large barn-door fowl, well hung, should be stuRed in the crop with sau- sage-meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, like a turkey. For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged ; pick them carefully, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them in boiling water ; a good-sized one will be done in half an hour.248 FOW FO W Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is com- monly served with them. Fowls are trussed in the same manner as chickens (See Chickens). Fowls {BechamcUe of) au Gratin.*— Put half a dozen spoonsful of hechanielle, and a piece of jelly into a saucepan ; let it boil, and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon ; take the remains of some roasted fowls, and having minced it very small, put it into the bechametle; stir it lightly, and then pour it into a silver dish ; beat up the white of an egg, spread it over the mince, strew on it grated bread-crumbs, and Parmesan cheese; pnur a little melt- ed butter over the whole, and colour it with a salamander. Fowls Boiled loith Rice.—Stew a fowl in some well skimmed clear mutton broth, and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. The less liquor the fowl is done with, the better. Serve with gravy, or parsley and butter for sauce. Fowl, Boudins of* — Sprinkle some flour on a table, and lay on it some farce d Quenelles, make into whatever forms you may think proper, and poach them ; then drain, and cover them with bread- crumbs ; broil and serve them on a half glaze. Fowl d la Braize.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, and cover it all over with thin slices of bacon. Wrap round it beet-leaves, then in veal caul, and put it into a large saucepan with three pints of water, a glass of Madeira, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few blades of mace, and half a lemon. Stew it till it is quite tender; then take it up and skim off' the fat; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and strain it through a hair sieve: putto it a pintof oysters and a tea-cupful of thick cream. Keep shaking your tossing-pan over the fire, and when it has simmered a little, serve up your fowls with the bacon, beet-leaves, and caul still on, and pour the sauce hot over it. Garnish willi barberries, or red beet-root. Fowl(1 la Braize.—Txxiis a fowl the same as for boiling, season the inside with pepper and salt; put at the bottom of the vessel a slice or two of beef, lay over the fowl some thin slices of lean bacon, and bits of veal, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a carrot, half a lemon, pepper and salt; set this over a slow fire for ten minutes, tnen put to it about three pints of heel broth or warm water ; warm a glass of Nladeira and pour in ; stew this till the fowl is tender, strain the gravy through a piece of dimity, the rough side upwards, first dipped in cold water ; mix a little flour with it, boil it up, and serve it over the fowl. Oysters are a greataddition. Fowls Broiled. —Take a large fowl, and cut it into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit, and half roast; or half roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the grid- iron, by which means it will be less dry than if done wholly on the gridiron. If you half roast the fowl whole, it must be split down the back afterwards, then pep- pered, salted, and broiled. Fowl Broiled.—Split tliem down the back, well salt and pepper them; then broil them. Serve with mushroom sauce. Fowl d Campine, with raw Onions.— Truss a fowl with the legs outward, and roast it. It must be of a good colour. When done, slit the breast, cut raw onions in slices, which you should intro- duce into the slits you have made, and send it to table with a bronm poivrade highly seasoned, and very hot. Fowl, Capilotade of.*—Take tlie re- mains of a ready dre.ssed fowl, and put them into a stew'pan; then do up .some parsley, shalots, and four mushrooms, all shred small, in a little butter; as soon as the latter becomes liquid, add four ladiesful of espagnole. and two of cou- sommi, reduce, and skim it; pour it on your fowl, set it on the fire to simmer for a quarter of an hour, before you send it to table. Fowl(coW) to Dress.—Cut a fowl into quarters, and beat up one or two eggs ; grate in a little nutmeg, put in a little sauce, some chopped par.sley. and a few bread crumbs ; beat tliem well together, and dip the fowl into this mixture ; then fry them of a fine light brown ; prepare a little good gravy, thickened with a little flour, and put in a spoonful of ketchup ; lay the fried fowl in a dish, and pour tiie gravy over it; you may garnish with lemon or a few mushrooms. Fowls, Collops of.*—Take some pull paste, roll it out very thin, and lay on tmlf of it, at intervals, some small piecM oi quenelle farce, moisten the paste round each portion, and fold the remainder oyer it. press it down, and then either with a paste-cutter, or a knife, rut in semicir- cles ; fry them, and serve with bunches of fried parsley.249 ) F 0 W F 0 W Fowl Cream.*—Pound the white parts of some roasted fowls, with a quarter of a pound of sweet alinends; when it be- comes a fine paste, dilute it with half a pint of cream; strain, and then cook it in the bain marie. Fowl d la Creme.—This dish is made of a cold fowl, either roasted or stewed ; yeu take off the breast and fleshy part of the fowl, by cutting itsquare all through, with a little bread toasted, and dipped in butter, stop the aperture ; then fill the fowl with farce a la a-eme; then make a kind of wall round the fowl with but- tered paper, cover the same with bacon, to prevent the fowl from getting too much colour. If this dish is to be placed on the flanks of the table in the second course, some of the same farce may be served on toasts cut in the shape of hearts or lozenges, which are called temiAns. These are to be baked in the oven, the same as the fowls, and the fat to be well drained: serve with a thin espagnole sauce, or velmte. The toast must be fried before the farce is put over it. FowL,Oopio^gt«'so/.—This dish is pre- pared in the same manner, as the cro- quettes of fowls; but each ball is wrapped in thin slices of cold calf’s udder. Fry them, and serve on fried parsley. Fowl, Croquettes of.*—Take all the meat from a fat chicken, remove the sinews, and skin, mince it very small; put into a saucepan two ladiesful of veloute; when well reduced,add the yolks of four eggs, then the mince; mix them to- gether, and then take it from the fire; make it into balls the size of walnuts, which, (when cold),roll in bread crumbs, give them rather a long than round form, dip them in egg, bread them a second time, and fry them in hotfrilure. Fowls Davenport Fashim.—Let young fowls hang a night; take the livers, hearts, and most tender parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary; an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, according to taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, to prevent the water from getting in ; boil them in salt and water, till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with a suflicient quantity of butter to brown them. Serve tliem with melted butter, and a spoonful of any catsup you please, in the dish. Fowl a la Dreux.—The. fowl being trussed, if you wish to give additional firmness to the skin and flesh, have some boiling water ready, then lay hold of the fowl by the saddle, dip tlie breast in the water, and then dip it in cold water; when the fowl is quite cold, cut some ham into long squares; lard the breast of the fowl in imitation of a draft-board, put it into a stewpan, trimmed all round with fat bacon, and moisten with poele, there must be a brisk fire over it, and a slow one under it, as it will be sufficiently done in three quarters of an hour at tlie most. Dry the bacon with a salamander, glaze of a good colour, and serve with a sauce d I'allemande. Fowl (fillets of ) en Chemise.*—TeF.^ as many fillets of fowl as you may require, and cut them into thin slices; make a good farce,in which rolleaclioftheslices, so that they may be completely w'rapped in ; enclose these little fillets each in a piece of caul, place them en a skewer, and roast them. Serve them with veal gravy, or fowl consomme. Fowl, (fillets of) Larded.*—Take the fillets from tliree fine fowls, leaving on the ends of the pinions, trim, and lard them ; stick the end of the pinion under- neath each, to give them a better form ; butter a stewpan, put into it three ladies- ful of jelly,on which place your fillets,with a piece of buttered paper ; set the stew- pan on the fire, and let it boil, but not too fast; cover the lid with fire, and if in three quarters of an hour your jelly be not sufficiently reduced, make a better fire, and let it stand a quarter of an hour longer. Dip the larded side of your fil- lets into the jelly, and serve them with an espagnole travaille underneath : to which may be added the jelly your fillets were, cooked in. Fowl Forced.—Take a large fowl, pick it clean, cut it down the back, draw it, then take off'the skin whole, cut the flesh from the bone, and chop it up with half a pint of oysters, an ounce of beef marrow, and a little pepper and salt, mix it up with cream, lay the meat on the bones, draw the skin over it and sew up the back, cut large thin slices of bacon, lay them over the breast of the fowl, and tie the bacon on with packthread. It will take an hour to roast before a moderate fire. Make a good brown gravy sauce, pour it in the dish, take the bacon oft', lay the fowl in the gravy, and serve. Garnish with oysters, mushrooms, or pickles. Fowl en Fricandeatt.—Cut a fowl in two, and bone it tlioroughly^ make a forcemeat of a sweetbread, cut into large dice, a few fat livers, truffles, or mush- rooms, or both, clioppcd parsley', shalots, and seraped bacon, mixed with the yolks of three eggs, pepper, and salt; fill the fowl with this farce, sew it up, and give it a fry in butter for a moment; thenFOW 250 F 0 W lard it like a fricandeau; braise it in broth, with a few slices of veal and bacon : when done, sift and skim the sauce, reduce it to a caramel, and glaze the fowl with it. Serve with whatever sauce you think proper. Fowl Fried, d Vhulienne.—Slice some onions and fry them in lard till they be- come of a nice brown colour, adding a pinch of flour ; when the onions are suf- ficiently done, take them out with the skimmer, and keep them hot. Have readjt a fowl cut up as for fricassee, and the pieces blanched in boiling water. Put the pieces of fowl in the lard in which the onions were fried, till they also become of a nice colour; then pour upon them some stock, adding salt, allspice, Cayenne pepper, and a little turmeric or Indian saffron; when the fowl is done enough, put in the fried onions; boil the whole for two or three minutes, and serve, send- ing up, separately, a dish of rice, a la Creole. Fowl with the Flavour of Game.— Take a rabbit that has been kept a long time, and cut the meat of it into thin slices, lay them on a dish, and season them with pepper and salt, chopped par- sley, chibbol, shalots, and a little sweet oil; split a fowl at the back, bone it all to the legs and wings, stuff it with this, then sew it up, and give it its natural form; braize it with slices of veal and ham, covered over with slices of bacon ; soak it about a quarter of an hour ; then add a glass of white wine, a little broth, a bundle of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. When done, sift and skim the sauce; add a little cullis, and serve it over the fowl. Fowl, Glazed.—This is brazed and glazed in the same way as Fwol en Fri- candeau, only with this difference, that it is done without stuffing. Serve with its own sauce, or any other, if you like it better. Fowl with Us own Gravy.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling, lard it quite through with bacon, ham, and par- sley ; put it in a pan with a little butter, two or three slices of peeled lemon, a bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, sliced onions, carrots, pepper, salt, a little stock, and a glass of white wine; stew them gently till they arc done; skim and strain the sauce, and serve it with the fowl. Fowl {Guinea and Pea).—They cat much the same as pheasants. They should be dressed in the same manner, except when larded; then, of course, they require no bacon to be laid over them. Fowl, Ciitit into pieces, and put it into some gravy with a little cream, catsup, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg, a few oysters and their liquor, a hit of butter mixed with flour ; keep it stirring until the butter is melted, lay sippets in a dish, put in the hash and serve. Fowl as a Hedge-hog.—Make a farce with the liver chopped, scraped bacon, parsley, shalots, pepper and salt, ana stuff' a fowl with it; truss it the same as for roasting, give it a few turns over the fire in butter; then lard it close with slices of ham and bits of truffle.s, to stick pretty far out; roast it, hasting often with good oil. Serve with consomme aud cullis sauce, and a little .iuice of lemon. Fowl {Hodge-podge o/).—Cut a fowl into quarters, and braize it with pickled pork ; make a good ragout with small onions, all sorts of roots cut differently, and the braized pork ; intermix all w’ell on the dish, and serve with a thick cullis sauce. You may put to it any sort of meat you choose, taking care that the hardest kind is boiled proportionably. Fowl {Legs of) upon Ashes.—Garnish a stewpan with slices of veal, and a good slice of ham ; put the legs of fowls upon these, being first larded, through and through, with well seasoned lardons; add a tea-spnonlul of brandy, and cover the whole with slice.s of bacon, and over that, white paper; simmer both, under and over, they will furnish sufficient sauce, which must be properly sifted ; but if not a sufficient quantity, add a little cullis, and one squeeze of lemon. Fowl {Legs of). Garnished.—Braize four legs of fowls, with a dozen of small onions, broth, a few slices of bacon, a bundle of swxet herbs, two cloves, thyme, and bay-leaves; when it is half done, add .an eel, cut in pieces, six cray fish, half a glass of white wine, pepper and salt; let it braize slowly; when all is done, take the bottom of the braize, sift, and skim it very clean from fat; add a few spoonsful of cullis, (two or three), and reduce it to the consistence of a sauce; intermix the lowl and other things properly on the dish, with the onion.s, and a lew bits of fried bread; pour the 8,auce over all, with a lemon squeeze. Fowl {Legs of) an Prince.— Soak a few ,'inchovies and bits of fresh ham, cut as for larding, .and when you tliink they have lost their saltness, drain them; lard as many less of fowl as will make a good sized dish, marinade them some time, with a glass of white wine, a lemon cut into slices, pepper .and salt ; make a stuffing with butter, chopped parsley, shalots and capers; put each leg into a bit of puff-paste, together with the mari- nade, mixed with the stuffing; bake them in a slow oven ; and when done, take offF 0 W ( 251 ) F 0 W the puff-paste, and serve with a good sauce. Fowl (to marinade).— Take a large fowl, and with your finger r.aise the skin from the breast bone. Cut a veal sweet- bread very small, a few oysters, a few mushrooms, an anchovy, some pepper, a little nutmeg, some lemon-peel, and a small portion of thyme. Chop all small, and mix it together with the j'olk of an egg ; stuff it in between the skin and the flesh, being very careful not to break the skin, and then fill the body of the fowl with oysters. Then lard the breast of the fowl with bacon ; cover it with paper, and roast it. Make a good gravy. Gar- nish with lemon, and send it to table. Fowl (il/oor or Moor Game).— Moor fowl should be treated the same as par- tridges ; sometimes a bit of bread, fried brown in butter, is served under them. Fowl (Moor), with Red Cabbage. — Truss the moor game as for boiling; put them on with a little soup; stew them for half an hour; cut a stock of red cabbage in four quarters, put it to the moor fowl; season with white pepper and salt, a small bit of butter rolled in flour, and a glass of red wine. Lilt out the cabbage, and arrange it neatly in the dish, the moor fowl on it. Pour the sauce over them, and garnish with small slices of fried bacon. Fowl (Moor, or Moor Game), to Pot. —Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely; then dry them; and well season them inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Put them in as small a pot as will hold them; cover them with butter, and bake them in a very slow oven. When they are cold, take off the butter ; dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot; they should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, being very careful that it does not oil. The best method of warming it is by putting it in a basin, and setting the basin in hot water. Fowl roith Olives.—Truss and dress a fowl the same as Fowl d la Dreux. Then take some olive.s, which should be blanched till tiiey are no longer briny. Next boil them in a thin Espagmlc. Skim the sauce, and add a little lemon- juice, and pour it under the fowl. Serve with some stuffed olives, without stones. Turn the olives with a knife, so as to take out the stones, and leave the olives whole. Fowl (Panada of).— Boil a bit of crumb of bread in some good broth, add to it the breast of a couple of fowls, roasted, and very finely pounded ; sift all together in a cloth, with strong pressing, and add broth according to the consistence you would have it. Fowls with Rice, called Pillace.—Boil a pint of rice in as much water as will cover it, with black pepper, a few blades of mace, and half a dozen cloves, tied up in a bit of cloth; when the rice is tender, take out the spice ; stir in a piece of but- ter; boil a fowl and a piece of bacon; lay them in the dish, cover them with the rice; lay round the dish, and upon the rice, hard eggs, cut in halves, quar- ters, and lengthways, with onions, first boiled, and then fried. Fowl (Pudding of) d la Reine.—This dish is made of cold fowls. Take the breast and fleshy parrs of several fowls, and cut them into small dice, all of an equal size. Throw these dice into a reduction of veloute, and season them well; then put them into a dish that they may cool. When this preparation is quite cold, cut it into two equal parts, which you must make into puddings of a long shape, the size of the dish; roll them in crumbs of bread ; then dip them into egg, and roll them again in bread. You must be careful that the extremities are well covered with the crumbs, otherwise they will break in the frying-pan. When they are fried to a good colour, drain them, wipe off the grease with a clean towel, and serve with a thin veloute, or green parsley fried between. Fowl (Puree of). * — Take all the white part of three cold roast fowls, and pound it; then add about an ounce of calf’s udder, a little salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; pound them all together until well rnixed. Dissolve two spoonsful of white jelly or consomme, and three of beehamelle or veloute •, and when liquid, add to it the pounded meat; stir i^em together over the fire, but do not let it boil ; strain it into another vessel, and keep it hot in the bain-marie: serve it with bread in the usual manner. Fowls (Quenelles o/).* —Take the breasts of lour fowls, and scrape the meat oil' with a knife; pound it well, and pass it through a quenelle sieve into a pl.ate: soak the crumb of a French roll in milk till quite soft, then put it into a cloth to press out all the moisture, and pound as much of that as you h.ave meat; then take an equal quantity of butter, and beat it up with the bread, until (he butter cannot be distinguished, when the foivl should be added, and all three ingredients pounded together; to this put four yolks of eggs, or more if necessary, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; when the whole is well pounded, whip the whites of two eggs, and mix them in lightly; poach a little of it to try ifF O W F O W { 252 it be sufficiently seasoned, and then set it aside for use. Fowl( Quenelles of ).*—Take a dessert spoonful 01 farce d quenelles, and smooth it with the blade of a knife, in warm water; lay it on a buttered si:ucepan-lid, and when you have done as many as you wish to have, put them gently into boil- ing water, with a little salt in it, and set them by the side of the stove that they may not boil too fast; turn them lightly with the back of a spoon, and when they begin to swell, drain them on a cloth; dish, and^ pour over them a reduced fowl consomme. Fowls Roasted.—Well pepper and salt the fowls before you spit them; roast them before a clear fire; froth them up when nearly done, by sprinkling them over with flour and salt, and basting them with butter. When done, be careful in taking out the ske,wers. Serve them with very good clear gravy in the dish, and bread or egg sauce in a boat. Fowl Roasted with Chesimts.—Roast some chesnuts very carefully, so that they may not be burnt, then take off the skins, and peel them. Take about a dozen of them, cut them small, and bruise them in a mortar. Parboil the liver of a fowl; bruise it, and cut about a quarter of a pound of ham or bacon, and pound it. Then mix them all to- gether. with a good quantity of chopped parsley, sweet herbs, some mace, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. When these are all well mixed together, put it into your fowl, and roast it. The best way of doing this is to tie the neck, and hang it up by the legs to roast, with a string, and then baste it vvith butter. For sauce, take the rest of the chesnuts, peel and skin them, put them into some good gravy, with a little white wine ; and thicken it wdth a piece ol butter rolled in flour. Then place your fowl in the dish ; pour in the sauce; garnish with lemon, and serve. Fowls Roasted to cat like Pheasant.— They mnstbe full grown ; leave the heads on; truss them like pheasants; lard them with bacon, and roast them. Serve them with gravy and bread sauce. Fowl Rousted ivith a Ragoilt of Oys- ters.—Make a forcemeat, to which add a (Iczen oysters; stuff the craw; cover the breast of the fowl with slices of bacon, then asheetof paper; roast it; take some ctiliis, or good gravy, put in some oys- ters, with their liquor strained, a little mushroom-powder, or catsup, lemon- iuice. thicken'it with flour ; add cayenne and salt; boil it up: when the fowl is roasted, take off the bacon, and serve the sauce in the dish- Fowl (Salad (/).*-Cut up a couple of cold roasted fowls; take off the skin, and trim them ; lay them in a deep dish, with salt, oil, and vinegar; when they have snaked in this a short time, place the fowl on a dish, round which lay some lettuces, well washed and cut in quarters, hard eggs also, quartered, fillets of anchovies, gherkins, capers, and a ravigotte. Pour the dressing over the whole, and serve. Fowls in the Form of a large Sausage, —Cut a fowl in two, bone it, and flatten the meat with a roller; put some force- meat upon each half, made of breast of fowl roasted, bread crumbs soaked in cream, scraped bacon, udder, parsley, shalots, salt, and fine spices, mixed with the yolks of three eggs; tie up the pieces in the form of large sausages, wrap them in slices of bacon, and then in pieces of linen cloth; braze them in broth, with a glass of white wine, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions and carrots. When they are done,untie the cloth, take off the bacon ; squeeze them gently between a cloth, to press out the fat; and serve with what sauce you choose. Fowl (Souffle of).*—Pound the fille's of four roasted fowls, alKtut two ounces of calf’s udder, salt, and pepper ; when these are well beaten, put tliem intoa stewpan, with four ladiesful of veloutc ; make it quite hot, (but not to boil), and then pass it through a sieve into a basin ; add to it the yolks of five eggs, and the whites of two, wfiipped as for biscuit-s. Cement fried bread round the edge of a dish; pour in the souffle, smooth the surface, and put it into an oven ; as soon as it has risen properly, and is firm to the touch, take it out, and serve it in- stantly. Fowl Stewed.—Truss a fowl the same as for boiling; put it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, chopped jrarsley, shalot, and mushrooms; stew it on a s[ow fire about a quarter of an hour, turning it often. Then put it into another stew- pan, with slices of veal and ham. and all the first seasoning. Cover it with slices of bacon ; stew it gently for a quartcrof an hour longer, then add a little whole pep- per, and some salt, a little stock, and some white wine, and finish it on a slow fire; then skim and str^in the braise. When done, squeeze in the juice of a lemon ; wipe the fowl clean from the fat, and serve. Fowl Stored. Place four clean skewers at tliO bottom of astewiran. and place the fowl upon them. 1 nt in a quart of gravy, a liunch of celery, cut small, and washed very clcao, and two or three blades of mace. Let it stew¥0W ( 253 ) FO W gently till there remains only just sulh- cient for sauce; then add a good piece of butter rollyed in flour, two spoonsful of red wine, the same quantity of catsup, and a sufficient quantity of pepper and salt to season it. Place the fowl on a dish, and serve the sauce over it. Fowl Slvffedwifh Black Pudding Pre- paration.—Fry two fine ciiopped onions in butter till they are almost done; then add chopped parsley, shalots, a little pounded coriander seed, pepper and salt, half a pound of tripe or marrow, the yolks of four raw eggs, and half a pint of hog’s blood ; tliicUen it over the fire without boiling; take out the breast-bone of a fowl, and stuff it with this prepara- tion ; sew it up, and roast it with bacon and paper tied over it; serve with cullis and consommi for sauce. Fowls Stuffed or Forced.—Make a forcemeat with half a pound of beef-suet, as much crumb of bread grated fine, the meat of a fowl cut very small; beat these in a mortar, and a pound of veal with them, some truffles, morels and mushrooms cut small, a few sweet herbs and par.sley shred fine, some grated nut- meg, pepper, salt, and lemon-peel grated; bone your fowls, fill them with the force- meat, and roast them. Serve with good gravy, with truffles and morels. The fowls mav be larded if you choose. FowLti la TaWare.—Take a fine fowl, turn in the legs as usual, then cut it in two, take the bones off from the back, cut the breast off, break those of the legs, flatten the fowl with the back of your knife, and season it with salt and pepper; then dip it in clarified butter, and next into bread-crumbs, equally on all sides. Next broil it up to a fine colour, on a slow fire, that it may be done thoroughly. Send it up with a brown Italienne. Thrust your knife into it to ascertain if it is well done; it requires an hour, or at least three quarters, to be done properly. Fowl with Truffles.—Truss a large fowl as for boiling, put truffles into the inside well stewed, and prepared; then put it on the spit, with a slice of fat ba- con on tbe breast, and paper tied over that; roast it well, set it on the dish, garnish it with truffles in sauce d I’espag- nole, or bmwn sance, and serve. Fowl (fVild).—Tlie flavour of wild fowl is preserved better by not stuffing them; put into each, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter. Wild fowl do not require so much dressing as tame ; they should be done of a fine colour, and nicely frothed. A rich brown gravy sliould be served in the dish, and when the breast is cut into slices, before it is taken from the bone, it will be much improved by a squeeze oflemon, some salt and pepper. If you wish to take off the fishy smell which these birds frequently have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping pan, and for the first ten mi- nutes baste them with this; then re- move the pan, and keep constantly bast- ing with batter. Fowl t.TFild) Pfe.—-The fowl should be trussed like a duck for a pie (or for any thing else) larded with anchovies, seasoned with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs; put a good quantity of butter into the pie, and finish the same as all others. Fowl (/-Fings of) Larded.*—Take as many wings of fowl as you may require, lard, and put them into a saucepan, with a slice of veal, a little streaked bacon, and sweet herbs ; vvhen sufficiently done, lay them in a dish on any vegetable you please (previously boiling them in good broth), and serve them as a aide dish. There are various other ways of send- ing the wings of fowl to table ; but they are generally cooked as above, or accord- ing to the taste and fancy ; only two or three recipes are, therefore, introduced here. Fowls {kVingsof) aupainde beurre.* —Boil the wings in broth, with some onions, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, when done and quite cold, wrap each wing in a large slice of butter, which must be pretty firm ; if it should be soft, work a proper quantity of flour into it, to bring It to the right consistence ; when all the wings are covered, lay one over the other, press the whole together lightly, so that it only forms one piece; then dip your hands in flour, that in smoothing this piece the butter may not adhere to them; then set it in a cool place for half an hour. In the meanwliile prepare a quantity of bread-crumbs well dried in the oven, and having fastened the but- tered wings to a spit, put them before a slow fire, take a handful of the. bread- crumbs, and when the butter begins to melt, shake them over it, and continue this operation till the butter has taken up all the crumbs, and no longer runs, when it may be put nearer the fire to finish the cooking; take care to keep the whole of a clear equal brown. (IFings oj ) d la Prnvencale.*— Lard the wings with small pieces of an- chovies, instead of bacon, and cook them m a closely covered saucepan, with some streaky bacon, artichoke bottoms, aspa- ragus tops, and garlic, a sufficient quan- tity of broth, and seasoned with salt, nutmeg, ginger and pepper. When nuite tender, take out the wings, and lay tiieiaFRA ( 254 ) F R I in a dish ; add a little veal gravy to the liquor, reduce it to tlie proper consis- tence, and pour it very hot over the wings. The garlic, ginger, and pepper may be omitted at pleasure. Fowl {JVings of) en Redingote.*— Take the number of wings you intend to use, and having trimmed, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, taking care that the whole of the wing is covered; tie them round, and put them into a sauce- pan, with some broth, parsley, a bay-leaf, salt, and pepper. When done, take them out and let them drain ; then cover them with bread-crumbs, and broil them oyer a clear slow fire ; take offthe strings, dish, and serve them with any sauce you think proper. FRANGIPANE.'*'—Take a saucepan, and put into it five spoonsful of flour, five eggs, a pint of milk, an ounce of butter and a little salt; set it on the fire, stir- ring constantly until it has boiled ten minutes, taking great care that it does not burn; then pour it into a basin, and let it cool. Take a few almonds, (to every six sweet put one bitter), bruise them, and some macaroons, and when reduced to powder, mix them with a little crisped orange-flower (also in powder), and a sufficient quantity of powder-sugar to sweeten it; add these to the above pre- paration, and stir them in well with a wooden spoon. If your frangipane be too thick, add another egg or two, and then make whatever use of it you may de- sire. You may, if you think proper, substi- tute pistachios for the sweet almonds, in which case a little spinach essence must be added to colour it, the macaroons and orange-flowers omitted, and three bitter almonds only used. Frangipane, Sonfflu of.*—Put six des- sert spoonsful of water into a saucepan, with four yolks undone whole egg, a pint of cream, and an ounce of butter; put them on the fire, and stir constantly till done, when it may be taken off and set to cool; mix together six dessert spoons- ful of powder-sugar, two bitter and three sweet macaroons, some dried biscuits, and crisped orange-flowers all crushed to powder, add these to the above prepara- tion, stir it well, and, if necessary, add more yolks of eggs; whip the whites of five eggs as for biscuits, put them to the rest, and then pour the whole into a sil- ver dish, set it in a gentle oven, and serve it the instant it is done. Frangipane Tartlets of.*— Lme some tartlet moulds with pull-paste, fill them up with the frangipane, to which add a small quantity of ckoux paste, dorcz, aud lay on each a band of the puff-paste twisted in the form of a snail; bake them in a hot oven, and glaze them white. Frangipane, Tourteof.*—Take some pull-paste, and having rolled it out to the proper thickness, cut it to the size and shape you may desire; roll out the re- mainder of the paste to a band sufficiently long to surround it, and about an inch and a half wide; place this round the under crust, first moistening the edges that they may adhere properly; put frangipane (see that article) into this, ornament it with the paste according to your fancy, dorezthe. edges, bake it in a hot oven ; when nearly done, sprinkle sugar over, and glaze it; serve it either hot or cold. FRICASSEE jBroum.* — Take two or three young rabbits, cut them in pieces, and stew them in gravy made of beef, some whole pepper, two shalots, one or two anchovies, a bit of horse-radish, and a little sweet marjoram powdered small. Stew the rabbits about a quarter of an hour, then take them out of the gravy, strain the liquor, fry your rabbits in lard or butter; add a glass of claret; you may fry some forcemeat balls, made with the livers of the rabbits parboiled, and a little parsley shred small, some nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, a few bread crumbs, and two buttered eggs; mix these all together, make them up into balls, dip them in the yolk of egg, roll them in flour, then fry them, and gar- nish your dish with them, with fried parsley, and sliced lemon. Fricassee, fVhite.*—Cut a couple of rabbits into pieces, and let them soak in warm water to cleanse them from the blood ; then lay them in a cloth to dry : put them into a stewpan with milk ana water, and let them stew till they are tender, and then take a clean pan, and put into it half a pint of cream, and a quarter of a pound of butter; stir them well together till the butter is melted; be careful to keep it cons^ntly stirring, or it will be greasy ; put in the rabbits, take a little dried mace, a little pounded nutmeg, and a few mushrooms; shake tliem together for a few minutes, and then put it to the rabbits. You may add white wine if you choose. FRITTERS. — Make them of any of the batters directed for pancakes, by- dropping a small quantity into the pan. or make the plainer sort, and put pared apples sliced and cored in the batter, and fry some of itwfith each slice. Currants or sliced lemon, .as thin as possible, arc very nice. Fritters.—Fritters should be sent toFRI ( 255 ) FRI Z 2 table served upon a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. FaiTTERs a VAnglo-Frawiaise.* — Take a marrow puridiiiK, and when nearly cold, cut it into thin slice.s, and then cut them again into pieces two inches long, by three quarters of an inch wide, dip tliern into batter, and fry them in the usual manner; when drained, glaze them with fine sugar, and serve them vej-y hot. The batter for the above fritters is made as follows Put a glass and a half of water, a grain of salt, and two ounces of fresh butter into a saucepan ; when it boils stir in a sufficient quantity of flour to make it a i-ather firm batter, keep it stirring three minutes, then pour it into another vessel. Fritters au Blanc.*—Mix together a handful of rire-flonr and some milk, set them on the fire, stirring constantly, add a little cream, sugar, lemon-peel, and orange-flowers ; when it has become of a proper consistence, take it from the fire ; as soon as it is cold, roll it into balls about the size of a nut, dip them in bat- ter and fry them. Fritters Blondin.*—Put some butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add to it a glass of milk, and a pinch of salt, keep it on the fire till it boils; then mix in a sufficient quantity of flour to make it into a consistent paste, which will not stick to the fingers; spread it on a table, roll it out to the thickness you may require, cut it in round, oval, or any other formed pieces you maydiink proper, and fry them of a nice colour, in the best oil; sprinkle sugar over, and serve them. Fritters {French) of Brandy Fruits* —Take a dozen apricots (or otlier fruits) preserved in brandy, drain, and cut them in half; then wrap them in wafers cut round and previously moistened, dip them in the same kind of batter as that used for fritters d I’Anglo-Francaise, and fry them; sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. Fritters d la Cote,* — Soak in brandy some leaves and the young and tender shoots of the vine, dip them in a batter made of milk., yolks of eggs, and flour, fry them in boiling oil, sprinkle them with sugar. Elder flowers are made into fritters in the same manner. Fritters d la Dauphine.*—Take a pound of brioche paste, and roll it out as thin as possible, to tlie form of a long square ; on part of tliis lay small quan- tities of apricot marmalade at intervals, slightly wet the paste round each piece of preserve, and lay over the plain part of the paste so as to cover the other com- pletely, press it down lightly that the marmalade may not escape in the cook- ing, and cut out your fritters with a cir- cular paste-cutter of two inches in dia- meter ; flour them a little, and then lay them in rather a hot friture, when the paste will swell them into little balls ; as soon as they are_ of a proper colour take them out, drain them on a napkin, sprinkle them with fine sugar, and serve them. Fritters, Mignon.* — Put two good spoonslul of flour into a stewpan, and mix it with the whites and yolks of two eggs, a little salt, two ounces of sugar, some lemon-peel grated, half a tea-spoonful of milk, and half a tea-spoonful of cream ; stir it over a slow fire, and, when done and well thickened, spread the cream upon a floured dish, shake flour over it, and, when cold, cut it into bits with a paste-cutter, the same as [orpetits-pates ; dip each bit into a paste made with two spoonsful of flour, a spoonful of brandy, and a little salt, mixed with two eggs; fry the fritters, and serve, glazed with sugar and a salamander. Fritters, Royal.—Put a quart of new milk into a saucepan, and as soon as it begins to boil, pour in a pint of white wine; then take it off, and let it stand five or six minutes, skim off the curd, and put it into a basin ; beat it up well with six eggs, and season it with nutmeg; then beat it with a whisk, and add flour sufficient to give it the proper consist- ence of batter. Put in some sugar and fry them quick. Fritters, Souffles.*—Mix the yolks of four eggs, half a spoonful of olive oil, and a pinch of salt, with half apound of flour; whip the whites of the eggs to a snow, and add it to the rest. When your paste is of the consistence of a tliick batter, take a spoonful of it and roll it in flour ; make each ball about the size of a walnut, throw them into a hot/re^Kre of oil, and fry them. Sprinkle them with sugar, and serve them hot. Fritters, So?#es.*—Make some flour and beer into a batter that will flow a little ; take a little qf it out with a spoon, throw it into a frying-pan with boiling oil; the moment it rises, take it out, and proceed in the same way till all the bat- ter is used ; then sprinkle them with salt, and serve. Fritters, Spanish.—Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, about the thickness of your finger, in whatever shape you please ; soak it in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, andF R U F RU ( 256 ) an egp. When thoroughly soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. FiiiTTERS en Surprise.*—Take eight middling-sized apples, pare, and leave on the stalks; cut off about a fourth part of the stalk end of each apple, and scoop out the inside of each piece, so as to form a sort of cup with a lid ; put them to soak for two hours in a glass of brandy with a little lemon-peel and cinnamon; at the end of that time take them out, drain, and fill each apple with apricot marmalade, or frangipane ; mix up a little flour and white of egg to cement the tops of the apples to the other parts; dip them in batter and fry them. When they are of a proper colour, glaze and serve them. Fritters, Stjringed.*—Make a rather stiff batter with some flour, a glass of water, and half a pound of butter; then put it into a mortar and pound it, adding a small quantity of orange-flowers, grated lemon-peel, sweet and bitter al- monds (also pounded); dilute the whole with as many yolks of eggs as will make the batter flow easily. Pour this preparation into a syringe, the end of which is pierced according to your fancy; force the preparation through, and fry them in the usual manner. FROTH to put on Cream., Custard, or Trifle.—Sweeten halfa pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit; put to it the whites of four eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them till it will stand as high as you wish, and being put on the cream, &c._with a spoon, it will take any form; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. FRUIT Biscuits.—To the pulp of any scalded fruit, put an equal quantity of sugar sifted, beat it two hours ; then put it into little white paper forms; dry them in a cool oven, turn them the next day, and in two or three days box them. Fruit {to prepare) for Brandy.*—Take tlie proposed quantity of fruit, gathered before tlieyare perfectly ripe ; dry them carefully, prick and put them into cold water; when all in, set the vessel over a moderate fire, keeping the water, how- ever, constantly nearly boiling, until the Iruit will give to the touch; then tlirow them, with great care, into cold water again ; drain away this water, and add fresh ; change the water twice more within a quarter of an hour, after which, drain them for the last time, and put them in bottles ; if any of the fruit is the least broken or bruised, it must be put aside, as it would spoil the rest. In the meanwhile, take a proper quan- tity of sugar (as a pound and a half for twenty-five peaches); clarify and boil it to la nappe ; measure, and put double its quantity of good brandy; mix and pour them into a glazed pan ; let them etand awhile, and then pour the mixture on the fruit. Fruit, Candied.—\t must first be pre- served, then dipped in warm water,dried with a cloth, and strewed all over with sifted sugar, and dried in a stove oroven, turning as occasion requires. Fruit, Candied.—Vvhen the fruit is preserved, dry it in a stove till the syrup IS quite out, dip it into syrup boiled to candy height, and dr^it again. All dried and candied fruit must be kept in a very dry place. Fruit {Dried) au Caramel.'—Cut a number of osier twigs to about three inches in length, and on the end of each, place a dry preserved fruit; then take a small piece of butter, which must be per- fectly free from either salt or water, as otherwise it will adhere to the marble slab, on which it must be rubbed with the palm of the hand all over. The pre- parations properly performed, take some clarified sugar, the quantity must be in proportion to the fruit, and bod it to caramelj then take an osier twig in each hand, dip the fruit into the sugar, turn them round several times that the sugar may adhere on all sides. When the ca- ramel begins to cool, layihe fruit on the buttered slab, and proceed in the same way with the remainder of the fruit until as many are done as are required ; when all are done and cold, take out the twip, and wrap each fruit in paper, with a de- vice as usual. As this operation cannot be performed too quickly, it would be advisable to have two or more persons to do them. F RUiT to prepare for Children.—Put ap- ples sliced, or plums, currants, goose- berries, &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them ; place the jar on a hot hearth, or in a saucepan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread or rice may be stewed with the fruit, or the fruit may be eaten with slices of dry bread, or with rice, plain boiled. Fruits {Four) Conserve of.*—Take a pound of etich of the following fruits :— Currants, strawberries, cherries, and raspberries, press the juice from them, strain it, set it over a moder.ite fire till reduced to lialf the quantity. Dissolve twelve pounds of sugar, skim it well, and then boil it to cassi; take it from the fire, add the juice, and replace it: let it boil once only, then stir it till the sugar bubbles. Have your cases or moulds ready, and pour the conserve iuto them.FRU 257 ) FRY Z 3 Fruit in Jelly.—Have in readinees a plain mould, either long or round, about three inches deep; then have ready some mould jelly, and spread it at the bottom of the mould, about a quarter of an inch thick; let it be cold; then put in ripe peaches, grapes, or any sort of ripe fruit you please, preserved fruit, or China oranges cut into quarters, or whatever shape you choose; put in a little warm jelly, and let it stand till it is cold, to fasten the fruit in its place, otherwise it will rise up ; then fill the mould up with warm jelly, let it stand till it is quite cold, then turn it into a dish, and gar- nish it according to your own taste. Fruit (Preset-ved) Remarks on using. —Preserved fruits should not be baked long; those that have been preserved with their full proportion of sugar, re- quire no baking; the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a small dish or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a tin cut out according to your taste. Fruit, Preserved (Biscuifs of).—Take dried preserved fruits, such as apricots, verjuice, grapes, plums, oranges, and a little orange-flower marmalade; pound them together, and sift in a sieve ; then mix with it yolks of new laid eggs, and fine powder-sugar, until it comes to a supple paste, not too liquid ; then bake them on paper in a moderate oven. Frvit {topreserve Green).—Take pip- pins, apricots, pears, plums, or peaches, while they are green ; put them in a pre- serving-pan,cover them with vine-leaves, and then with fine clear spring water ; put on the cover of the pan, set them over a very clear fire; when they begin to simmer, take them ofl’ the fire, and carefully with the slice take them out; peel and preserve them as other fruit. Fruits (to Green, for Preserving or Take pippins, apricots,pears, plums, peaches, while green, for the first, or radish pods and French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both pro- cesses, and put them, with vine-leaves tinker and over, into a block-tin pre- serving-pan, with spring water to cover them, and then put on the tin cover to exclude all air; set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice; they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. Fruit to jyreserve for Tarts or Family Desserts.—Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples; gather when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold, a pound ; strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf sugar pounded ; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down ; then put the jars up to the neck in_a large stewpan of water, and let it boil gently for three hours. All sorts of fruit should be kept free from damp. Fruit Pudding, Baked.—Rub goose- berries, or any other fruit, througha hair sieve ; and to half a pint of the fine pulp, add a quarter of a pound of Naples bis- cuits, three ounces of oiled fresh butter, half a pint of cream, grated nutmeg, sugar according to taste, and six eggs. Beat all these ingredients together for ten minutes; then add slices of citron, and bake the mixture in a dish with puff- paste round the rim. Fruit, iftpe (Tart of),—Take either cherries, currants, apples, &c. and stew them till they are half done in a good syrup, with a little brandy mixed with it. VVhen they are cold, line a dish with crisp tart paste; put the fruit into it, and round the edge a rim of puff-paste, two inches broad, and in the centre, upon the fruit, a small ornament cut out of puff-paste. Put it to bake in a moder- ately heated oven. FRYIN G.—Frying, though one of the most common culinary occupations, is one of those that is very seldom properly attended to, and consequently rarely well performed. The fire for frying should be kept sharp and clear—to keep the melted fat at a sufficiently high temperature, and with- out this precaution the fried substance cannot be browned. The meat is pre- pared in the same way as in broiling, by cutting it into chops or slices, of not more than half an inch or three quarters in thickness. Beef suet, lard, or oil, being melted in a pan and broujtht to the boiling point, or nearly so (which may be ascertained by putting into the fat a few sprigs of parsley, or a piece of bread, which, if they become crisp without acquiring a black colour, the fat is hot enough for frying), the meat should be put in. It is not necessary that the meat should be wholly immersed in the boiling fat; if it be immersed in part it will be sulficient. H hen flesh is the substance to be fried, the pieces, previously to their being put into the pan, are sometimes brushed over with eggs and crumbs of stale bread, flour, or any other farinaceous substance, rish are scarcely ever sent to table with- out being done in this manner when fried. One of the best preparations for this.pur-GAM ( 258 ) GAL pose, 16 oatmeal, flour, or crumbs of stale bread, made into a liquid paste with tiie yolks and wliiles of eggs. Fish is best fried in oil. ■A rich broivn colour is communicated to the tried substance, by pressing it, when nearly cooked, against the bottom of the pan. G. GAL.'VNTlNEo/FoteJorGOTne.*—Take lialf a pound of leg of veal, a pound of fat bacon, and half a pound of ham, all ready dressed, and inince them as small as pos- sible ; mix with these an ounce of spiced salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two des- sert spoonsful of sweet herbs, the same quantity of truffles, all blanched and shred small; when well mixed together, put this farce into a basin; then take a pound and a half of truffles, pare, and cut each truffle in four; choose a fine red calf’s tongue, take off the skin, cut it lengthwise into six strips; cut in the same manner a pound of raw ham, or fresh pork fat, raw. Pick, singe, and bone, a good sized fowl, lay it open on a napkin, cut away half the meat of the breast and legs, and put the pieces on those parts where the skin is most exposed, so that the whole maybe the same thickness ; strew over it spiced salt, in the proportion of four drachms to a pound ; spreail over the whole half the farce prepared above, on that half the truffles, then the tongue and ham fat, taking care to vary the colour; season them lightly with the spiced salt; then lay lialf what remains of the farce, and on that the truffles, tongue, and ham, as before; cover the whole of these with the remainder of the farce, and roll it up either as a ball or an egg; sew up the skin so that none of the stuffing may escape; and wrap it first in slices of bacon, and then in a fine cloth; tie the ends of the latter very tight; and that the form may be properly preserved, tie three stiings round the body, but not tightly. Take a sa\icepfin, line it with bacon, put in the galantine, put round it four onions, four carrots, a bunch of pars- ley and scallions, thyme, basil, bay leaf, four cloves, the bones of the fowl, two knuckles of veal, or two calf's feet, a suf- ficient quantity of stock or fowl consomme, to cover the galantine, a glass of Madeira wine, and two dessert spoonsful of old brandy. Cover the whole of this with a piece of buttered paper, the exact shape and size of the saucepan, and set it on a, fierce fire for a short time, after which let it simmer gently for three hours, then re- move it, and when it has stood for an liour, take out the galatUine carefully, and place it breast uownwards on a deep dish, and squeeze it a little, press out what moisture it may contain, putj'a saucepan lid on it, on which place eight or ten pounds weight, to make the galan- tine rniher wide than high. Strain the jelly through a silk sieve, (put aside the gross parts,) and let it stand a quarter of an hour, then draw it off, and clarify it. The galantine being quite cold, take away the cloth and bacon, trim it a little if necessary, and glaze it completely. Place it on a dish, and garnish it with the jelly, according to your fancy. All sorts of _ galantines whether of chickens, turkies, partridges, or any other kind of game or poultry, are done in this mariner. GALETS. * — Take three pints of flour, and heap it together; making a hole in the middle, put into this hole one pound of fresh butter, one ounce of fine salt, and some water; knead and roll, flouring the table, to prevent the paste from adhering; roll it out to the thick- ness of an inch ; brush it over with egg, put it in the oven, and bake it of a good colour. GAME (to ^eep.)—Game may often be made fit for eating when it seems spoiled, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If you tl.ink birds will not keep, draw, crop, and pick them, then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt: have in readiness a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one, drawing them up and down by the legs, so that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in, then hang them up in a cold place ; when they are completely drained, well salt and pepper the insides, and thoroughly wash them before roasting. The most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved by these means; those birds that live by suction cannot be done in this manner, as they are never drawn, and it might so happen that the heat would make them worse, as the water could not pass through them. Pieces of charcoal put about birds and meat, will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. Game, Chavd-froidof* — Roast six arlridges, take off" the legs, wings, and reasts, remove all the skin, trim, and dry them well, then put them into a saucepan ; put into another saucepan the remains and bones of the birds, a glass of Rhenish wine, one of white Burgundy, a hay leaf, and five or sixshalots; set this over a moderately heated stove, andgam (259) gam when half reduced, add a ladleful of veal blond ; as soon as it boils set it on the corner of the stove for about an hour, skim it carefully, then strain it tbrougli a napkin into another saucepan, with the addition of two ladiesful of clarified es- pagnole, wlien it boils, set it as before on the corner of the stove ; in half an hour’s time, skim, and replace it over the stove, stirring it constantly with a wooden spoon, or, if you _ wish it exceedingly clear, stir it at intervals only, putting in each time a dessert spoonful of aspic jelly. When reduced to the proper consistence, strain^it again into a small saucepan, and stir it inces- santly with a sauce ladle, that it may cool smoothly ; when no more than luke- warm, pour a quarter of it on the par- tridges, shaking the saucepan lightly, and then place on ice for half an hour; at the end of that time, lay the partridge legs very close, en couroyme, on these lay the wings, then three breasts, over these two more breasts, and on the top of the whole a tine truffle, dressed in wine, and a large well-blanched cock’s-comb ; then beat up the remainder of the sauce wdth a spoon •, if it be too thick, set it on the fire an instant, but if not sufficiently so, place it on ice j when of the proper con- sistence, it quits the spoon with diffi- culty; remove the truffle and cock’s- comb, cover the chaud-froid carefully with the sauce, and then replace them. Oarnish the dish with a border of roots, or aspic jelly. Ga.me (Essence of.)*—Take four rab- bits, four partridges, two quasis of veal, two pounds of steaks ; put them into a stewpan, with a bottle of white wine ; boil theni until the whole is entirely reduced to a jelly ; then add to it broth, and con- somme, (equal quantities of each,) eight carrots, ten onions, three cloves, a little thyme and basil; let the whole boil very gently, until the meat is quite done ; then strain it through a napkin. No salt need be put into it, as the broth and consomme are sufficiently seasoned to flavour the essence of game. Game, Farce for.*—Chop some beef- marrow, and streaky bacon, and pound them well, then take the livers of your game, and pound them also with the marrow; add salt, spices, yolks of eggs, and a little cream ; if itljetoo thin, boil it for a quarter of an hour, keeping it con- .stantly stirring, to prevent it from burn ing. Game Fritters.*—Take any of those parts of cold roasted game, which can be cut into thin slices, dip them into good batter, and fry them in olive oil, or lard. Sprinkle the fritters when done, with salt and spices, pounded very fine. Game, Fumet of.* — This is a clear sauce, made in a si milar manner to essence of same; when strained oft, put it into a saucepan, and let it boil, then set it by the side of the stove, and add to it halt a glass of cold water, to make the scum rise, which must he carefully removed ; then reduce it to the consistence of syrup. This is used with dishes of game, bread- ed, broiled, &c. Game (f umet of) Sairce.’*—Take three or four partridges or young wild rabbits, two carrots, three or four onions, two cloves, two bay leaves, a little thyme, and half a bottle of white wine ; reduce all to a jelly, and then moi.sten it with essence of game,orifyou have none, with consommi. Set it on a gentle fire till the game is done, then strain it through a napkin, and stir into it six or eight spooiislul of espagnole, or any other sauce which |s convenient; reduce, and then strain it again, and put it into a stewpan, in the bain marie. Game, Petits Patis of.*—Make some petits pales with godiveau, as dii-ected, (&et pelitspates ot gra\y) \ when baked, take out the godiveau, and put in its place the following preparation: take some mushrooms, parsley, a clove of garlic, scallions, two cloves, and a piece of butter, give them a few turns in a stew- pan, and then add a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, veal blond, salt and pepper; stew them gently, till the mush- rooms are done, when put in some cold roasted game, cut into dice, take out the parsley, and beat up the whole. Serve X.\ie petits pates v/iXh Seville orangerjuice. Game, Potage o/.*—Take the. lai^je fillets from six partridges, and the. most fleshy parts of a young wild rabbit, set them aside,and make the remainder into a consomme, with two or three pounds of shin of beef, and the usual vegetables and seasoning; then having taken out all the membranes, &c. from the rabbit and partridges, which were set aside, pound and rub them through a sieve. Make a panada with bread crumbs, a little consomme, and the yolks of two eggs; let it thicken and gratinez, stir- ring It constantly; mix the pounded game with an equal quantity of panada, and a small piece of fresh butter, or ready dressed calf’s udder; add salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, truffles, or mush- rooms ; pound the whole witli two more yolks of eggs and one white, beaten to a snow; make this into balls, and lay them on a flat plate, that they will easily slide oflT into the boiling consomme, which must be well skimmed; when the balls are sufficiently done, pour the whole into the soup tureen, and serve it.GAR ( 260 GAR Game Pudding.*—Trim and truss a sufficient quantity of small birds, such as quails, jarks, thrushes, &c., and fry tliem lightly in butter, with a handful of sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and any other sea- soning you please; then make a thick, stiff paste, in which put the game, close paste round it, tie it in a cloth, and put it in a large saucepan of boiling water ; when it has boiled an hour, tiike it from the cloth, open the crust, and pour in some good cullis, or espagnole, close it again, and then serve it hot. Game, Puree of.*—Pound the meat of any sort of game you think proper, with a little panada, and moisten it with con- somme. Break the bones, and boil them in some good broth, which add to the. puree., and a small piece of butter ; boil all together a few minutes, and then serve it poured overbread. Game Soup.*—Put into a moderate sized saucepan three pounds of beef- steaks, four old partridges, a knuckle of veal, a pheasant, carrots, onions, four heads of celei'y, three cloves, and a bunch of fennel; while it is doing, take three cold roasted partridges, and pound them in a mortar, with a piece of crumb of bread, about three times as big as an egg, and previously snaked in broth ; moisten the partridges also with broth, and when sufficiently pounded, pass it through a sieve ; put to the prow some of the broth, and set it on a gentle fire for some time, taking care that it does not boil. Dip your bread in the usual manner in the soup, (made as directed above,) and serve. GARBURE d la Bearnohe.*—Blanch four cabbages and a dozen lettuces, put them into a braising pan, with a piece of sa-eaked bacon, an equal quantity of bam, previously soaked, a sausage with- out garlic, and the legs of a goose, some broth without salt, a bunch of parsley, some roots, and two onions, a clove stuck in each; let these stand over the fire till tlioroughly done, then drain the meat and vegetables separately; strain the liquor, skim, and clarify it;_ t.ake some rye-bread, cut the crumb of it into very thin slices; then have ready a deep dish that will bear the fire, and lay the cabbages, lettuce, bacon and bread dip- ped in the broth, round the inside of the (lish, leaving a space or kind of well in the centre, which fill up with a puree of green pease,lheham,and the legs of goose; cut the sausage into slices, and place them round the edges. Put the dish over a stove that it may gratinez. Serve it with tlie clarified broth in another *^'gakboiie au JIamcau de Chantilly.*— Put three pounds of veal cutlets, a knuckle of veal, two partridges, and two pigeons, into a saucepan, tie these up, that they may not fall to pieces in cook- ing ; fill the saucepan with good stock, or co7isomme, and add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, leek.s, and two cloves. When the meat is sufficiently done, take it from the saucepan, and put it into a deep dish ; lay round it the vegetables, taking care to lay each sort separately; then take forty or fifty carrots, cut them into round pieces, about two inches long; keep them all of the same size: cut as many turnips, otiions, and leeks in a similar manner, boil these also in broth, but not that in which the meat was cook- ed; add sugar sufficient to correct any acidity; the vegetables should be tho- roughly done, but not so much so tis to break; place them round the meat, and then serve it with the broth of the meat, strained in another tureen; no bread is required with this garbure. Gaubure d laPotignaG.*—Takeabout twenty or thirty large chesniits, and throw them into hot water to blanch them, in the same manner as almonds; when the skin is well cleared off, lay some slices of veal and bacon, two bay-leaves, two cloves, six carrots, as many onions, and a bunch of green celery leaves, into a stewpan; put the chesnuts on these; season them with salt and pepper; cover them with slices of bacon; moisten them with broth, and let them simmer for an hour; then if they are done, drain, and cut them in halves ; fill your dish with alternate layers of bread and chesnuts; strain the liquor they were done in over it. and gratinez it, and serve it. Garbure d laVilleroy.*—Take twenty carrots, twenty turnips, a dozen onions, half a dozen heads of celery, the same number of lettuces, a dozen leeks, and a handful or more of chervil; cut the roots into dice, and bruise the lettuces and chervil. Put three quarters of a pound of fresh butter into a pan, and fry first the carrots lightly, then put the turnips, ;ind fry them also lightly, add the leeks and onions ; when these are quite done, put in the lettuces and chervils, and stir the whole together : moisten them with a small quantity of broth, and boil them until sufficiently done, adding a piece of sugar about half thesize of an egg. Then put a layer of bread and vegetables on a dish, (beginning with the bread); strew coarse pepper between each layer, and when your dish is sufficiently full, pour in the liquor without skimming, and set it on the fire. I>et it stand till the gratm is formed, and then serve it. GARLIC Butter Pound halfGAR ( 261 ) GAT a dozen cloves of garlic; rub them through a silk sieve, with a_ wooden spoon ; put this into a rnortar with some butter, and beat it until llioroughly in- corporated ; then put this butter into any sauce you please. Garlic (Kssetice of).* — Take an earthen skillet, place it on the lire, and put into it a bottle of white wine, lialf a glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves of garlic, the same number of cloves, the quarter of a nutmeg, and two bay-leaves: when near boiling, reduce the fire, and let it stand on hot ashes for seven or eight hours ; strain it through a coarse sieve, and then filter it. Keep it in very closely corked bottles. A very small quantity of this essence is requisite to impart its flavour to a dish. Garlic Gravy.—Slice a pound and a half of veal, or beef; season it with pep- per and salt; put it into a stewpan, with two carrots split, and four cloves of gar- lic sliced, a quarter of a pound of sliced ham, and a large spoonful of water ; put the stewpan over a gentle fire, and watch when the meat begins to stick to the pan; when it does, turn it, and let it be very well browned, (but take care that it is not in the least burnt); then dredge itwith flour, and pour in aquartof broth, a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of cloves bruised, and slice in a lemon; set it on the fire again, then let it simmer gently for an hour and a half longer; then skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy, by pour- ing it through a napkin, straining and pressing it very hard. Garlic Pickled.—Pick the garlic very clean; put it over a brisk fire, in salt and water, and boil it up quick; drain and dry it: make a pickle of double dis- tilled vinegar and salt; pour this boiling hot on the garlic; repeat the same the next day. Garlic Sauce.—Take two cloves of gar- lic, and pound them with apiece of fresh butter, about the size of a nutmeg ; roll it through a double hair sieve, and stir it into half a pint of melted butter, or beef gravy, or make it with garlic vinegar. GARNITURE.*—Lay some cocks- combs, kidneys, and livers, into warm water, that all the blood may soak out; when they are clean, have ready some hot (but not boiling) water, into which throw the cocks-combs ; stir them about, and take them outone by one; lay them in a cloth with some salt; rub them well to remove the pellicle, then put them again into warm water. The kidneys, when cleansed, should be boiled in a Wane for half and hour; the livers must be blanched in water that simmers only, to prevent their becoming liard, though they should be firm. When all are cold, trim, and drain them for use. Garniture a, la Flamande. —Cut thirty carrots, and as many turnips, into pieces about two inches and a half long, and not quite one in diameter, which boil in a consomme, with a little sugar; take thirty lettuces, braised with cabbages, (see that article); drain, press, and trim them, then lay them round a dish alternately as follows : a lettuce, a car- rot, and a turnip, leaving the centre of the dish for such meat as you may think proper to use; have ready thirty glazed onions, to garnish your lettuces, &c. When the meat (or whatever you fill the middle of the dish with), is ready for table, pour over it a nivernaise, reduced <and mixed with a little reduced espag- nole. Garniture en Ragoiit.*—Put into a saucepan some cocks-combs and kidneys, fat livers, lamb sweet-breads, truflies, queiielles, mushrooms; pour over these sufficient espag/io/e travaillce ; or, if you wish your ragoflt white, put tlie yolks of three or four eggs into some velouic, and use that to dress the above articles, in- stead of the espagnole. GATEAU de Cornpiegne. * — Take three pounds of flour, two pounds of butter, an ounce and four drachms of yeast, an ounce of salt, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a glass of cream, twelve yolks and twelve whole eggs, and five or six spoonsful of whipped cream. With these ingredients proceed as fol- lows : sift the flour, of which put a fourth part on the slab, make a hole in the mid- dle, put into it a glass of warm water and the yeast; mix them together as lightly, and with as much dispatch as possible, adding more warm water if necessary ; when well worked up for some minutes, gather it together, (it ought to leave the slab and the hand freely); put it into a saucepan; cover it, and place it in a tolerably warm situation to rise. Take the rest of the flour,, lay it on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, in which put the salt, sugar, and cream ; stir these together well, and then put in the eggs, one at a lime, (break them into a basin, in case all should not be good); the eggs being put in, add by degrees the butter, stirring ihein well; then mix the flour, a little at a time, with the above, until the whole is formed into a smooth paste ; more eggs must be added if it be too stiff; work it up a little, and then add the leaven; work that in; and lastly, put in the whipped cream. The whole opera- tion being thus performed, have ready a cylindrical fluted mould, (about eight inches in diameter,aud nine in height);( 262 ) GAT GAT buttfir it by means of a sponge, being careful that it is done in all parts, other- wise the qdteaumW adhere to it; place the mould in it moderately warm place, but where there is a free current of air. When the gateau has risen so as to fill the mould, and the surface is a little inflated, it should be put into the oven instantly, if not, it falls and becomes heavy. The oven must be of a moderate heat, and kept closed while the gateau is baking; take it out in about an hour, and if it be flexible and light coloured, replace it for thirty or forty minutes; hut if, on the contrary, it is red, and firm to the touch, place a tin plate on the top, and put it in the oven till done; remove the mould with care, and the gateau is finished. If the mould does not come away quite so well as it ought, strike it gently with a spatula. When taken out, put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. This gateau is sometimes varied by the addition of six ounces of sugared anise, and the same quantity of dry currants. Gateau de Cmnpiegtie, with Angelica and Cherries.*—Three pounds of flour, twelve drachms of yeast, one ounce of salt, six of sugar, six of preserved angelica, the same of preserved cherries, the zestes of three cedrats, half a glass of brandy, three or four glasses of milk, twelve whole eggs, twelve yolks, and two pounds of butter. Cut the angelica into small pieces ; put it into a basin, with sugar on which the cedrats have been rubbed, the brandy and cherries well drained, and each cut in half. The other parts of the operation are exactly the same as g-afeaw de Coni- piegne. Gateau d la Frawfaise.—Take three pounds of flour, twel ve drachma of yeast, one ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, the zestes of four oranges, half a glass of rum, three quarter.s of a pound of dry currants, twelve eggs, the same number of yolks, three glasses of cream, and two pounds of butter. Grate the zestes of the oranges on a piece of sugar, and as it colours the su- gar, scrape oil' the surface lightly ; take six ounces of this sugar, crush it com- pletely, and put it into a pan. with the rum and the currants, (thorougnly wash- ed) ; having stirred it well, cover the pan, and set it aside. Then sift the flour, make your leaven with a fourth part of it, as usual, (see Gateau Parisienne); put the butter and eggs into a pan, and mix them the same as the conglaujjle. To this mixture put half the remaining flour; and when that is amalgamated, the cream, (a little at a time); then by de- grees the rest of the flour, the salt, the leaven, the currants, and rum, stirring well the whole time, that all the ingre- dients may be thoroughly incorporated; finish the same gateau de Coinpiegne, Gateau of Mille Feuillcs.* — '1 ake some pufl'-paste, and divide it into eight pieces, one of which must be double the size of the rest; roll the seven pieces to about the thickness of a half crown ; cut them all of an equal size; dorez, and place them on tins. Then take the eighth piece, roll it to double the thickness, and cut it to the size of the others; ornament one side of this layer, as it forms the top, and gloze it. Bake them, and when cold, take the first layer, and spread currant- jelly all over it; cover it with a second layer, on which spread apricot marma- lade ; and proceed thu®, Hsinga difl'erent preserve between each layer of puff- paste, until you have employed the whole. Garnish the upper piece with some of each preserve contained in the gateau: trim the edges, taking care to keep it quite round ; fix some small meringues to it, by means ot sugar boiled to casse ; place it on a napkin, and serve it. Chantilly cream of difl'erent colours may be substituted for the preserves. Gateau d la Parisienne.*—Take three pounds of flour, an ounce and a half of yeast, an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, ten whole eggs, as many yolks, two pounds of butter, four glasses of cream, a pound of filberts, three quarters of a pound of pistachio nuts, and a quar- ter of a pound of preserved orange-peel. Blanch the filberts, and roast them over a moderate fire, stirring them con- stantly till lightly coloured ; when done, take them off, and let them cool: as soon as they are cold, pound them, moistening them occasionally with cream; when re- duced to a smooth paste^ put them into a pan, stir the cream (a little at a time), into them; then strain them twice through a napkin, squeezing hard to extract all the milk, which put into a basin, and set aside. Then blanch half the pistachios : wash them in cold water; split each in half, and cut the orange- peel into pieces of the same length as the pistachio nuts, and about the eighth of an inch square. Divide the flour and make the leaven in the same manner as directed for Go- teau de Coinpiegne, except that milk is sulistituted f.)r water. Having done it, and set it aside to rise, take a pound and a half of the butter; work it up, put it into a pan, and add to it the remaining half pound, just dissolved ; stir them together well, and put in the eggs andGAT 263 ) GEE yolks, one by one, working them up con- stantly; then mix in successively half the flour, a glass of the filbert milk, and two handsful of flour ; make a hollow in the paste, into which put the salt, sugar, and another glass of the milk of filberts ; mix these together, and then add the remainder of the flour and milk of fil- berts, and the leaven; these being thoroughly incorporated, mix the orange peel and pistachios, and then pour the preparation into a mould of the same kind, and buttered like that for Gateau de Cotnpiegne. Whilst it is baking, blanch the remainder of the pistachios; divide each nut in half; dry them thoroughly in a napkin, and when the gateau, is taken from the mould, stick them cn the top and round the sides. Gateau de Pithiviers.*—Pound to a very smooth paste half a pound of fil- berts ; add to them six ounces of fine sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of bitter almonds, four yolks of eggs, and a little salt; these ingre- dients being well beaten together, put in four spoonsful of whipped cream. Then take some putt-paste, knead and roll it out perfectly, and divide it into two parts, one of which must be two-thirds larger than the other, which roll out of a sufficient size, to cut a round piece nine inches in diameter; add the cuttings of this to the_ remaining paste ; roll it out, and cut a circular piece of seven inches diameter. _ Moisten the edges of the smallest piece lightly, and pour on it the above preparation; spread it over the whole equally to within an inch of the edge; then cover it lightly with the other circular piece; press the paste together, that the preparation may not escape in baking. Flute the edge ; dorez the top, and trace on it any design you may thitik proper, with the point of a knife. Place it in a brisk oven, and when coloured, remove it nearer the opening, that the paste may not be too high- ly coloured. When it has been bak- ing three quarters of an hour, take it out and glaze it. These gateemx may be varied according to taste, by introducing difl’erent articles, such as butter, al- monds, dry currants, musradel raisins, crispednrange-flower8,tS:c.,&c., in proper quantities, into the above preparation. Gateau de Pithiviers Anglo-Fran- fais.*—Take eight ounces of pounded sweet almonds, four of beef marrow shred very fine, two of powder sugar, two of bitter macaroons, two of dry currants, two of the best raisins, stoned, half an ounce of crispedorange-flowers,a grain of salt, the yolks of four eggs, half a glass of Spanish wine, and half a nutmeg grated; put these ingredients into a saucepan, and stir them well. Prepare the putt-paste as above directed^ (gateau de pithiviers), adding to this a narrow raised edge; pour in the preparation, which being rather liquid, would run out but for this precaution ; cover, and bake it in the usual manner. To this may also be added other ingredients to vary its flavour, Gateau Royal.*—Three pounds of flour, twelve dramchs of yeast,an ounce of salt, six ounces of sugar, six drachms Of vanilla, aglass of maraschino, three quar- ters of a pound of muscadel raisins, two pounds of butter, twelve yolks, and twelve whole eggs, and some spoonsful of whipped cream. Stone the raisins, put tliem into a basin with the maraschino and vanilla, pounded with the sugar and strained, cover the basin very closely, and set it aside. Make the leaven as be- fore directed {gateau de Compieigne), Then put three parts of the butter into a pan, melt the fouith part and add to it, beat them to a cream, and, at intervals of two minutes, put in two whole eirgs and two yolks, until all are used ; to this add the other ingredients, and finish the gateau in the same manner as gateau de Compiegne. G15ESE, to Choose.—Be careful in choosing a goose, that the bi'l and feet are yellow, as it will be young ; when old the feet and bill are red. When they are Iresh the feet are pliable; if stale they are dry and stiff'. Green geese are in season from May or June, till they are three months old ; they should be scalded. A stubble goose is good till it is five or six months old, and should be picked dry. Geese {Legs of) a la Remoulade.*— Take the legs of one or more geese, and dre.ss them d la braize', then dip them in!o the fat in which they were cooked, then bread them ; sprinkle them over with a little good oil, and broil them of a fine brown: serve dry, with a separate sauce d la remoulade, made in the follow- ing manner;—Mix a little mustard in a saucepan, with salt and pepper, also capers, atichovies, parsley, leeks, and a clove of garlic, chopped up together very fine, and diluted with oil and vinegar. Gee.se {to Preserve).*—Take any num- ber of geese, and roast till they are about three parts done, being careful to pre- serve the fat that drops from them ; let them cool, and when cool cut each goose into fotir par's, taking off' the legs, and keeping the breasts and wings together ; place them very close, one upon tlie other, in an earthen pot, putting between each layer three or four bay-leaves andGEN ( 264 G FI E somftsalt; then melt the goose-grease which has been preserved, with a good nuantily of hog’s-lard, and pour it into the pot; there must be a sufficient quan- tity to cover tlie birds; tiventy-four hours afterwards close up the pot with parchment, and wlien the wtiole is quite cold, put it in a dry place to keepfor use. When you want to use them, take the pieces of goose out of the fat, and before using, wash them well in warm water. Geese to Truss.—The goose must be first well picked and stubbed, then cut off the pinions at the first joint, and the feet also. Make a slit in the bark of the neck, and take out the throat, cutoff the neck close to the back and the skin, but leave enough to turn over the hack ; make a slit between the vent and the rump, though which draw out the en- trails, then wipe it clean. Draw the legs up, keeping them close to the side, then put a skewer into the wing, through the middle of the leg, body, and the leg and wing on the other side; put another skewer through the small of the leg, which keep close to the sidesmen ; run it through, and do the same on the other side. Cut through the end of the vent, through which put the rump, to prevent the stuffing from falling out. GENOISES.*—Put into an earthen pan six ounces of powder-sugar, six whole eggs (as if for biscuits) a quarter of a pound of flour, the same of sweet almonds pounded, a little orange-flower water, asraall quantity of salt, and about an ounce of butter: mix these ingre- dients together well, l-utter a baking plate, and spread the preparation over it, to the thickness of a half-crown piece; put it into a brisk oven of a proper co- lour, and then cut your g-t'Kowes into such forms as you may fancy : put them into a stove to dry, and then serve them. When you have proceeded thus far, you may, if you think proper, ornament them, whirh is done in the following manner: do them .all over with a glace royaln of different colours according to your taste, and place them in the stove a minute or two to dry the glare ; when cold, garnish them with apple or currant jelly- Genotser Glitces d I’Ilaliennc.*—[lav- ing baked and cut tlie genoises. place them on a sheet of white paper. Clarify and then boil to souffia bait a pound of sugar; as soon as it reache.s that degree take ilie pan from the fire, and set the bottom of it in cold water, take up the sugar, and having whipped the whites of three eggs, mix them hy degrees with the sugar; cover thegcwoiiw with this glace, then ploce them in a stove for a qu.arter of an hour to dry. This glace may be tinged of various colours by adding to it the diflerent articles used for colouring sugar, almonds, &c. See those articles. Genoises, Paste for.*—Take a pound of flour, three quarters of a pound of sugar, and half a pound of butter; rub the rinds of two or three lemons upon a part of the sugar, crush it with the roll- ing pin, and then roll it to a very fine powder ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, and put into it a little salt, four yolks and four whole eggs, the butter and sugar; yvork them together well, and hav- ing made your paste, roll it out, and cut it into bands, which roll the size of your little finger ; cut them of equal lengths, and form them into S’s or horse-shoes; slit the sides and ends, lay tliem on but- tered tins, dnrez, and bake them in an oven, rather hotter than for baking bis- cuits. Ge.noises Small.*—TaVe some almond paste, and having worked ic up well, add to it a little gum-dragon, and a little starch, both in powder. Sprinkle a sheet of paper with powder-sugacj lay the almond paste over it, and sprinkle that also with sifted sugar instead of flour; then take a small round paste-cutter, and cut as many pieces from the paste as you may require ; then cut an equal number of strips, each long enough to sur- round the tartlet, and about half an inch wide; fix these bands to the tartlets with the white of egg. Putalaj'erof the al- mond-paste on a table-dish, add a rim to it, leaving the edge either plain or notch- ed, as you please ; place on this layer M many genoises (prepared as above) as it will contain, and then put them in a stove or oven to dry. When wanted for table, fill them according to your taste, with three or four sorts of preserves. GHERKINS.*—Dutch ghcikina are esteemed the best sort; when hoiled, they are used in garnishing salads, and likewise to make ragouts ; they are done in the following manner; boil them a moment in w.ater to take off the strength of the vinegar; then put them into a good sauce or ragout, not allowing them to boil again; serve with any dish you think proper. Gherkins Picklrd. * — Choose the grcene.st gherkins, and having cut offthe tails and heads, ruh them to remove the down-; wash, dry, and lay them in a jar; pour over a sufficient quantity of the best vinegar to cover the gherkins, and let them stand ; after three (lays, dr.aw ell the vinegar, and bail it; when the quan- tity is a little lessened, throw in the gher- kins, and boil them together; then pour the whole into the jar again. In about■JIB ( 265 ) G I M five or siK days take them out, and boil again, adding garlic, tarragon, and salt; put them into the jar, which must not be covered until the vinegar is perfectly cold. Gherkins Pickled. * — Choose your gherkins as above, very green and straight, brush, and place a layer in a pan, sprinkle them witli fine salt, then another layer of gherkins, which sprinkle with salt also, and continue this operation until you have used nearly a bushel of gherkins, leave'them in the salt for twenty-four hours, which will draw all the water from them; at the end of that time drain and place them in a jar, with a handful of allspice, the same of tarragon, a little balm, ten shalots, six cloves of gar- lic, two or three long peppers, twenty cloves, a lemon cut in quarters, and two small handsful of salt. Boil two gallons of the best vinegar, pour it over the gher- kins, and let them stand till the next day, when boil the vinegar a second time, and pour it on again; the following day boil the vinegar for the third and last time, pour it over the gherkins, and when quite cold, cover the jar with a wet parchment. Gherkins Preserwetf fVet.—Let your gherkins be clear and free from all spots, put them into salt and water, let them stand two or three days, then take them out, and drain them well; put them in another pan of water, scald them, put them in a tub, and let them stand all night; then drain the water from tliem ; put them in a pan of water, and to every two quarts of water, put half a pint of syrup; put them in, and let them boil over a slow fire five minutes; put them in the tub again, and let them stand till next day; then boil them again, drain that syrup from them, and have a clean pan, with the syrup of a proper thick- ness; let it boil, put the gherkins into it, and let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour; then put them into a flat brown pan, and cover them; let them stand two days, then drain the syrup from them; boil the syrup one minute, and pour it over them ; the next day boil them and the syrup together three or four minutes, and repeat the same lor five days ; then put them into pots, and cover them up. Gherkins,o/.—Cut the large ones into quarters, and let the small ones remain ivliole; soak them some time, to take the vinegar out, then warm tliem in a good strong cullis without boiling; serve them ns a ragoflt, to serve with whatever dish you think proper. GIBLET Pie.—Well scald and wash your giblets, put them to stew like mut- ton cuiltts, but longer, till they are very tender. You may either make a puIT- paste or short paste to bake them in; when you lay them in the dish, add the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, pepper, salt, and the gravy of the giblets ; lorm a star of leaves on the top of the pie, egg it, and bake it. If you wish it to be par- ticularly good, reduce some consomme with a little Madeira wine, and pour it into the pie. The giblets proper to make the pie with, are the bead, neck, pinions, heart, gizzard, feet, and liver. GicLETPie.—Very nicely clean agoose or duck’s giblets; stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bundle of sweet herbs, till nearly done ; let them grow cold ; tlien, if there is not a sufficient quantity to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or mutton steak, at the bottom. Put the liquor of the giblets also into the dish, and bake it; when the pie is baked, pour iu a large tea-cupful of cream. You may add, if you please, sliced potatoes,and bake them with the pie. Giblet Soup.—Take three or four sets of goose or duck’s giblets; and stew them with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal, an ox-tail, or some shanks ol mut- ton ; with three onions, a large bundle of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pep- per, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzards (which must each be in four pieces) are quite tender; skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonsful of mushroom-powder, and an ounce of butter mixed wnth a dessert- spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few mi- nutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of siierry or Madeira, a large spoonful of catsup, and some cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Gibbets, Stewed-—Do them asdirected for giblet pie ; season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving,give them one boil, with a cup of cream and a bit of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Giblets Stewed- —Well scald and clean them ; cut off the bill, divide the head, skin the feet, stew them with wa- ter (a sufficient quantity for sauce), a sprig of thyme, some whole black pepper, and an onion; let them slew till very tender; strain the sauce; add a little catsup, and flour, provided the sauce is not loo thick. Serve with sippets, toast- ed and laid round the dish. GIMBLETTES Printnnieres.* — Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, cut them into very thin slips, and rub them with sugar and spinacli-juice to colour266 GIN GI N them green, then dry them. Take some c/j02<a> paste, and lay it on a tin in por- tions about lialf the'size of an egg ; dwez them, and having dipped the end of your nnger in the dorure^ make a liole in the middle of each chou; bake ihein, and when done, dip them, one by one, first in sugar boiled to cussi, and then in the almonds, which will adhere to them by means of the sugar. Arrange the gbn- ileltes on a dish according to your taste, and serve them. GINGERBREAD.—Ruh one pound of butter well into three pounds of flour; then add one ponml of iiowtier-siigar, one pound of treacle, and two ounces of ginger poundeil and sifted very fine ; one nutmeg gr.ated very fine ; then warm a quarter of a pint of cream, and mix all togetiier; you may add carr.aways and sweetmeats if you choose ; make it into a stiffpaste, and bake it in a slow oven. If cake or liisciiits are kept in jiaper or ■adrawer, tliey will actpiire a disagreeable taste. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist; or if to be crisp, laying them before tlie fire will make them so. GiNGERBRE.tD without Butlev.—Mix two pounds of treacle ; of orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, each fotir ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of coriander-seeds, one ounce of carraways, and oneounce of beaten ginger, in as m iicli paste as will make a soft paste; lay it in cakes or tin plates, and bake kin a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. GixGERBUEAnA'iifo.—Take four pounds of flour, half a pound of sifted sugar, an ounce of carrnway-secds, half an ounce of ginger pounded and silted, si.x ounces of fresh butter, and two ouncesof candied orange-peel cut into small slices; tlien take a pound of treacle or honey, atjd a gill of cream, make thens warm togetiier; mix it, with all the ingredients, into a paste, and let it lay six liours; then roll it out, make it into nuts, and bake them in a moderate oven. Ginger C(i/ci>s.—Put four pounds of flour upon the dresser; then take a cop- per saucepan, and break into it six eggs, and mix them well with aspnnn ; add one pint of cream to them, and heat tliein well; put the saucepan over the fire, stir till your mixture is warm; put two pounds of butter into the cream and eggs, and one pound of sugar, and keep stirring it over a very slow fne, just to melt all the butter; i)Ut in four ounces of nonnded ginger, and as soon as all the butter is melted, pour it all into the middle of the flour; mix it as well as you possibly can, till it becomes a fine paste; then roll it out with flour under it on your dresser; cut them to the size of the top of_a tea-cnp, a quarter of an inch in tliickness ; anti before you put them into the oven (whicli should (le very hot), place three papers under them. Ginger, Cunilied.—Put an ounce of ginger, grated fine, and a pound of sifted sugar into a preserving-pan with as much water as will dissolve it. Stir them well together over a slow fire, till the sugar begins to boil; then add another pound, stirring constantly till it thickens. Take it from the fire, drop iion earthen dishes, set them in a warm place to dry, and they will be hard and brittle and look while. Ginger Drops.—Put two ounces of candied orange, with a little sugar, into a mortar, and beat them to a paste ; then mix an ounce of powder of white ginger with a pound of loaf sugar. ^Vet the sugar with a little water, and boil all to- gether to a caiuly, and drop it on paper in moderate-sized drops. Ginger, Essence of.—Put three ounces ol fresh grated ginger, with one ounce of thin-cut lemon-peel, into a quart of brandy ; let itstapdfor ten days, shaking it up each day. Ginger ice Cream.—Take fourources of preserved ginger, pound it, and put it into a basin, with two gills of syrup, the juice of a lemon, and a pint of cream; then fi-eeze it. Ginger {Mock).—Take the largest cauliflowers you can procure, cut ofT all the flowers from the stalks, peel them, and throw them into strong spring w.ater and salt for three days; tlien drain them in a sieve pretty dry, and put them in ajar; boil white wine vinegar with cloves, mace, long pepper, and allspice, eacli half an ounce, forty blades of garlic, a stick of horse-radi.sli, cut in slices, a quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper, a quarter of a pound of yellow turmeric, and two ouncesof hay salt; pour it Ijoilingovcr the stalks, and cover it down close till the next (lay; then boil it again, and re- peat it twice more; and wiien it is cold, tie it down close. Ginge a, Preserved.—Take some green gitiger, and with a sharp knife pare it neatly; and as it is pared, throw' it into a pan of cold water to keep it while; when you have a sutficient quantity, boil it till tender, changing the water three times ; each time put it into cold water to take out the heat or spirit of the gin- ger; wlien tender, throw it into cold water; for seven jwiinds of ginger, clarifv eight pounds of refined sugar; when’cold, drain the ginger, and put it( 267 ) G L A GOD into an earthen 'v'th a Buflicient quantity of the sugar, cold, to cover it, and let it stand for a couple of days ; tlien pour the syrup from the ginger to the remainder of the sugar; boil it some time, and when cold, pour it on the gin- ger again, and set ithy for three days, at least. Then talce the syrup from the ginger, boil it, and put it hot oyer the ginger; proceed in this manner till you find the sugar has entered the ginger; boiling the syrup ami skimming oil' the scum that rises each time, until the syrup becomes rich as well as tiieginger. If the syrup is put on hot at first, or if too rich, the ginger will shrink and not take tl’e sugar. ^V'hen green ginger cannot be pro- cured, take large races of Jamaica gin- ger, boiled several times in water till lender, pared neatly, and proceed the same as above. Gi.NOEa Sprigs.—Take three eggs, one pound of sugar, a pound of flour, a little ginger, two spoonsful of rose-water; mix the whole into a paste, and cut into what form you please. Ginger Wine.—Put ten gallons of wa- ter into a boiler, witli lifteen pounds of lump-sugar, and the whites of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; mix all well together while cold; when the liquor boils, skim it well; put in half a poutid of common white ginger bruised, let it boil twenty minutes. Have in readi- ness the rind of seven lemons (the rind must be very tliin), and pour the liquor on them ; when cool, tun it with two spoonsful of yeast; to a quart of the li- quor put two ounces of isinglass-shavings, while warm, whisk it well three or four times, and pour all together into the barrel. Next day stop it up; in three weeks bottle it; and in three months it will be fit to olriiik. GLACE, Rmjale.*—Put the white of a new-laid egg into a pan, and mix with it a Buflicient quantity of white powder- sugar to make a ^/ace or icing, neither too dry nor loo liquid ; beat it well, and add a little lemon-juice to whiten it. By mixing with this ,g/ace, carmine, saffron, indigo, spinach-juice, &e.; it will be either rose-coloured, yellow, blue, green, &c. according to your taste. GLAZE.*—Take the remains of any liquor in which meat has been cooked, and strain it through a silk sieve until quite clear ; then put it into a saucepan and reduce it over a brisk fire : as soon as it is sulliciently done, that is, when it sticks to the spoon, put it into a smaller saucepan, and set it in the bain-marie; when wanted, add a small piece of fresh butler to it, to correct its saltuess. Glaze.* — Make a consomme with whatever remnants of fowls or meat that may he in the house ; strain it, and then put it on the fire with two or three whites , of eggs beaten to a snow ; stir till it boils, and then set on the side of the stove, and place fire on the saucepan lid; as soon as theeggs are set, pass the glaze through a wet cloth; reduce this over a large fire, stirring it constantly vviik a wooden spoon to prevent its sticking ; then pour it into a pot for use. When wanted, put a small quantity of it into a saucepan, and make it hot over a slow fire ; ami, in this state, lay it gently over such articles as may require glazing, by means of a feather- Glaze, of Roots.*—Fill a saucepan three parts full of vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, and onions (have the largest quantity of the two latter); four or five cloves may also he added, and veal, if you think proper ; moisten the whole with stock or water, boil your ve- getables over a gentle fire, and proceed in the usual manner. GODARD.—This is the same as TJa- goiU Financiere, only it serves to garnish a sirloin of beef. You then add pigeons, gautiers, and larded sweetbreads; keep your sauce thin. GODIVEAU.* — Take fillet of veal (or breasts of fowl or game), fresh pork (or sausage-meat), beef-marrow or suet, equal quaiiti ties of each, veal s vveethread s, truffles, and mushrooms; season these articles with pepper, cloves, and nutmeg, all in powder; pound them all together, and put in (one at a lime) the yolks of eggs; pour in also a little water, pound- ing continually, until it is reduced to a sort of paste. Make a small ball of it, which boil in a little water to ascertain whether it he sufficiently salt; sweet herbs may he added when you are about to use it. The godiveuu is used as & farce for tonrtes ami hot pies. Godivbau {Hot) Pie of.* — Make a raised crust, about five inches high, and of any size you may think proper; on the bottom of which lay some godiveau, over this place some miislirooms cooked in butter, tiyo or tiiree artichoke-bottoms, cut into pieces, and tlieii lay some more godiveau foriried into small sausages. Cover the pie with the paste, dores ami hake it. When done, open it, and pour III any sauce which will correspond with the godiveau. Godiveau, Tourte of.* — Roll out some light paste, and cut it to the size of the dish you intend to use ; spread oyer it a small quantity of godiveau, on which place a few mushrooms fried liglitly and drained ; then some artichoke-bottoms,GOO each cut into four or six pieces; roll some gudiveau into balls of any size you think proper, and lay tliem on tlie above- mentioned articles, so as to form ailattisli dome; cover it with tlie IikIu paste, press the edges together, moisten ilie top, and lay an ornamental cover of puH'- paste over. GOOSE, Boiled.—Take a goose, singe it, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk; let it lie in this all night; then take It out, dry it well with a cloth ; cut into small pieces a large onion and some sage; put them into the goose, sew it up at tlie neck and vent, hang it up by the legs till tiie next day ; then put it into a pot of cold water, cover it close, and let it boil gently for an hour. Serve with onion sauce. Another method of boiling a goose, is by laying it in salt for a week ; then boil it for an hour. Serve with onion sauce, or cabbage boiled or stewed in batter. Goose en Dauhe.*—Prepare a goose in the usual way, lard it with lardoiis seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices; lay slices of bacon in a braizing-pan, the goose on them, with four carrots, four onions, three cloves, a bunch of parsley, scallions, a knuckle of veal, cut in pi eces ; and cover the whole with slices of bacon ; add a little salt, and three ladiesful of broth ; let it simmer for two hours or more, according to the age of the bird. When done, take it out, and drain it; strain the liquor and reiluce it to half; and having cleared oft'the fat and glazed the goose, pour the sauce over it. Gar- nish your dish with onions, cabbages, or turnips, glazed, and a tomata sauce. Goose en Dauhe.*—This dish is sel- dom prepared but with an old goose; which, when singed and trussed, is lard- ed with bacon seasoned with parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, sage, thyme, basil (all chopped small), pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; do up some roasted ches- nuts with some butter and a little sugar: stuff your goose with this, put the bird into a pan with slices of bacon under and over it, moisten it with broth or water and white wine ; put in also a knuckle of veal, cut in pieces; four carrots, four onions (one stuck with three cloves) a parsnip, a banquet garni, salt, pepper, and spices. Let it stand over a small fire three or four hours; then take out the goose, skim the liquor, strain, and reduce it, so that when cold it mav be quite a jelly, which clarify with 'the white of an egg, and dish the goose with thisjelly over and round it. Goose, Gravy o/.*—Lay in a large saucepan some slices of onion, two slices of bacon, three or four beef-steaks, a ( 268 ) GOO goose, and a duck, cut up; pour over tiicse, two quarts of boiling water, and close the saucepan as tight as possible. I.et it stand over a gentle fire for four or five hours, then open it, and put those pieces to the bottom which had previously lain at the top; add a little pepper and .'alt, close the vessel again, and set it on hot ashes for an hour; at the end of that time, have ready some .'tone jars, in which place the pieces of goose ; pour over them a part of the liquor from them, through a sieve, and as the meat imbibes it, in about two hours pour in the re- mainder. If you wish this gravy to keep for two or three months, cover them with their own dripping, an inch in thickness. Goose (Green) Pie.—Bone two young gi-een geese of a good size ; carefully pre- pared and nicely singed. Wash them clean, and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice; put one in- side the other; pressing them as closely together as possible, drawing the legs inwards. Put plenty of butter over them, and bake them, either with or without crust, as you please; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. Goose (Green) Boasted.—After a green goose has been well trussed and singed, put into the inside a good bit of butter, mixed w'ith pepper and salt; put it to roast, and baste it frequently with but- ter. When done, shake over it some flour and salt, when ready, take out the skewers, lay it on the dish with good gravy under it, and green sauce in a boat; it will take three quarters of an hour to roast. Goose {Legs and fFings of) a. la Bay- onne.*—Take the legs and wings from as many half-roasted fat geese as you may think proper; bone them, and when cold, rub them with salt and saltpetre, and lay them regularly in a pan with bay- leaves, thyme, and sage, between each layer; cover the pan close, and let them lay thus twenty-four hour,'; then take them out, dry, and finish cooking them over a slow fire, in their own fat. When sufticiently done, take them out, hut keep the fat warm. As soon as the legs and wings are quite cold, place them closely in a jar, leaving a space at the top of about three inches, which fill up with the warm fat. Do nut tie the jar over until the whole is quite cold. Goose (Legs and ffings oj) a la Bayonne.*— Take the legs and wings from five geese ; bone the latter with your hand, and rub them and the wings with salt, pounded and mixed with half an ounce of saltpetre ; having done this, place them in an earthen pan, and bay-GOO 269 ) GOO leaf, thyme, and basil, between each layer; cover them with a clotli, and let them stand thus, twenty-four hours; after which, take them out, drain and sim- mer them in water; drain them aKain. Take all the fat from the bodies of the geese, not excepting the inside fat, and prepare it in the same manner as hog’s lard; and when the legs and wings are perfectly tender, and cold, put them as close as possible; pour in the fat when about three parts cold, and let them stand together twenty hours, then cov-er the pots closely with paper, and set them by in a dry cool place. Goose Legs d la Lyonnaise.*—Take three or four hind q^uarters of geese, fry them lightly in their own fat; cut half a dozen large onions into rings, take a part of the fat in which you have fried the ■loose, and fry the onions; drain both fhem and the legs; dish them, with the onions laid on them, and serve with a good poivrade, or any other sauce you please. Goose d la Providence.,*—Prepare a goose in the usual way, and stutt' with the following farce: take twenty small pieces of streaked bacon (having soaked It well), twenty chipolata sausages, twenty large mushrooms, twenty truffles, thirty chesnuts, and the same number of poached quenelles, the size of the sausages (which, as well as the bacon, must be previously cooked) ; put half of this in the goose ; truss, and sew it'.up as usual, and then put it in a braising-pan, with some slices of veal, two slices of ham, two onions, two cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs, seasoned; cover the goose with bacon and a buttered paper; pour in a glass of Madeira wine, and some good consmnme. Let it slew gently over a slow fire for two hours; then take it off, strain the liquor, and reduce it to half, having removed all the fat; strain it a second time. Put the remainder of the truffles, bacon, &c., with the addition of some cockscombs and kidneys, into a little of the liquor, and heat them; then, having drained and dished your goose, lay the truffles, &c. round, and pour the sauce over it. Goose (Legs of) en Puree.*—Take half a dozen very plump goose legs, and having honed them, season them with salt and coarse pepper, and supply the places of the bones, with bacon cutsmall; then close the meat over, and tie them, taking care to shape them well. Put them into a stewpan, lined with sliced bacon ; cover them with the same ; put into the pan also three carrots, four onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, a little thyme, and a ladleful of broth; let the whole simmer for two hours, then take it out, drain and take off the thread ; dish them, and serve with a puree of lentils, green pease, onions, &c. Goo^'b (Legs of) A la Ilemoulade*— Take the legs of a goose, either roasted or d la duuhe; soak them in their own dripping; bread, and baste them lightly with oil; broil them to a nice colour, and serve them dry, with the following sauce in a boat; capers, anchovies, parsley, scallions, and garlic, all chopped very small, mustard, pepper, salt, vinegar, and oil. Goose (Legs of) au Verd-pt'c.*—Put as many legs of geese as will fill a dish into a saucepan, with a little lard and some small onions cover the saucepan quite close, and set it on the fire. When nearly done, take out the legs, and broil them a few minutes, to colour and dry them a little : in the mean while, fry a handful of parsley, (keep it as green as possible), lay it over a dish, and serve the legs on it. Goose, to Marinate.—Cut a goose up the back, bone it; make a stuffing with a few sage leaves, an onion or two, two apples, bread crumbs, pepper, salt, lemon-peel, nutmeg, yolk of egg; stuff it, sew it up the back, half roast it, or fry it; stew it with good gravy (covered closely), till it is tender; put in a little red wine; strain and skim the sauce ; add cayenne, catsup, a little flour, salt, (ifnecessary), a little lemon-juice; boil this up for a minute or two, then serve it over the goose. Goose d la Mode.—Take a large stub- ble goose; when it is picked, bone and slit it down the back ; take a fowl, and do it in the same manner ; take also a neat’s tongue, boil and blanch it; season the fowl with pepper and salt, and beaten mace, and roll it round the tongue, but first put some beef marrow over the tongue; then put the fowl into the goose, and sew it up ; before the fowl is put into the goose, roll some thin slicea of ham or bacon round it; put the goose into a small pot, with two quarts of heef gravy, and the bones of the goose and fowl; when it begins to boil, let it stew very gently for an hour ; then take up the gno-ie, skim all the fat from the gravy; strain it, and put in a glass of red wine, two spoonsful of catsup, a veal sweetbread, parboiled and cut into slices, truffles, morels, and mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flnur, and some yolks of eggs, boiled hard, with a little pepper and salt; put in the goose, cover it close; stew it half an hour longer, then take it up, put it in a dish, and serve the ragofit over it. Take care to skim oil'all the fat.( 270 ) GOO GOO Goose Pie {Conunon).—Uaka a raised crust, quarter the goose, well season it, lay it into the crust; half a pound of butter at the top, cut into pieces ; lay on the lid; hake it gently. Goose Pie {Rich).—Bone a goose and a lowl, season them very well; put force- meat into the fowl, and then put the fowl into the goose; put these into a raised crust, fill the corners with a little forcemeat; cut half a pound of butler into pieces, lay them on the top ; put on the cover; bake it well. Servecold. Goose au RagoUt.—Break the breast- bone of the goose, and make it quite flat; when it is skinned, dip it into boiling water; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace beat to powder; lard and flour it all over; take nearly a pound of beef suet, put it into a stewpan, and when melted and boiling hot, put in the goose ; when it is brown all over, add to it a quart of beef gravy, boiling hot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a few cloves, some whole pepper, a few small onions, and a bay-leaf; cover it closely, and let it stew gently; if it is a small goose, an hour will be sufficient; if a large one, it will take half an hour more. Make a ragoflt for it as follows ; cut some turnips, onions, and carrots, as for a harrico of mutton, all boiled enough, half a pint of rich beef gravy; put them all into a saucepan, with some pepper, salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew gently a quarter of an hour; take the goose out of the stewpan when done; drain it well from the liquor it was stewed in, put it into a dish, and serve the ragofit over it. Goose Roasted. — A stubble goose should be stuffed with sage and onions, chopped small, and mixed with pepper and salt; boil the sage and onion in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few bread crumbs with them when chopped; either will render them less stron;t. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off' the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, it will be spoiled by coming to table flattened. Serve it with good gravy and apple sauce, in boats. It will take about an hour and a half to roast. Goose Sinoked.—Take a large stubble goose: take oil'all the fatj dry it tho- roughly inside and out, with a cloth ; wash it all over with vinegar, and then rub itover with some common salt, salt- petre, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar; rub the salts well in, and let it lie a fortnight; then drain it well, sew it up in a cloth, and hang it in the chimney to dry. It should hang for a month. Sauce, onions, greens, &c. GOOSEBERRY Cakes.—Bveak the gooseberries, press out the juice, and strain it through a muslin; to one pint of juice a pound of sugar; boil up the juice; strew in the sugar: stir )t well; simmer it well till the sugar is melted; pour it into glasses: dry it in a stove till it will turn out, then dry the cakes on phites. Gooseberries {Green), Compote of.— Give them a little cut on one side to squeeze out the seeds, and put them in hot vvater to scald, till they rise to the top ; then put cold water to them, adding a little salt, to bring them to their na- tural green ; simmer them in clarified sugar, and let them remain in some timq to imbibe the sweet; take them outi and put them in the compotier; reduce the syrup to a good consistence, and pour it over the fruit. This is for green gooseberries; but if you make use of pre- served ones, warm them in their own syrup and a little water, and serve it either hot or cold. These will not keep long, particul.arly if they have been warmed again : if exposed to the air any time, they will lose their colour. Gooseberries (Ripe) Compote of.— Prepare some sugar to the eighth de- gree {petite plume); put the gooseberries into it to boil a moment, and let them cool before you skim them, if for present use ; if for keeping, refine the sugar still more, by boiling. Gooseberry Cream.—Boil one quart of gooseberries very quick, in as much water as will cover them, stir in about half an ounce of good butter; when they are soft, pulp tiiem through a sieve; sweeten the pulp while it is hot, with sugar, then beat it up wiih the yolks of four eggs; serve in a dish, cups, or glasses. Gooseberry Fool.— Put gooseberries into a stone jar, with some fine Lisbon sugar ; put the jar either in a stove, or in a saucepan of water, over the fire ; if in a stove, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done to pulp, press it through a colan- der ; have ready a sutficient quantity of I new milk, and a tea-cupful of r iw cream, I boiled together, or you may use an egg | instead of the cream; leave it to get | cold, then sweeten well with fine Lis- ) bon sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees It with it. , , i. Gooseberry Hops.—Take the largest . green walnut kind, and cut the bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end0 0 0 (27 whole; carefully pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread, fasten five or six of them together, by running the thread through the bottoms of them, lill they are the size of a hop. Put vine leaves at the bottom of a tin preserving-pan ; cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, then fill the pan with water. Stop it so close, that the steam may be prevented from escaping; set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, then take it off', and let it get cold, and so continue, till, on opening, while cold, the gooseberries are of a nice green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water; boil and skim it well; when half cold, put in the fruit; the next day give it one boil; do this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, which way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week; but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of gin- ger in boiling ; when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first syrup is found too sour, a little sugar may be added, and boiled in it, before the hops intended for drying are boiled for the last time. GoosEBEnav ./am.—Take what quan- tity you please of red, rough, ripe goose- berries ; take half their quantity of lump sugar;break them well,and boil them toge- ther for half an hour, or more if necessary. Put it into pots, and cover with paper. Gooseberries to Keep.— When the weather is dry, pick the gooseberries that are full grown, but not ripe; pick off'the tops and tails, and put them into open-mouthed bottles; gently cork them with quite new velvet corks; put them in the oven after the bread is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part; then take them out of the oven, and im- mediately beat the corks in tight, cut off' the tops, and rosin them closely down ; set them in a dry place, and if they are well secured from the air, they will keep the year round. If they are gathered in the damp, or the gooseberry skins are the leastcutin taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The hairy sort only are used for keeping, and they should be done be- fore the seeds become large. There are a variety of ways of keeping gooseberries, but this, we think, is one ot the best and most easy methods of preserving them. Gooseberry Marmulnde.—Boil them a moment, or only scald tliem in boiling water, sift them ihrongh a sieve ; reduce them over the fire to half, then mix them with sugar prepared to the ninth degree 1 ) GOO (d In grande plume), half a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. , Gooseberry J^as/e.—Upon two pounds of fruit put about a glass of water; boil them a little while, and sift them through a sieve with expression ; put it upon the fire again to reduce the juice to a soft paste consistence, stirring continually ; when it is come to a pretty thick sub- stance, add a pound of sugar prepared to the ninth degree {grandeplume), stir- ring continually with a wooden spoon, till it becomes of a pretty substantial thickness. This paste ought to be ap- plied directly to what purpose you pro- pose. This is mostly done in moulds of different shapes and sizes, made like hoops, without tops or bottoms; pul them upon a baking plate to dry in a stove of a moderate heat. Be careful to keep them in a dry place. Gooseberries, Clear Pasteof.—Bruise the gooseberries, then boil them a mo- ment, and sift them, first in a sieve and then in a coarse stamine; to half a pint of this juice mix one pound of sugar boiled to the twelfth degree (aw casse), mix it by degrees with the sugar, boil it a moment, take it off'the fire, skim it, and then give it two or three more boilings; the way to know when it is perfectly pre- pared to put into cups or glasses, is by taking some with a silver spoon, and if it falls out in turning over, and extends a little, like pretty firm jelly, it is done. Gooseberry Pie.— Line your dish with a nice puff-paste: lay in your gooseberries; sweeten itwell; put on the cover,and finish the same as all other pies. Gooseberries Preserved, — Put one quart of red currant juice to five pounds of loaf sugar ; set it on the fire, and when the sugar is dissolved, put in eiglit pounds of red, rough, ripe gooseberries ; let them boil half an hour, theii put them into an earthen pan, and leave them to stand for two days; then boil them again, till they look clear, put them into pots, and let them stand a week to dry a little at the top ; then cover them with brandy paper.s. Gooseberry Pudding(Balced).—ScM a pint of green gooseberries, then rub them through a sieve ; put to them half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, three Naples^ biscuits, four eggs well beaten;_ mix the whole well together, and let it bake half an hour. GoqsEBERRY Puddiug (Boiled).— pudding is made in the same manner as Apple pudding. Gooseberry Snwee.*—Take two hands- full of half ripe gooseberries, open them, and take out the seeds; blanch them in a little salt and water, and drain them.GR A 272 G R A Put two spoouRful of veloutv, and the same of butter sauce into a saucepan, mix them togeilier well, and heat them ; throw in the gooseberries, stir them well; season the sauce accerding to taste, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. This sauce is eaten with builed niackarel: fennel may be added or not, at pleasure. Gooseberry Syrup. — Bruise them, with one fourth part of cherries ; sift in a cloth, and mix the juice with sugar prepared to the ninth degree (d tugrimde plume), one pound to half a pint ol juice; simmer together till the sugar is au perle. Gooseberry Tart.—You may use them either whole, or make a mar- malade of them, with a good syrup; the last way is considered the best method, as by this means you can judge easily bow sweet they are, and ought to be ; if made of marmalade, the seeds should be taken out. Gooseberries in an Open Tart, with or without Cream.—Pick and scald some young gooseberries, then, with short paste, make a tart of them the same as you would any other, and serve it cold; or it may be done thus : when the tart is cold, take oil'the top crust, and cut it in three corner shapes ; beat up nearly a pint of thick cream, and when beaten up, mix it in a little powder-sugar ; then spread it nicely over the gooseberries, and garnish it round with crust. Gooseberry Trifle.—Scald a sufficient quantity of gooseberries, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of a dish, and sweeten it with sugar according to taste. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of an egg; give it a scald over the lire, stirring all the time ; do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and leave it to get cold; lay it over the gooseberries with a spoon, and then put on it a whip, which sliould be made the day before, as for any other trifle. Gooseberry Vinegar.—Brxiise some gooseberries that are quite ripe, and to three quarts of water put one quart of gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring them fre- quently; then strain them through a liair bag, and to every gallon of the liijuor add one pound of coarse sugar; stir it well togetlier; put it into a barrel and a toast and yeast; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, and let itstaud nine or ten months. 'I’he greater quantity of sugar and fruit, the stronger the vine- **'^GRAPES, Compote o/.*—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of sugar with half a glass of water, till it is reduced to a strong syrup; skim, and then put into it a pound of grapes, picked from the stalk", and the seeds taken out; give them a hoil two or three times, and then place them in a dessert dish : if there is any scum upon them, carefully wipe it on with white paper- Grapes Dried.*—T&Vt some fine mus- cadine grapes; place them on hurdles, and put them into the oven, turning them, carefully, frequently; when the grapes are quite dry, put them into a deal box. bermetically closed, lightly covering them with brown sugar and bay-leaves. Grapes, Dried in Bunches. — Take some preserved grapes. Hash them with warm water, put them on sieves, and into a hotstove, keep turning them every day, changing the sieve ; .'.when they are thoroughly liried^ijut theni into boxes. Grape Ice. — Take ripe grapes, pick them from theirstalks,p.xsa them through a sieve ; mix some sugar with the juice oftfour lemons squeezed upon it; pass the whole together a second time through a sieve, then freeze it. Grape Take out the stones, then maRh the grapes with your hands, (they must be ripe) then squeeze them through a cloth to extract all the juice from them, and boil and finish the same as currant jelly. Use half a pound of su- gar to each pound of fruit. Grapes Pickled. — The grapes must be at their full growth, but not ripe, cut them in small bunches ; put them in a stone jar, with vine leaves between each layer of grapes, till Uiejar is full; then take as much spring-water as will cover the grapes and the leaves; .vs it heats put in as much salt as will make a brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg; you must use half bay-salt ajid half common- salt; when it boils, skim it; strain it through a flannel bag, and let it sUind to settle; by the time it is cold it will be quite settled; strain it a second time through a flannel-bag; then pour it into the jar. upon the grapes, which must be well covered; fill the jar with vine leaves; then lie it over with a double cloth, and set a plate upon it; let it stand for two days, then take olV the cloth, pour away the brine, and take out the letives and the grapes, and lay them between two cloths to dry; then Uke two quarts of vinegar, onequart ofspring- water, and one pound of coape sugar, boil it for a short time, and skim it very clean as it boils; let it stand till it is quite, cold ; wipe the jar very clean and dry, lay some fresh vine leaves .H the bottom, between every bunch of grapes, and on the top ; then pour and strain the pickle on the grapes; fill the jar; let theG R A ( 273 ) G R A pickle be above the grapes; tie up a thin piece of board in a flannel, lay it on the grapes to keep them under the pickle; tie them down with a bladder, and over that a leather. Always keep the grapes under the pickle. Grapes Preserved (m Clusters').—Take the large Gascoigne grapes belore they are too ripe, and prick every one: to every pound of grapes put a pound and a quarter of sugar; make a syrup of the verjuice, strained; when the sugar is quite clear, put the grapes (after they are strained into syrup) into a deep jar, cover them close, and set them in a pot of scalding water over the fire to boil; as soon as the grapes are tender, take them up, and boil the syrup a little more; when they are lialf cold, put them into broad glasses or straight jars ; lay one cluster over the other, cover them with brandy paper, and tie them up. Grapes {Bell) to Preserve in Jelly.— Take the long, large, bell grapes, pick off the stalks, stone them, and put them into boiling water; scald them tliorough- ly; take them from the fire, and cover them close to prevent the steam from escaping; then set them over a very gentle fire for two or three hours (but do not let them boil); takethem out, and put them into clarified sugar, more than will cover them, and give them a good boil; skim them : boil a little more sugar to a strong sovffle., take as much plum jelly as sugar, and give it a boil; then put the grapes to it; let them all boil to- gether, skim them well, and put them into pots or glasses. Grapes {Green) to Preserve.—Take the largest and best grapes before they are ripe, stone and scald them ; let them lay two days in the water they were scald- ed in, then drain them, and put them into a thin syrup; heat them over a slow fire; the next day turn the grapes into a pan, and heat them the day after; then drain them, put them into clarified sugar, give them a good boil, skim them, and set them by; the next day boil more sugar to souffle, put it to the grapes, give them all a good boil, skim them, and set them in a warm stove all night; the day alter, drain the grapes, and lay them out to dry, first dusting them very well. Grapes, Ratafia 0/.*—Take some fine muscadine grapes, pick them from the stalks; bruise and press them, so as to extract all their juice; then dissolve some sugar in the grape juice, adding to it brandy and cii'.namon; let the wliole infuse for a fortnight; then strain it through a filtering bag, and bottle it off The proper proportions are one pint of brandy, and ten ounces of sugar to one pint of grape juice. . , G RAPE Tart.— Make choice of the youngest grapes befoie the stone is form- ed ; pick and scald them the same as cur- rants or gooseberries, and finish the same as for all other tarts, only adding more sugar on account of their tartness. Grape (Vine.—Toone gallon of grapes put one gallon of water; bruise me grapes, let them stand a week without stirring ; then draw it off', and fine; put to a gallon of the wine three pounds of sugar ; and then put it in a vessel, but it must not be stopped till it has done hissing. Grapes {Muscadine) Conserve of.— Grain a pound of muscadine grapes, boil them a moment, and_sift them through a sieve; reduce the juice over the fire to a quarter part of what was sifted; put to it one pound of sugar prepared to the tiyelfth degree {au cassc) and let it boil a little ; then work it well together till it begins to grow wliite, warm the whole a moment then pour it into paper cases made for the purpose ; when it is cool, cut it into cakes of what size you please. Grapes {Muscadine) Paste of.— This paste is made the same as sour grapes, only that the grapes must not be bruised. Grapes {Muscadine) Clear Paste of,— Boil about a pound of,muscadine grapes, with a glass of water ; ■ boil also two com- mon baking apples to a marmalade ; til t them together first in a sieve, then in a linen cloth ; refine a pound of sugar to the twelfth degree {au cassc), and pour the liquid gently into it, constantly stirring it over a slow fire ; it is come to perfec- tion when it leaves the spoon, being turned over like a jelly, and must then be dried in a stove thesame as all others; these transparent pastes are cut out for use to what size and shape you please ; and so on of other kinds of fruit. Grapes {Sour or P'eiyuice) Compote of.* —Take the seeds from four pounds of sour grapes, throw them into cold water. Put some water on the fire, and as soon as It boils put in the grapes ; when they rise, take them from the fire, and cover them with a cloth till cold, then let them simmer over a slow fire, taking care that they do not boil ; when they are green drain them from the water. In the meantime clarify and boil two pounds of sugar to /me; then put in the grapes, and having |)oiled] them together a little while, take it off'and skim it; when cold, drain away the sugar, and put the fruit into a compotier ; boil the sugar once or twice more, skim, and pour it over the verjuice. (jRAPES {Sour) Conserve qf.—It is pre-( 274 ) GRA GR A served in tlie same manner as muscadine grapes, only it requires that a little more sugar is added to the same proportion of juices. Grapes (Sour) Jelli/.*— The jelly of sour grapes requires a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; it is made the same as ripe grape jelly; but a little sweet grape juice must be added, besides the sugar, to take off the great acidity. Grape. (Sour or Verjuice) Marmalade o/-*—Take the seeds fioin six pounds of unripe grapes, put them into a saucepan of water, over the lire ; as soon as tliey rise and swell take them from the fire, put in a little lemon-juice, cover, and let them stand on hot ashes till quite green; put them into a pan and let tliem cool; then rub them through a sieve, and put them again on the fire to dry; that done, put the fruit into a j>an, add to it five pounds of sugar, clarified and boiled to casse ; stir it in well, and then set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till it is of the proper consistence; then put it into pots. Observe, in making this and barberry marmalade, that it should be put into an earthen pan when left to cool. Grapes (,So/<r or Verjuice) Paste*— Take the proposed quantity of grapes, (take out the seeds), and swell them over the fire, stirring them constantly, add a few apples, pared and cut in pieces, till thoroughly dissolved, then passitthrougli a fine sieve into a preserving pan, set it on the fire; when dry, weigh it; take an equal weight of sugar, boil it to fort souffle ; put the marmalade to it, stir it incessantly till it quits the bottom of the pan easily, when it may be put in moulds or paper cases, and dried in the stove or oven, sprinkling it with fine sugar. Grapes (Sozcr) Paste of. — Grain the grapes, and thoroughly bruise them; then boil them a moment in a little wa- ter, the kettle being covered ; sift them, and put the juice upon the fire again, to bring it to a strong marmalade ; weigh as much sugar as the weight of the fruit, and refine it to the ninth degree (d la grande pluitie) m\\ the sugar and mar- malade well together over a very slow fire, give the paste what form you please, and dry it immediately. This paste is often made by mixing about hall the quantity of apples with the grapes, being peeled, cut into pieces, and reduced to marmalade ; sift it as usual, and dry It to a paste consistence ; then add as much weiglit of sugar (il la grande plume) as the paste, and finish the same as the other. ^ , . Grapes (Sot/r) Clear Paste cff.—Miyia spoonful of apple marmalade with a glass of water, and a glass of verjuice grape juice, which is almost ripe ; boil a pound of sugar to the twelfth degree (au easte); add the mixture to it slowly, stirring without boiling it, and put it into moulds to cool to a jelly orjam. Grapes (Sour) or VerjuicePreserued.* Take out all the seeds, and weigh the same number of pounds of sugar as you have pounds of grapes; put part of the grapes into a saucepan, and put part of Uie sugar powdered over them, continu- ing to put the sugar and grapes in layers till you have used the whole quantity; then put the grapes over a slow fire, lettitig them boil gently till they become green, then put them into pots. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice, Preserved Liquid.* — Take the seeds from two pounds of the sour grapes, make some water boil in a preserving pan, and then put in the grapes; give them one boil, keeping the fire moderate; cover, and let it stand five or six hours; then drain them. Boil two pounds of sugar to la petite plume, put in the grapes, let them boil up twice (covered), ,skim, and put them into pots. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Preserved Dry.*—Prepare two pounds of grapes as directed for the liquid preserved. Boil your sugar toperfe; put in the fruit, and boil them up several times. The next day drain off'the sugar, boil it to graiid perle, put the fruit in, boil them together (the pan covered), skim, and set it by tlie day following; drain the grapes, lay them on slates, sprinkle them with ••■ugar, and set them to dry in a stove or Oven. Grapes (Sour) or Verjuice Syrup.*— Take the seeds from three lajunds of sour ({rapes, pound the latter to obtain the juice, which strain through a jelly bag, as many times as you find nece.ssary, to have it very clear. Claiifyfonr (rounds of sugar, and Irait \l to fort sottffle, add to this a pint of the clear juice, and give them one boil together. When quite cold it may be Irottlcd. Grapes, (Sour) Tart of.—Stone the grapes, and scald them in boiling water; then thoroughly drain tliem, and simmer them a little in a rich syrup; when this is cold, put it into the p.a-ste without covering ; glaze the border of the tart with sugar. Grapes (SoKr), Preserved Tart of.— Use the same sort of moulds as you do for petitspiitcs, with the second best puff paste; fill them with the best preserved verjuice giapes, cover them with paste, and solder them, by wetting the bordeisG R A ( 275 ) G R A all round with water, and then pressing them together ; either glaze them with sugar, or serve in their natural cojour. GuaPES, (Sow,) or Verjuice, Vinegar 0/.—Crush the quantity of grapes you may require, before they are ripe, and leave them to ferment in an open vessel lor thirty days ; then obtain the juice liy means of a press ; let the liquor stand for a whole day to clarify. Filter it through blotting paper. It is preserved by having a layer of oil on the to,i. GRA'I’IN.*—Cut half a pound of fillet of veal into dice, ami put it into a stew- pan with a piece of butter, a few mush- rooms, parsley, shalots, chopped small, salt, pepper, and spices ; stir them up with a wooden spoon; and when the meat has been on the fire about a quarter of an hour, take the drain ofi'the butter, mince it very small, and put it into a mortar, with fifteen fowl or gaine livers, well washed, dried, and parboiled, all the flit- ter parts taken out, pound them, adding at times as much panada as you have meat; boil some calf’s udder, trim, and remove all the skin when cold, and put about a third of the quantity of meat, and pound them together, adding, one at a time, three yolks, and three wliole eggs ; season with salt, pepper, and spices; when well pounded, set it by in an earthen pan for use. GRAVIES, Directions rejecting.— The skirts of beef and the kidney, will make quite as good gravy as any other meat, if prepared in the same manner. The kidney of an ox, or the milt, makes excellent gravy, cut all to pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so-will the shank-end of mutton that has been dress- ed, if much gravy is not required. The shank-bones of mutton add greatly to the richness of gravy; but they should be first well soaked, and scoured clean. To obtain the flavour of French cookery, and to improve the taste of the gravies, tarragon should be used ; but it must not be added till a short time be- fore serving. gravy.*—Take three pounds of beef- steaks, two rabbits, (excepting the heads and breasts,]) a knuckle of veal, five car- rots, six onions, two cloves, two bay- leaves, a bunch of parsley ami scallions; put all these into a stewpan, with two ladlesful of broth, and set them over a good fire to reduce; then cover the stove, and let the stewpan stand over it, until the meat begins to give out the gravy, and adheres slightly; the jelly at the liottnm of the stewpan ought to be nearly black, and when that is the case, take it from the stove, and let it stand for ten minutes; then fill up the stewpan with good broth, or water, (if the latter, not so large a quantity); let this simmer for three hours; skim and season it well. If water is used instead of broth, tlie gravy must be strained before it is used. Gravy may also be made of any pieces of ready dressed meat, in the following manner: cot some onions into slices, lay them at the bottom of the stewpan, and tlie meat on them, with the same ingre- dients as above, and two or three glasses of water ; then proceed in the same man- ner as the other, nntil the bottom of the stewpan is nearly black, when add water according to the quantity of meat; put salt if necessary, and simmer the whole for two hours ; then strain it through a sieve. Gravy (Slice some beef thin- ly ; broil a part of it over a very clear cniick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not:to dress it; put that, with the raw, into a very nicely tinned stewpan, with a couple of onions, (one or two cloves, whole black pepper, berries of allspice, and a hunch of_ sweet herbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it two or three times; then cover it, and let it simmer till quite strong. Gravy d’EtouJ^ade.*—Take a leg of beef, and lard it with fat ham, a few cloves of garlic, and tl'.e same number of cloves; put hall a dozen large onions into a stew- pan, with the beef, six or eight allspice, a little iiut'nieg, half a bottle of Madeira wine, ami some consomme ; boil it over a large fire utitil reduced to a jelly ; then place your stewpan over a stove, and cover it with hot aslies ; leave it for some time, and when it is of a dark colour, without being either bitter or burnt, moisten it with broth ; add some veal or fowl trimmings; and when the whole is sufficiently done, strain it through a cloth, set it on the edge of the stove, take off the fat, add two or three ladleslul of espagwde to it, and reduce it to the proper consistence. Gravy/or a Fowl, when there is no Meat to 'make it of.—Nicely wash the feet ola fowl, and cut them, and the neck, into small pieces; simmer them with a little browned bread, a slice of onion, a bit of liarsley, and thyme; some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quar- ter of a pint of water, simmer them ttll they are reduced to half. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and hiitler, and add a tcaspooiiful of mushroom catsup. Gravy tci/hout Meat.—Take a basin, LG.R E ( 276 G R E and put into it a glass of table-beer, a glass of water, some peppei-, salt, lemon- peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut pickle, or musliroom catsup; cut an onion in slices, flour, and try it in apiece of butter until it is brown ; then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer it, covered, for twenty minutes. Strain it off lor use, and when it is cold, take off the fat. Gravy ^o maA:e Mutton eat like P'eni- «07t.-^Take a stale woodcock or snipe, and cut it to pieces, (first cut out the bag from the entrails), and simmer it with as much • unseasoned meat-giavy as you want. Strain it, and serve in the dish witli your meat. Gravv, Petits Pates of.*—Roll some puff-paste to a proper thickness, and cut it into round pieces with a circular paste- cutter ; lay half their number in small moulds or tins, and put on each a ball of godiveau, proportioned to the size of the petits pates, cover them with the remain- ing pieces, dorez, and bake them. When done, open them, cut the godiveau\w\.o pieces, and ponr into each some good gravy, in which are mushrooms cut in dice ; this however must not be done un- til the petits pales are to be sent to table. Gravy Roast some onions and parsnips on hot ashes, clean, and then slice them into a stewpan ; and rvhen they give out yellowish brown juice, moisten them with a glass of clear vege- table broth, and boil them with a little salt, an onion, and a clove, for a quarter of an hour; then rub it through cloth or a sieve, and set it by for use. Gravy Soup.—Take a leg of beef, and well wash and soak .it; break the bone, ond put it into a stewpan with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced, and fried to a nice brown, taking great care that they are not burnt, two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty of black pepper. Stew till tlie soup is ns rich as you wish it to be ; then take out the meat; when it is cold take off the fat, heat the soup with vermicelli, and tlic nicest part of a head of celery boiled, and cut to pieces, cayenne, and a little salt; carrot may be added, with turnips, cut into small pieces, and boiled with spinach and endive; or, the herbs with- out the vermicelli, or vermicelli only; add also a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom catsup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. GREEN GAGES in 7irn«f/.v.—Take some preserved green-gages, and drain all the syrup from them ; put them into a jar, and to every quart of brandy put five ounces of sugar; when the sugar is melted, pour it over the gages; then cover tliem very close with bladder and leather, and keep the jar hlled with brandy. Green-gages to Candy.—When finish- ed in the syrup, (see green-gages to pre- serve,'I put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take ofT the syrup that hangs about it; then put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more on the sieve. Have ready some sifted double-refined sugar, sift this all over every part of the f] uit, till it is perfectly white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves ii; a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully. Green-GAGES, Compote of. — Take green-gages, prick them witli a pin, and set them on the fire in a pan of cold water, till they are a little softened; then take them off, and let them cool in the same water; when that is done, take the highest degree of clarified stigar, put your green-gages into it, and set them again on a very slow fire, to make tlieia * throw off their water and turn green; during this second operation, you must cover your pan with a tin plate, that the steam may not esc.npe ; after which, take them out, and dress them in your dishes. Green-gages Dried.—Take preserved green-gages, put them over the fire to warm, drain all the syrup from them, put them on sieves, and into the stove; change them every day, and turn them, or they will stick, let them remain in the stove for three days, then put them into papered boxes, with a sheet of paper be- tween each layer of the fruit. Green-gage Jam.—Rub ripe green- gages through a large hair sieve, and put them into a preserving pan; ihen. to a pound of pulp, add a pound of silted sugar; after which boil to a proper thickness, skim it clean, and put it into small pots. Green-gages to Preserve.—You must choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split without paring them, and having previously weighed an equal quantity of sugar, strew a part of it over tliem; blanch the kernels witli a small sharp knife; next day, pour the syiup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, very gently, for six or eight minutes; skim, and add the plums and kernels, Miiiimer till clear, taking off any scum that rises; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels upon it.G U R ( 277 ) GUM Gbeen-oaoes, Presetted fVet.—\om' gieen-gages slioiild be perlectly sound, prick ibein seven times or more about the stalks; put them into cold water, otlierwise they will turn black; scald them, and have another preserving pan with boiling syrup ; strain the ivater Irom the gi'een-gages, and put them into a deep earthen pan ; place them regularly, and pour the boiling syrup over them ; then let them stand till the next day, then drain all the syrup from them ; boil it again, and put it over them : repeat so for seven or eight days, then take another flat earthen pan, drain the syrup from them, place the green-gages in this pan ; boil some fresh syrup for half an hour, and pour it over them, cover them up until they are wanted for use; or you may put them into pots. Gbeen SflMce,—Mix together a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine,and some scalded gooseberries ; add sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up. GROUSE Roasted. — Grouse should have their heads twisted under the wing. They must be roasted like fowls, but not be over done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread sauce. The sauce for wild-fowl may be used instead of common gravy. GRUEL.—Wash two ounces of fresh grits in warm water several times, and boil it in a quart of water, till the liquid is reduced to about a pint; then strain it through a cloth, and add a spoonful of white wine, and a little sugar; boil it a moment before using. Gruel {Water).—Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal, with two spoonsful of water, and put it into a pint of water boiling on the tire: stir it well, and boil it quick ; taking care that it does not boil over; in a quarter of an hour strain it oil'; .md if you choose, add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Another way.—Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees, into one pint of water, and when it is stirred quite smooth, boil it. GUDGEONS to choose.—Gudgeons are chosen by the same rules as other fish ; they are caught in running streams, and come in about Midsummer, and re- main in season five or six months; you may dress them in the same manner as .smelts. Gudgeons.*—This fish is most com- monly fried; scale, empty, and wipe them clean, without washing them. Hour them, and put them into a good boiling friture of lard or butter. Gudgeons au Conrt-houillon.*—Emp- ty, and wash your fish, then boil them in a court-louillon.! of equal quantities of wine, and maigre broth: add salt, pep- per, and a few artichoke bottoms ; when done, reduce the liquor, and serve them hot. Gudgeons Stewed.*—Scale, empty, and wipe the gudgeons clean, without washing them ; then take the dish upon which you serve, and put into it some butter, with parsley, green onions, mush- rooms, a couple of shalots, thyme, a bay- leaf, and basil, all cut fine ; add salt and pepper; place the gudgeons on this, sea- soning them over and under, and moist- ening the whole with a glass of red wine ; cover the dish, and set it over a brisk fire, till the sauce is almost consumed ; they will not require more than a quarter of an hour to cook. You may dress smelts in the same manner, but they must neither be scaled or emptied, but only wiped elean. GUM Paste.—Put a pound of gum- dragon in a basin, with warm water enough to cover one inch above the gum; set this in a warm closet for four and twenty hours; have a new tammy ready laid over a dish; spread it on it, and squeeze through as much as you can at first; then open the tammy, spread the gum out again, and then squeeze it; re- peat this till the whole is through ; then lay it on the slab, v/ork it well with your hand, put in nearly all the juice of one lemon, and a pound of the best double refined powder-sugar, by degrees, as you work it; but before you have put in the whole of the sugar, begin to add some of the best starch powder; blend them thoroughly together, till the paste begins to take an impression ; then roll it in a cloth, and let it stand in a damp place for a week or ten days, (it is the better for keeping), work it with powder, and it will cut and mould lo any shape you please, and when you want it to harden, set it in a dry place ; if you wish to colour it, to make it red, use cochineal or car- mine ; for blue or violet colour, use in- digo; for yellow, saflion; for green, tlie juice of beet-leaves, scalded over the fke thick part mix with the paste. When you put in colours, be careful to blend them well, and be particular that the colour is good. GURNETS fo Broil.—Having cut off their heads, dip them in melted butter, with salt, and broil them, but not over too fierce a fire. Serve them either with plain anchovy sauce, or a sauce made as follows; put some fresh butter, a little flour, and a leek, into a saucepan, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, moisten with vinegar and water; add a couple of an- B BHAG ( 278 ) H A M chovief*, keep it on the fire, shaking con- stantly till the fish are done, dish them, and pour the sauce over. H. HADDOCKS. — Are chosen by the same rules as cod, and are in season during July, August, and September. Haddocks are plain boiled in the same manner as cod, or broiled like whitings ; both are served with anchovy sauce; either way they are good with a stuffing inside. The dried haddock sliould be soaked a short time in warm w’ater, then laid on a gridiron, ever a very clear fire, and slightly broiled ; send them to table in a napkin, and eat them with cold butter. Hapdocks Boiled.— Fill a fish kettle with cold spring water, to which add plenty of salt; put the haddocks into this, over the fire; as soon as they begin to boil, salt them well, and set them by the fire to simmer ; when done, drain them thoroughly from the water, dish them, and serve with Dutch sauce. Haddocks Broiled.*—Take the skins from the number of haddocks you intend to dress ; and toss up the fish in some egg, beaten with pepper and salt; take them out, and bread them ; then, having dipped them in clarified butter, bread them a second time; broil the haddocks to a nice colour, over a moderate fire ; be sure both sides are done equally. Serve them over a good Italienne sauce. Haddock Dried.—Takethe eyes,gills, and entrails, from the_ fish, also any blood which may settle in them. Wipe them perfectly dry, and salt them; let them lay twenty-four hours, and then run a string through the eyes, and hang them in a dry place. HAGGIS.-^Take the heart and lights of n sheep, blanch and mince them ; then a pound of beef-stiet (chopped fine), the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream, a little mace, nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves, (all pounded), half a pint of sw'eetwine, a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped, asiifficient quantity of flour to make it of a proper consistence, a little salt, tlie yolks of three eggs, and some sheep’s chitterjings, well cleaned and cut into slips. Mix these together ; have ready cleaned a sheep's bag. put in the above, tie it tight, and boil it three houi-s. Hagois Sc'IcIi. — Take the liver and lights of a sheep, boil them, the latter partly only, but the former till it is firm ; grate hall of it, and mince the lights, a piece of beef, some suet, and onions, mix these ingredients with dried flour, or meal, salt, and pounded spice; make some broth, with a little beef and the water in which the liver, &c. were boiled, and put it with the rest of the materials into a well cleaned sheep’s bag ; tie it up tight, and boil it. HAM {Directions for choosing).— In choosing a ham, run a knife into it at the knuckle; if it comes out clean and smells sweet, the ham is good; but if, on the con- trary, the blade of the knife is smeared and smells rank, it is not good. Hams (Howto Dress).—If the ham has hung for a length of time, put into water for a night; and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or damp stones sprinkled with water, two or,three days, to mellow, covering it tvith a heavy tub, to keep any vermin from it; wash well, and put it into a boiler with plenty of water; let it simmer, four, five or six hours, according to its size ; when done enough, if before the time of serving, cover it with a clean cloth doubled, and keep the dish hot over boiling water ; take oflf the skin, and strew it all over with bread raspings; garnish with car- rot; preserve the skin as whole as pos- sible. keep over the ham when cold, which will prevent its drying. Ham to Boil.—Soak the. ham, according to its age, for twelve or twenty-four hrurs. Put it into a Isrge saucepan full of cold water, and, if a small one, let it simmer for two hours, and then boil an hour and a half; when done, pull ofl'the skin, rnb it over with yolk of eg-. ;>trew bread- crumbs over, and brown it before the fire, erwith a salamander. Ham d la Braise.—Having taken the rind from a well-flavoured ham, soak it in cold water, tie it into a proper shape ; t.nke thus of ham and beef, brat and sea- son them with spice and sweet herl>s, shred small, lay them in a saucepan, with onions, carrots, and parsnips, sliced, parsley and scallicns; put the ham on this, the fat side uppermost,cover it with slices of bacon, beef, root,s and hei hs. as under; put on the lid. close it tightly, and let it stand for twelve hours, with fire above and below. S^t it by till cold, untie,and strew bread-crumhs on it. pats a salamander over to brown it. If it he served hot, pour on it the fol- lowing ragoftt; toss up veal sweet-breads, livers of fowl, cock's-combs. mushrooms, and truflles.in a little melted bacon ; then put .a little gravy, and simmer them for lialf an hour; take ofT the fat, and add veal and luiin cullis. Haji en Cingarat.*—Fry, or (if you like it better) stew some thin slices of ham, in tiieir own fat, over a slow lite; when done, toss up a little water, vine-( 279 ) HAM II A M gar, ami pepper, in the same pan ; pour this sauce on llie liaiii, and serve. Ham, Essnice (if.—Take three or four pounds of lean ham, cut it into pieces about an inch thick, and lay them in a atevvpan, witli slices of cai rots, pars- nips, and three or four onions ; let them sleiv till they stick to the pan, but take care they do not Inirn ; then by degrees pour in some good veal gravy, a few Iresh mushrooms cut in pieces, (or inushroom- poivder,) truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust of bread ; cover it close, .and simmer till pretty thick, then strain it off for u-e. Ham (zVauy-*—Take a deep saucepan, put into it a piece of fresh butter, seve- ral slices of ham, about six pieces of veal the size of a walnut, and two or three cirrots cut in small pieces; set tliese over a slow fire, and let them Bland till they give out their juices, and the ham and veal become crisp and stick; then put in a little stock, and let it boil; in an hour’s time add a glass of white wine, leave it a quarter of an hour, when it will be sufficiently done; take off every particle of fat; strain it into a pan, and set it by for use. Ham a la (iefec.* —Take a fiqe colour- ed, well-flavoured ham, trim it properly, cutting the large hone in the middle; take off the skin, and pare away great part of the fat; then soak it in cold water, for twelve hours, if a young ham, but double that time if an old one, chang- ing the water frequently; that period expired, wrap it in a napkin, and put it into a biaising-pan,or a large saucepan, full of water, with or without spices and herbs; let it boil pretty fast at first, then keep it boiling gently for five or six .hours; then push in a larding pin, and if it comes out easily, the ham is sufficiently done; let it stand till luke- warm, lay it in a deep disli, cover it with a board, on which place about fifteen ounds; vylien cold, take oil' the nap- in, trim it again carefully, and trace on the fat whatever ornament you may think pi-oper, cover it all over with jelly, put It into the oven, or pass a salamander over it, hot within eight or ten inches from it; dish it, and surround it with pieces of jelly, and place a rosette or palm-branch of it on the top of the ham. Ham la Green •—Rub your pork well with coininoii salt, and let it lay all night; make a pickle of brine as fol- lows: take two pounds of common salt, one pound of bay salt, two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of salt prunella, and one pound of brown sugar, pnunu them well, and boil them in five pints of water; when cold, put in the ham; let it lay on the rind side three days; then turn it every day for a fortnight; when it may he taken out, and hung up. Tills pickle is equally good for tongues, or raised beef. . Haji i/ou/.—Soak a fine ham in cold water for one or two days, according to its age ; tlien put it into a saucepan just big enough to hold it. with no more water than will cover it, and a pint of while wine ; let it boil, skimming it carefully, till done. When cold, take out the hock and tinder bones, and the skin ; pare away some of the fat, and trim it to an oval form as much as possible. Make a farce with the parings of the fat, some veal or game, and sweet herbs minced and pjunded. Take a pan tlie size you wi.sli to have your loaf, lay all over the inside a pretty firm paste, and tlien (hav- ing cut your ham iiuo tliin slices) place alternate layers of it and the farce in the pan, until it be quite full. Put a crust over the top, winch must unite with that in which the ham is; turn it over on :i baking plate, flour it, and put it into a very hot oven for an liour and a halt or two hours, according to its size. Serve it cold. Hams, to nta/ce.*—Make a brine of tlie following ingredients :—Put into your pan or barrel, sage, thyme, basil, bay- leaf, balm, juniper berries, salt and salt- petre, equal proportions of the best wine- lees and water ; the proportions of these ingredients must, of course, depend on the quantity of brine required. VVhen they have infused for some days, strain tlie liquor, press the herbs, thrown little water on the dregs to dissolve all the salt, press the herbs a second time, place your ham in the vessel, pour the brine over, and let it remain a month ; then take it out, drain and smoke it; when tlioroughly dry, mbit all over with equal quapnities of wine and vinegar, to prevent Ihe flies from touching it; be sUre to let it dry well. Ham in March-pane. — Tak.e eight pounds of march-pane paste, knead it up with one pound of loaf sugar to whiten it, (and the longer you work them together the whiter it becomes); cut it in two parts, one about five pounds weight, tlie other three; put tlie latter aside. Then take of cinnamon, cloves, and bole armenia, half an ounce each, pounded very fine, mix them with the largest portion, and add to it a suflicient quantity of red san- dal to give it the fine colour of boiled ham ; the whole being well mixed, work it up in the form of a Imm ; make several incisions in it with a knife, in which in- sert very thin pieces of the wliite paste, to represent veins of fat in the lean ; theii close tliesc places with your hands. Roll the white paste to about two or threeHAM 280 HAM inches thick, and havingf moistened the surface of your red paste witii water, co- ver it with the white paste in imitation of the fat, taking care to make it thinner towards the knuckle and sides (as in real ham) than at the higher parts. Then boil a quarter of a pound of chocolate in about a quarter of a pint of water, stir- ring constantly till it is tolerably thick, dip a hair pencil into it, and do the ham over with it several times, until it forms a kind of crust, like the rind ; this may be covered with crushed macaroons, to resemble the rasped bread with which a boiled ham is generaliy covered. The chocolate must be kept vvai m whilst the latter operation is being performed, as otherwise it will become quite hard ; the flavour is greatly improved by adding vanilla to the chocolate. Hare a la Manute.—Take a hare that has been kept some time, and cut it into pieces ; boil the liver, and put all toge- ther into a stewpan, with about an ounce of butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, shalots, mushrooms, and half a dove of garlic; cover it close, and turn it in eight or ten minutes; a quarter of an hour will cook it sulficiently: lay the meat in a dish, add a little broth and vinegar to the sauce, and when pretty thick, pour it on the hare. Ham ari Naturel.*—Take a fine large ham, trim it in the following manner: takeoff the rind, and every particle of yellow which may be on the fat, take nfl' also, the end bone, cut the knuckle, and soak the ham, and cook it as directed, (ham a la gelce). When sufficiently done,untie Ihenapkin, take out the bone, then tie it again, lay it in a deep dish and let it cool ; trim it, and do it over with raspings ; serve it on a napkin. Ham Omelet.*—Take a slice of boiled ham, mince it as small as possible, and mi.'c it with a dozen eggs beaten with a little veal gravy; fry it (keeping it of an equal thickness) in the usual man- ner. Haji Pie.—Bone a fine ham, and trim it properly, taking care to cut off all the yellow fat; soak it according to its age, and then biaise it on slices of beef, a pound of bacon (beaten in a mortar), the same quantity of lard and butter, plenty of sweet herbs, roots, and wliole pepper. When about three parts done, take it out, and let it cool; then make a thick raised crust, put the ham into it. with all the braise, except the beef anti herbs, a large glass of brandy ; bake it for an hour, and serve it cold. Ha.m Pie.*—Dress a fine ham as for la getee (see that article); make a farce as follows take a sons noix of veal, and mince it very small, with an equal quantity of bacon, and the trimmings of the hairi when cold (minced small also); season it with salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs, shred small; then take all the ingredients, and pound them toge- ther, adding occasionally, a small quan- tity of jelly. Take three pounds of paste for raised crust, of which form the bot- tom and sides of your pie, put it on two sheets of buttered paper ; lay wme of the farce at the bottom of your pie, cut the ham in half, lay one piece on the farce, season, and cover it with the farce; then put in the other piece, season that also, and fill up your pie with the remainder of the farce, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; moisten the. borders of the pie, and put on the top, fasten the edges toge- ther, decorate the crust, and add, if oulike, a false top of puft-paste; make a ole in the middle, dwez, and bake it in a hot oven for three or four hours; if, in the meanwhile, it is inclined to lake too high a colour, cover it with a wet paper. Hau PoUetl.—Take a pound of cold, boiled, lean ham, and pound it to fine paste, with a quarter of a pound of the fat. or some fresh butter ; season it to your taste, with mace, allspice, pepper, and nutmeg (all in powder). Press it into potting dishes, pour clArified butter over it, and keep it in acool place. Ham (Ragodt of).—Cut some thin slices of ham, and having beaten them well, lay them at the bottom of a stewpan ; place a dish over them, and set the saucepan on a stove till they begin to Slick; then put in a little flour, and keep the pan moving; moisten with a little veal gravy that has no s.alt in it, add pepper and sweet herbs, and simmer over a slack fire ; add veal and ham cuUis to thicken ; set it before the fire, basting it well till it is a clear brown. In the meanwhile, take the fat from the gravy, thicken it with the yolk of an egg, add to it half a dozen hard eggs chopped small, and some pickled cnciiinbers cut very thin; pour this sauce into a dish, place the ham in it, and serve. Ham Ilagodf, u'iih Street Sauce.*— Toss up a few slices of ham in a sauce- pan ; make a sauce of red wine, white pepper, a niacaixion, cinnamon, and su- gar, all pounded I put the ham to this, squeeze in the juice of an orange, and serve it up. Ham Roasted with Madeira.*—Take a fine Westphalia or Bayonne ham. pare and trim it of as round a form as possi- ble, take oH' the end lionc, and remove the rind from the knuckle; then lay the ham on a gridiron over the fire, till you can take it up with case ;soak it, if neces-B B3 II A M ( 2S1 ) sary, and put it in a pan, with slices of carrots and onions, tliyme, bay-leaf, and coriander; poor a bottle of Madeira or Xeres upon it, cover it witit a clean cloth, and close the pan as tinht ns possible, andletit remain twenty-fourhours ; then wrap the ham in very thick paper, fasten it with paste, so that it may be com- pletely enclosed, lie it on a spit, and put it to roast for three hours ; then make a small hole in the paper, and pour in, by means of a funnel, the Madeira wine, paste paper over the hole, and let it roast another liotir. When done, take oft'the paper carefully, so that none of the gravy may escape, mix it with some reduced espagnole, glaze the bam, and serve it. Ham Roll.—Make a farce with some ham fat, and sweet herbs, chopped very fine; cut several thin slices of ready boiled or roasted Wesiphalia ham ; have ready some French-roll dough, take a piece of it, flatten it with your hand to the size you want it, lay a slice of ham on it (so as to cover it), spread some farce over the liam, and on that a piece of dough flattened as before, then ham, farce, and dougli again, and so on alter- nately, till the roll is as large as you wish it to be j then cover the whole with dough, hake it in a moderate oven. Do not cut it till cold. Ham Sauce.—When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat that re- mains, from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the bone to a mash, with a rolling-pin ; put it into a saucepan, with t'liee spoonsful of gravy; set it over a slow fire, and keep stirring it all the time, to prevent its sticking to the bottom. When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy ; c>iver it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain oft' the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. Ham and Spinach.* — Take a ham dressed as directed au valurel., put it on a sheet of paper, and place it in a sauce- pan sufiiciently large for it to go in with ease, and simmer it for two hours with the following ingredients;—two carrots, two onions, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme and parsley (all shred very small, and pre- viously wai med up in butter), a hoitleof white wine, and a spoonful of cmsommc; when these are half done, strain tlie li- quor over your ham, cover the saucepan, put fire on the lid, and let it simmer as above mentioned. When done, glaze it several times lightly. Take some very green spinach, tossed up in butter, with IIA R salt, nutmeg, and inignonetle, twospoons- ful of reduced espagnole, and a httle of the ham liquor; lay the spinach thus prepared on a large dish, drain the ham, and slide it on the dish gently j P“^^ paper as usual round the knuckle, and S6rv6 it* llAin Toast.* — Cut some crumb of bread into thin slices; then take an equal number of thin slices of ham, beat them well with a rolling pin, and then soak them in warm water for about two hours; take tliem out, dry them well, and put them into a saucepan with a little bacon, a slice of veal, and half a glass of stock ; let them boil for half an hour, and then add half a glass of veal blond. Fry your bread to a nice colour in some lard ; lay it on a dish, and on each piece lay a slice of the ham ; pour the sauce over them. Take particular care to cut the ham as nearly as possible the size and shape of the bread. HaMj fVestphalia.*— Rub your ham well with four ounces of pounded salt- petre, and let it lay: the next day boil a quart of the strongest stale beer, with bay salt, common salt, and brown sugar, of each half a pound ; pour it, whilst hot, on the ham, rubbing it all over tho- roughly. Rub it in the same manner twice every day for a fortnight, turning it once a day. At the end of that time take out your ham, and hang it pretty high in the chimney, with a fire made of sawdust and horse litter (fresh every day), for three days and as many nights; after which, hang them over a baker’s oven, or in any other dry place where there is the smoke from a wood fire. Be sure you fill the hock-bone with salt. HAKE.—Tkis animal should be kept five or six days, or even a week, before it is dressed ; the flesh then becomes dark and soft; but when fresh killed, it is still' and pale. Of as old hat e the opening of the lip is wider than that of a young hare; the latter may likewise be distinguished by the ears being tender and pliable, and the claws smooth and sharp, whereas in an old one, the former are dry and tough, and the latter blunt. Hare.—As soon as the cook receives a hare, she should take out the liver, &c., wipe it well, put in a little pepper, and hang it up. When wanted for dressing, cut oft' the fotir legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back, and draw it over the hind legs ; leave the t:iil whole, then draw the skin over tlie back, and slip out the four legs; cut it from the neck and head ; skin the ears, and leave them on. Clean the vent. Cut the sinews under the liind legs ; being them forward; run a sliewer through one hindIIA n ( 282 ) H A 11 leg, the body, and another hind leg; do the same witli the fore legs ; lay the head rather back; put a skewer in at the mouth, through the back of the head and between the shoulders ; put in the stuf- fing, and tie it round with a string, jtassing it over tlie legs to keep them in their places: the hare is then ready for roasting. See Roasted Hare. Haue {to Boil a).—Takeja marrow-bone, with a good deal of beef on it, and a piece of bacon, and a hare; put some salt and water, then boil them ; when the hare is nearly done, take it out; bruise some pease, boil them in the broth; take out the bone of beef, put in the hare, and boil again till the pease are done, then strain, and put the puree aside ; lay the hare in a dish, pour the pur^e over it, and serve it. Haue d la Broche.*—Your hare being properly prepared for dressing, set it on a hot stove to make the meat rather firm, before you lard it: when you remove it from the stove, dip your hand in the blood, and pass it over the back and legs ; then lard it to the end of the legs, leav- ing about an inch between the loin and the leg : then roast it (an hour is suffi- cient), and serve it with the following sauce : mince the liver very small whilst raw, and give it a few turns in a little butter, with a few shalots, parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, a tea-spoonful of flour, one glass of white wine, and two of broth: stir this sauce till it boils, add salt ana pepper, then reduce it to nearly half; rub it lightly through a sieve into the tureen. Hare, Botidin of.* — To make this dish the fillets only must be used—take away all the nerves and sinews, and then pound the meal; rub it through a que- nelle sieye ; I'oll it up, and set it aside. proceed in the same manner with a calf’s udder; soak the crumb of a small loaf in broth, and when soft, squeeze out all the moisture, and pound the bread, and rub it through a quenelle sieve. Then take equal portions of these articles, and pound them together; then mix with them some dried sweet herbs in powder, a little spice, salt and pepper. Then according to the quantity of farce you have, put three or four yolks, and one white of egg, so as to make it easy to work up: flour the table, put the farce on it, and roll it up into the botidin, and poach it in boiling water, like the que- nelles. Dip it in butter, bread it, and about a quarter of an hour before serving, broil it over a moderate fire; pass n salamander over to colour it; serve it quite dry. It may also be served without poaching, in which case it must be glazed and laid on afumet of game. If you have not a calf’s udder to pound with it, fresh butter is a good substitute ; take care, however, to use double the quantity of it. Hare_ d la Bourgeoise.*—Skin, and cut a hare in pieces; lard them with large lardoiis, rolled in parsley, scallions, gar- lic, (all shred fine), and salt; stew them, with half a glass of brandy and two ounces of butter, over a slow fire: when nearly done, and the sauce partly con- sumed, pour in the blood, (having pre- served it for that purpose); keep it on the fire till this is quite hot, but not boiling ; then take out the hare, and lay the pieces on a dish so closely, that it may look like one ; let it stand till cold, and then serve. Hare Ca/ee in Jelly. — Bone a hare, take all the sinews fiom the meat, and then pound it with an equal quantity of beef; add mushiooms, shalots, (garlic, if you please), sweet herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, pickled cucumbers, and bacon, cut into dice, and two or three eggs; mix all this together. Line a mould with thin slices of bacon, put in the hare, &c.; cover it with bacon, and bake it in a moderate oven : when cold, turn it out, place it on a dish, and put over it ajelly made as follows: take a pound and a half of scrag of veal, a slice of ham, two or three cloves, sweet herbs, a carrot or two, shalots, two bay-leaves, an ounce of isinglass; stew these in some beef broth till reduced to a jelly ; add some lemon- juice ; strain first through a sieve, and then through a jelly-bag: when cold, pour it over the cake, and serve. Hare au C/ievreuil.* — Take a fine hare, skin, and cut off the head and shoulders; beat it flat, and carefully cut the skin from the back and most pro- minent parts of the rump, which places lard witli small pieces of fat bacon, pre- viously soaked in vinegar and water, with carrots, onions, parsley, bay-leaf, garlic, tvhole pepper, and salt; let the hare lay in this for two days, then spit it; baste it well while roasting. When done, place it on a dish, and set it in the oven while you glaze the larded parts: reduce two spoonsful of tarramn vine- gar, and live or six spoonsful of plain sauce; when it boils, mix in a little glaze, a piece of butter, and the juice of half a lemon; pour this sauce round the hare, and serve it. Harr en Civet.*—Make a rou.r. in which put rather more butter than usual; when about three parts done, put m some pieces of streaked bacon, give them a fewH A R ( 28.3 ) HAR turns, and then add the hare, cut in pieces; and when they have been m a little while, pour on them a bottle of white or red wine, or a glass of vinegar, some stock or water, a small quantity only of salt, (as the bacon ought to give it a little saltness), pepper, two bay- leaves, parsleys and scallions, and mush- rooms ; take care that your meat floats in the liquor ; set it over a large fire, that it may reduce quickly to three quar- ters of its original quantity. Have ready some small onions peeled, and lightly fried in a little butter; put them into the civet when nearly done._ In about twenty or five and twenty minutes take it off, and keep it warm in hot ashes, till it is wanted for table. Hare en Daule.*—Put a boned hare into a braising pan, with salt, pepper, carrots, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, equal quantities of broth and white wine, the bones of the hare, half a knuckle of veal, and thin slices of bacon, (having lined the pan previously with the same), braise it over a small fire for an hour and a half; then take it out, strain the liquor; reduce and serve it over the hare. This dish may also be served cold, with jelly. Hare a la St. Denis.* — Having skinned and otherwise prepared the hare, cut off the head ; season some iardons to lard the loins and legs, and lay it for two or three days in a pan, with salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, scallions, and two onions, cut in slices. When ready for dressing, take the liver, minceit with an equal quantity of bacon, add salt, pepper, and a little pounded spice; to this put twice as much quenelle farce ; mix them together with the yolks of three eggs ; stuff the body of the hare with it, and sew up the skin. Lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, place the hare on them, and cover with bacon; put round it some slices of veal, two carrots, cut in slices, three onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, a little salt, and a bottle of white wine; simmer these for two hours, or more, according to the age of the hare. ^ When done, drain and glaze it. then re- duce the liquor to a jelly; adtl to it two ladiesful of espaqnote; if it should be too highly seasoned,put to it about an ounce of butter, and a little lemon juice; put this sauce in a dish, and serve the hare on it. Hare’s Ears.—Take as many pair of ears as your dish will contain ; scald them well, and braise them till tender; add a glass of wine, and a slice or two of lemon; when done, take them out, dip them in a thick batter, and fry them. Serve with any relishing sauce. Hare {Fillets q/"), with Anchovies.— Cut the fillets from one or two hares, and lard them with anchovies (soaked in water and in slips for the purpose); sim- mer the fillets between two dishes for about half an hour, with butter, pepper, and half a dozen sbalots; when done, place them on a dish, but keep it hot. Put to the shalots a little cullis, a table- spoonful of verjuice, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; keep this on the fire till tolerably thick ; pour this sauce over the fillets, and serve them. Hare {Fillets of). Larded.* — When your hare is skinned, run your knife along the back-bone, from the wing to the leg, and remove the fillet, and lard it with baCon, and form itaccording to your taste. Put some slices of bacon into a saucepan, also some slices of onions and carrots, a little thyme and bay-leaf; lay the fillets on this, add a little consomme, and stew them about three quarters of an hour ; having covered them with but- tered paper, close the stewpan, and put fire on the lid. When done, glaze them. Serve them on cucumbers d la creme, a poivrade, or any thing else you choose. Hare (Fillets of) Marines Sautes.*— Take oft the fillets, trim and lard them as the fillets sautes ; then put them into a pan with salt, pepper, two bay-leaves, thyme, parsley, whole scallions, and a large glass of vinegar; leave the fillets in this for a week. When wanted, tak« them out, drain, and put them into the tossing-pan ; pour in a sufficient quantity of melted butter to make tlie fillets float; set your pan over a brisk fire ; turn them when done on one side ; as soon as they are firm to the touch, take them out, drain, and dish them on a poivrade. Hare {Fillets of) Sautes.*—ten fillets of hare, cut them into slices, flatten them with a knife, trim them to as round a shape as you can, and as each piece is done, put it into a tossing-pan ; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; add a little melted butter to it; put your pan over a fierce fire, moving it about to prevent the pieces from sticking; as soon as one side is done, turn and do the other; then put them in a dish, take out tlic butter, but not the gravy, from the pan, and to It put a glass of white wine and four ladiesful ol espagnole ; reduce them to half, and then strain them over the fillets. Take care to drain the fillets from their gravy, that the sauce be not too clear; it ought, properly, to adhere to them. Hare, to Fry a.—When the hare is skinned, lay it on a gridiron till hot through ; then quarter and fry it to a nice colour ia lard ; soak some toasted bread( 284 ) II A R H A R in beef stock ami white wine, with pound- ed ginger and cloves; strain it, add a little verjuice, and serve up the hare with butter, sugar, mustard, and lemon- juice. Garnislj tiie dish witli greens and sliced lemon. Hk'R'E, Haricot.*—Prepare a hare as for roasting, cut it in pieces, which put into a saucepan lined with streaked bacon; add turnips, salt, pepper, sweet herbs, half a pintof good stock or boiling water only. Let itstand, closelycovered, over a small fire, and when nearly done, throw in about thirty pieces of fried bread; skim oft' the fat, put it in a hot dish, and squeeze lemoi\-jnice over it. Hare, Hushed.* —Skin and stuff a hare, tie some thin slices of bacon over, and spit it; set it before the fire, and lialf roast it; then take it up, cut it in pieces, and having made some good beef gravy, put in the hare; simmer it for two hours; then add a glass and a half of port wine; let it stand a little while longer over tlie fire, and then serve it with currant-jelly. Hare, Jugged. — Having skinned a bare, cut off the shoulders and legs, and divide the back into three pieces; rub them well with fat bacon, and put them into a stewpan with the trimmings, all- spice, mace, whole pepper, a small clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, three onions, parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, a quart of veal stock, and three gills of port wine ; simmer the whole till three parts done ; then take out the shoulders, legs, and back; put them into another stewpan, strain the liquor to them, add a little flour and butter, stew them till quite done; take off the fat, season with cayenne, salt, .and lemon-juice, and serve the whole in a deep dish. Hare Loaf.*—Make a fnree in the same manner as for the Boudins of hare, with the addition of the liver pounded and rubbed through a quenelle sieve. Take a mould of the size you wish to have the loaf, litie this completely with thin slices of baron; then put in the/arce; have a saucepan with boiling water, put the mould into it, but do not let the water come wiihiii an inch of the top of it, lay thin slices of bacon over the hare, cover the saucepan and pul fire on the lid ; let the water simmer, in about an hour, sec if it be sufficiently done, if so, take it from the mmdd. Glaze and serve it w'th a fumet of game sauce ; if you think proper, make a hole in the top, intowliicli put the kidneys of the bare, previously dressed in a little champagne. , Marf. wfff/i O/Zecs.*—Your hare being skinned, cut it in pieces, lard the legs and fillets with small lardotu; braise the pieces, but when about three parts done, lake them out and put them into a sauce- pan; then take the gravy of the hare, mix it with the blood of a chicken, soak liver in it, pound, and then add it with the gravy and half a hundred olive.s (pre- viously soaked and scalded), to the hare; set it on a slow fire until the olives are tender; put the whole into a dish, squeeze lemon-juice over, and serve it very hot. Hare Pie.—Cut a hare in pieces, sea- son it with pepper, salt, nutmegs, and mace ; put it into a jug with half a pound of butter, cover it close, and set in a large saucepan of boiling water. In the mean time make a forcemeat with a qu.arterof a poutid of scraped bacon, two onions, a glass of red wine, the crumb of a small loaf, a little sweet marjoram, the liver minced small; season with peu- per, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole together with the yolks of three eggs; make a raised crust, at the bottom of which lay some of the forcemeat, then some of the hare ; put forcemeat on them, .and so on till your hare is all in; add the gravy from the hare, cover the pie, and bake it for an hour and a half. Hare, Potted.—Skin and wash a hare perfectly clean ; cut in pieces, and put them into ajar with butter, pepper, salt, mace, and herbs, if you choose, tie it over and set it in an oven with tl>e bread. When done, take the meat from the bones .and pound it with the fat which comes from the gravy to a fine paste. Press it down closely in pots, and cover it 'vith clarified butter. Hare, Bagoilt tf.—Skin and take all the bi.nes from a hare that has hung son>e d.aysfletive the head untouched); lay it open on the table; strew pepper and salt, and spread a good forcemeat over; roll it up close to the head, tie it up, and stew it in a cle.vr braize, which must be reduced to half the quantity; then add half a bottle of port, and stew till the hare is done; take it out, and put toilie liquor a little plain sauce; reduce tl>e whole to the proper consistence; add truffles, morels, mushrooms, cocks'- combs, fat livers, forcemeat-balls, and artichoke-bottoms; a little lemon juica may be .added ; serve the hare with ihi* sauce. Hare, Roasted.—The hare being skm- ned, cleaned, and trussed, make a good stufling as follows : a quarter <'i a pound of beef-suet, shred fine, some bread- cruuibs, the liver boiled and chopped small, sweet herbs, irrated lemon-peel, nnd nutmeg; mix these together we^., bind them with an egg, put this into the hare, tie it up, and fasten it to the spit;( 285 ) H A R H A R put a quart of luilk into tlie dripping, and baste the liare witli it. When nearly done, flour the hare -well, and baste with butter to froth it. A small hare takes an hour and a half, a large one two hours, to roast. Another umy.—'yf hen the hare is truss- ed and stulled, cover it witli thin slices of bacon, tie them on, baste it with drip- ping. Some persons prefer stale beer; rikewise add an anchovy, a glass of red wine, and another egg to the stufling. Serve the. hare with gravy and melted butter. Habe, Roasted.—C\ii the skin from a hare that lias been well soaked ; put it on the spit and rub it well with Madeira, pricking it in various places that it may imbibe plenty of wine; cover it entirely with a paste, and roast it. When done, take away the paste, rub it quickly over with egg, sprinkle bread-crumbs, and baste it gently with butter (still keeping it turning before the fire.) until a crust is formed over it and it is (>f a nice brown colour; dish it over some espagnole with Madeira wine boiled in it: two or three cloves may be stuck into tne knuckles if you think proper. Hare, to Roast in the Skin.—Clean the inside of the hare in the usual way ; •stufiF and roast it. When nearly done, flay, oft' the skin, strew bread-crumbs, cinnamon pounded, and flour over it, pretty thick, froth it well. Make_ a sauce with claret, vinegar, ginger, cin- namon, barberries, and a little sugar; pour it into a dish, lay the hare on it, garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve it. Hare en Salamis.—Take a cold roast- ed hare, chop it into small pieces ; cut a large onion into dice, and fry it of a good colour in butter, with a bay-leaf; ttjdd about two spoonsful of flour, and when it is well mixed with the butter, put in a quart of gravy, set it on the fire, and keep stirring until it lioils: then put in the hare, set the saucepan by the side of the fire to simmer, in an hour add half a pint of port, and simmer it for another half hour. VVhen done, squeeze in tliejuice of a lemon, and a small quan- tity of cayenne, and serve it. Hare, uu Sang.*—Sltin and parboil a hare; then lake oft'the skin, cut oft'all the meat, and mince it very small; cut some pork leaf into dice, slice some onions, mix these together, and toss them up over the fire; wlien the leaf begins to melt, pour on it a pint of pig’s, lamb’s, or calf’s blood; nut in the minced hare, set them on tlie fire, and when the whole is of a tolerable consist- ence, place two cauls open on the table, lay a large slice of bacon on it, nut in the hare, &c., cover it with another large slice of bacon, gather up the cauls, and form the mass ns near as possible to the resemblance of a liare; tie it up and bake it. When done, clear away the fat, and serve it. Hare, to Scare a.—Lard and stuff a hare, and put it into a saucepan, with two quarts of good gravy, one of port wine, a lemon sliced, a bundle of sweet herbs, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and half a dozen cloves; cover it close, and let it stew over a alow fire till three pai tadonet then take it out, place it in a dish ; mix together, bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, shred small, grated lemon-peel, and nutmeg ; strew these over the hare. Hare <So!<p.—Having skinned and cleaned the hare, cut it in pieces and put them into a stewpan with the follow- ing ingredients;—Two onions, each with a couple of cloves in them, parsley, bay- leaf,thyme, basil, marjoram, a little mace, and two or three glasses of port wine; set the whole over the stove to simmer, in an hour’s time,addas much boilingstock as will cover the hare ; then let it simmer again till done. Take out the meat, strain the liquor, and lay some crumb of bread in it. Take, all the bones out, pound the hare, rub it through a sieve, add the broth to it, and season the whole to your taste. Hare, Stewed.—Having skinned your hare, divide just below the ribs ; cut the fore part into pieces, and put them into a stewpan with a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, pepper-corns, an an-, chovy, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add sufficient water to cover them, and let them stew gently. In the meanwhile make a good stuffing, which put into the other part; tie it up, lard and roast it; flour it well, and baste with either butter or small beer. When the stew is tender, take out the meat, strain the liquor, add to it a glass of red wine, a spoonful of ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; stir it over the fire till pretty thick; then lake up the hare, lay it in a dish, place the stewed pieces round, and pour the sauce over. Have some good gravy in a sauce tureen. HARICOT by way of Soup.—Cut a large neck of mutton into two pieces, put the scrag into a stewpan with aquart of water, four large carrots, and turnips ; boil it gently over a slow fire till all the goodness be out of the meat; then bruise the vegetables into the soup to thicken • t. Fry six onions (sliced) in butter, and put the other part of the meat to theHER HE A 286 Bnup, and stew till the latter is tender ; season with pepper and salt, and serve it very hot in a tureen. HARTSHORN Cream.—Boil a quar- ter of a pound of l»artshnrn-shavint!M in three pints of water; when reduced to half a pint, strain it through a jelly-bag ; put it to a pint of cream and a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and give them one boil together; then put it into cups or glasses, and let them stand till cold, when turn them out on a dish ; slick some sliced blanched almonds on the top of each. White wine and sugar is usually eaten with them. Hartshobn Flummery.—Boil half a pound of hartshorn-shavings in three pints of water till reduced to one pint; strain it into a basin and set it by till lukewarm ; then put to it a pint of thick cream (boiled and cold), a gill ofwtiite wine, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and a sufficient quantity of pow- der-sugar to sweeten it; stir all these together till well mixed ; dipyour moulds in warm water, put in the flummery ; when cold, turn them on a dish with cream, white wine, and sugar, mixed together and poured round them. Cut a few almonds blanched into thin slips, lengthwise, and slick in the top of each. Haktshoux Jelly.*—Grate a pound of hartshorn, and put it into a saucepan with three quarts of water; set it on the file and boil it t'll reduced to half; then strain it into an earthen pan. Clean the saucepan tvell, and put into it the white of an egg and a small quantity of water, and whisk it to a froth; put to the de- coction ot hartshorn, a pound of crushed sugar; add these to the white of egg, set the saucepan on the fire and skim it well; then add the juice of six lemons strained, and three pints of white wine; give the whole a few boils, then pass it two or three times through a jelly-bag (in which put a little cinnamon). Wlien the jelly is perfectly clear, pour it into your moulds. Tlie jelly should be strained near the fire, or in a warm place, other- wise it will congeal, and consequently not strain propei ly. H^SH, cold.—Mince a nice white piece of veal, wash and core some ancho- vies ; take some pickled oysteis, pickled cucumbers, and a lemon ; shred and mix them with the veal, and p'ace it in a dish ; lay round it slices of veal, fillets of anchovies, picltletl cucumbers sliced, whole pickled oysters, mushrooms and capers; lettuces shred small; pour in oil and vinegar, salt and pepper, and serve. HEATIICOCK, to bake.—Open the skin of a hea'ihcock, lake the meat from the breast, and mince it with beef suet, sweet herbs, three artichoke bottoms (boiled), some chesnuts roasted and blanched; marrow and skirrets boiled: these ingredients being minced very small, season them with pepper and salt, add the yolks of three eggs; mix the whole together, and put some of it in the place of the breast; fasten the skin, prick Uie back, and put it into a stew- pan, with broth, marrow, artichoke, cut in pieces, chesntits, and some of the force-meat made into balls; when suffi- ciently done, take it out, serve it with fried bread, and the sauce ; garnish the dish with slices of lemon, yolks of hard eggs, and chesnuts. HEDGEIiO(5, to make a.—Blanch two pounds of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar, moistening occa- sionally with canary and orange flower- water ; beat the yolks of tw<dve, and the whites of seven eggs with a pint of cream and some powder sugar; put this with the almond paste and lialf a piound of fresh butter into a saucepan, set it oyer a stove and keep it constantly stirring till sufficiently firm to be. moulded into the shape of a hedgehog: stick it full of blanched almonds, cut lengthwise, into slips, and place it in a dish ; beat up the yolks of four eggs, put them to a pint of cream (sweetened to the taste) ; stir them over H slow fire till hot, then pour it round the hedgehog and let it stand : when cold, serve it. A good calf's-foot jelly may be poured round, instead of the cream, if pre- ferred. HEKBS, to dr!/.—Gather marjoram, savory, thyme, basil, parsley, ficc. on a dry day, in the proper sea-on, bef<>re they are in flower ; divide them into sinall bunches, and hang them on a line in a room where there is a free ci:rrent of air, but no sun : in about three weeks, lay them in rows, in boxes, and keep them in a dry place. Hekb Pudding.—IVash, scald, and shred small, spinach, licet, parsley, and leeks, of each a handful; have ready a quart of groats (previously soaked in warm water for half an hour), cut a pound of hog’s lard and three onions into dice, mince three sage leaves; mix all these ingicdienis, add a little salt ; and tie them up clo.se in a cloth : whilst boiliiq?, the string must be loosened to allow It to swell. [-lEaBs (Fine) Sauce (if.*—" ork tipa piece of butter in some flour, melt it, and then put to it the following herlrs, shred small:—parsley, scallions, tarra- gon, borage, garden-cress, chervil, esc.; bjil them altogether for about a quaiterHER ( 287 ) HER of an hour; add a glass of stock, and serve it very tint. Herbs, Steivsd.—Take some spinach, two handsful of parsley, and one handful of scallions ; chop the two latter, and sprinkle tliem among the spinach; put them into a stewpan, with a little salt and a bit of butter; when it begins to heat, shake the pan, keeping it closely covered ; let it stand over a stove till done. Herbs, Sweei—These w cookery are pnrsley,chibbol,rocambole,\vinter savory, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, mint, borage, rosemary, cress, marigold, marjoram, &c. The relishing herbs or Ravigoite, are .tarragon, garden-cress, chervil, biirnet, civet, and green mustard. Herbs en Papilloles.*—Grate half a pound of bacon, and put it, with six spoonsful of oil, and a quarter of a pound of butter into a saucepan; add to it four dessert-spoonsful of mushrooms, shred small; give them a few turns over the fire. When done, put in two dessert- spoonsful of shalots, give them a turn or two, do the same with two spoonsful of parsley*, then do the whole together; add salt, pepper, and spices ; when done, put herbs into a pan, to be used when wanted. The herbs must all be shred small before they are put into the sauce- pan. Herb Pie.—Take a handful ofspinacli, double the quantity of parsley, picked, two lettuces, mustaid and cress, and the leaf of borage and white beet; vvasb, scald, and having drained and pressed outall the water,shred them very small; mix them together, season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; make a batter with a couple of eggs, a pint of cream, half a pint of milk, and some flour, stir it well and pour it on the herbs in a deep di.sh ;• cover the whole with a crust, and bake. Herbs, Potaqe of.*—Take some sor- rel, lettuce, leeks, and chervil, mince them very small, and do them up in a little fresh bolter. When well amalga- mated and sufficiently done, moisten them with a proper quantity of stock or broth, and pour the whole on the bread, prepared as usual, in the soup tureen. Herbs (,Common) Poiage o/.*—Take two lettuces, a handful »,f sorrel, the same of chervil, and liaving washed them well, bruise and put them into a sauce- fian, with remains in the pot after broth las been strained ; set them on the fire, and when the herbs are tender, add broth, and let them stew till sufficiently done, Tlien soak bread as usual, ay it. covered with the lettuces, &c., in a tureen, and pour the soup over. HERON Pie.—Break the breast bone, and lay the bird in soak for.an hour in warm water and salt. Shred some onions and sweet herbs very fine; make them into balls, with a little butter, add pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace in powder; put some of these into the heron, lard tlie breast, and lay bacon on the wings. Make a raised crust, in which place the bird, with the remainder of the balls round it; squeeze in some lemon-juice, cover the pie, and bake it; wlien done, raise the top, pour in a little gravy, and let it stand till cold. Herox, to Roast.—When the heron is picked, parboil it, lard the breast and back ; roast it, basting with white wine and butter, beaten together: strew over it bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, shred small. Beat up the yolks of eggs with a little claret and vinegar, and some chopped anchovies : when roasted, serve it garnished with rosemary-leaves, orange and lemon sliced. HERRINGS.—There are three sorts of herrings, fresh, salted, and dried or red herrings. They are emptied and cleaned like any other fish ; when fresh, they are broiled, and served with melted butter, white sauce, &c. The salted herring should be soaked in cold water before it is cooked ; this is also broiled ; sometimes, however, it is cut in pieces, and eaten raw. The red herring is split down the back, the head and tail are cut offi and the fish broiled like the others. They may also be dressed as follows: when they have lain in cold water a suffi- cient time, soak them for two hours in milk, then split them down the back ; then have ready some melted butter, in which lias been mixed basil ami bay- leaf, minced small, the yolks of two eggs, pepper and nutmeg; rub the lierrings well with iliis, bread them; broil them over a gentle tire, and serve with lemon- juice. The best red herrings are full of roe, are firm and large, and have a yellow cast. Of the fresh herring the scales are bright if good, the eyes are full, and the gills red, the fi.-li also should be stiff’. Herrings, Boiled.—Scale, and other- wise prei>arc the herrings in the usual way ; dry them well, and rub them over with a little salt and vinegar; skewer their tails in their mouths, lay them on a fish-plate, and put them into boiling water; in ten or twelve minuies take them out, drain iliem, lay iheni on the dish, the heads towards the middle; serve them with melted butter and pai- sley, and garnish with horse-radish.( 288 ) II I P HER IIeiuunos, to Picfcle*—L&t the fish be well clemied and gutted, hut not opened ; take salt, pepper, mace, and nutmeg ; pound and mix these spices well; then rub a pan with an onion, strew some of the spice over the bottom, and put in as many fish as will lay flat on the bottom; then put a teyer of sliced onion, then fish, and so on alternately, till the pan be filled ; strew the pounded spice between each layer; pour the best vinegar over, so as to cover the whole; tie a brown paper over the pan, and bake till the bones are soft. Sprats and maekarel are, likewise, pickled in this way. N.B. The heads and tails must be cut ofl’. . Herrings, Pickled*—These fish are usually broiled, and served with a puree of vegetables, or butter sauce. They are, sometimes, however, used as a hms d'oeuwe, when they are cooked as follows: Take six pickled herrings, cut oil' the heads, ends of the tails, and fins; skin and soak them in equal quantities of milk and water; then drain and di.sh them with slices of onions, and apples. They are eaten with oil. Herring Pie.—?eale and clean the herrings, cut oH'thc heads, fins, and tails. Lay a crust at the bottom of a dish ; strew over it mace, pepper, and salt (all pound- ed) ; put in a little butter, lay in some of the herrings, season them, then put a layer of apples and onions, sliced thin ; then herrings again; add some water, and a little more butter; cover the pie, and bake it well. Herrings, Pofferf.—Cut off the heads, and lay the herrings close in an earthen- pan ; strew a little salt between each layer; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, and a nutmeg, cut in pieces ; fill up the pan with vinegar, water, and a little wliite wine; cover the pan close, and bake the fish : when cold, pound it, and put it by in pots in the usual way.—(See Potted Beef.) Herring-ROES {fresh), en Caisses.*— Scald, and drain the roes of twenty or thirty fresh herrings; give them a few turns over the fire, with a little butter, sweet herbs, mushrooms, salt and pep- per, but do not let them take colour: make a paper case, over the bottom of which lay some farce, to the depth of half an inch ; oil the ease, and set it on a gridiron, over hot ashes: as soon as the gratin is formed, put in the roes, strew raspings over them : do them in a Dutch- oven before a moderate fire, a few mi- nutes is sufticient, take ofl' the fat, and serve the rocs with espagnolc, and lemon juice. Herrings (Soft Roes of), en Caisses. Make a paper case to fit the dish you in- tend to use, and spread butter over the bottom of it. Broil eight soft-roed-her- rings; when done, take out the roes very carefully, and lay them in acase. Sprinkle pepper, salt, grated bread, and shred parsley, over them; butter and bake them in a hot oven ; when done, pour a mailre d’hOtel into the case, and the juice of a lemon : serve them very hot. Herrings, Stexued. — Clean and put the herrings into a fish-kettle, with a sufficientquantity ofstock to cover them; add two or three cloves, a carrot, pepper- corns, an onion, a clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, parsley, and half a bottle of port wine. Stew the fish in this till done, then take them out, keep them hot, strain, and reduce the liquor with a little sauce tournee; then pass it thiough a tammy into another stewpan, stir in a little butter and lemon-juice, dish your her- rings, and pour this sauce over them. Herrings {Red).*—Take half a dozen red herrings, cutoff the heads and tails, split them along the back, and open them; lay them on a dish and pour nil on them; broil them on both sides (two or three seconds are sufficient) ; take them off, and serve them instantly. Herrings {Red), ala Bruxelloise.*— Make a case with thick paper, butter it well, and lay in it eight or ten herrings, prepared as follows: cut off the heads and tails, take away the bones and skins, and cut tliem lengthwise into two fillets; put between each fillet a piece of butter, mixed with siveet herbs, some musli- rooms, parsley, scallions, shalots, garlic, pepper, and olive oil; sprinkle them pretty thickly with raspings, broil them slowly over a gentle fire, so as not to burn the paper, in whicli they must be served, wtiilst very' hot, with lemon- juice squeezed over them. Herrings {Red), with Herl>s.*—Take the best led herrings, skin and take off tlie heads and tails ; cut them into fillets lengthwise, and soak them in milk for four hours, then drain and put them into a saucepan with some butter, a little oil. parsley, and sweet herbs (shred small), salt, and pepper; let them simmer tor half an hour, take off the fat, and serve them liot: if the sauce be too thick, add a little orange-juice. Herrings(7fei/), a. 1'Italiemie.*—Soak the herrings to take out the salt; open and clean them well, flour them inside and outside, fry them in butter and oil, serve them laid on fried parsley. HIPl’OCR.’tS.*—Take orc ounce of cinnamon, two drachms of ginger, two penny-weights of cloves, nutmeg, andHOG ( 289 ) HON g.ilangala penny-weightof each. Pound tlipse together well, and infuse them in a pint of red or white wine, and a pint of malmsey; to this, add a pound of the best loaf sugar. These proportions will make a quart of the liquor. HippocnAS (red). — Pour a gallon of claret into an earthen pan, put to it a blade of mace, some long pepper, four grains of white pepper, a drachm of cin- namon, and a little roriander-seed (all bruised separately); add two pounds of powder sugar, and a dozen sweet almonds pounded. Hippocras (white).—Take a gallon of white wine, two ounces of cinnamon, two pounds of sugar, a little mace (all in powder), a few peppercorns, and a couple of lemons cut in quarters. When these have infused some time, strain it three or four times through a jelly-bag. This liquor may be flavoured with musk, or ambergris, by tying a small quantity of either drug (beaten with a little sugar), in a piece of cloth, and putting it in the hag through which it is strained. HOG’S Blood.* — C\ii an onion into dice, and fry it in either butter or lard, when done, pour in the blood, stir it well, add boiled rice, or barley, and sea- son it very liigh with pepper and salt. Hoo’s Cheeks to Z)ry.—Having cut the snout and taken out the brains, split the head, remove the upper bone, rub the clieeks well with salt, and let it stand: the next day, rub away that, and add fresh salt; the following day, cover the bead with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay, and a little common salt, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, turn it frequently. VVlien it has lain tliws ten days, take it out, and smoke it like bacon. Hog’s Ears Foi'ced.—Parboil two or three pair of hog’s cars: then take an anchovy, some sage, parsley, and half a pound of suet (all chopped small), bread crumb', and pepper; bind these together with the yolk of an egg; stuff' the ears with this, fry them in batter to a nice colour, pour away all the fat, and put them into a stewpan with half a pint of rich gravy, a glass of madeira, three spoonsful of mustard, a piece of butter, rolled in flour, an onion, and a little pep- per, cover the pan close, and stew gently for half an liour, shaking them occasion- ally; when done, take out the onion, lay the ears in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Hog's Head (excellent Meat o/).—Put a head into some tongue pickle, and when it has lain sufficiently long, take it out and boil it till the bones will come out with ease; then skin, bone, and chop the meat, whilst hot; season it with pepper (black and white), nutmeg, and salt, if necessary; lay part of the skin at the bottom of a potting pan, press in the meat, cover it with the remainder of the skin, put on a weight, and let it stand till quite cold. Then turn it out. Boil the liquor it was dressed in with some vine- gar, skim it well, and when cold put the head into it. Hog’s Head like Brawn.—Wash a head thoroughly, and boil it, till all the bones will come outj then let it cool. Put the inside of the cheeks together, with salt between, and the ears round, lay them in a cloth, and press them into around pan, put a weight on, and let them remain two days ; then boil a pint of malt, with salt and water, and when cold put the head into this pickle. Hog’s Head, as fVild Boar.—Cut the head close to the shoulder, bone the neck part, cut off the chops, part of the fle.sli of the nose, as far as the eyes, take the bone off, and lard the in»ide with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt and spices ; rub it all over with common salt, half an ounce of saltpetre ; put it into a pan, with half a handful of juniper-berries, thyme, bay- leaf, basil, cloves, half a handful of cori- ander, cover the pan, and leave it for a week; then take out the head, tie it up, dry it; put it into a sancepan, with three pints of red wine and water, onions, car- rots, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of garlic, half a nutmeg grated, thyme, bay-leaf, six cloves, and two pounds of lard; taste the braise before it is quite done; add salt if necessary ; it is suffici- ently cooked when it gives way to the touch ; let it cool in the braise, and serve it cold, garnished with bay-leaves, ac- cording to fancy. Hoo’s Puddings. (See Black Pud- dings. HONEY to Clarify—(M. Fonque's Method.)*—Take six pounds of honey, a pound and three quarters of water, two ounces and a quarter of pounded chalk, live ounces of coal, (pulverized, washed, and well dried), the whites of three eggs beaten in three ounces of water, for each pound of honey. Put the honey, water, chalk, and egge, into a copper vessel, capable of holding about one-third more than the above quantities ; let them boil for two minutes, tlirow in the coal, mixing it with a spoon, and continue the boiling two minmes longer; then take the saucepan from the lire, and let it stand nearly a quarter of an hour, that the liquor may cool; then take a new sieve (which must he well washed, or it will impart a disagreeable taste), pass the honey through it, taking( 290 ) ICE HOT caic to filter the first drops twice, as they generally carry with them some portion of the coal. The syiupwhicli still adheres to the coal, and other materials, may be separat- ed as follows: pour boiling water on tliem until they no longer retain any sweetness ; then put these different waters together, set them over a large fire to evaporate, till the syrup only re- mains. This syrup contracts the flavour of barley sugar, and must not be added to the clarified honey. HOPS *—The early shoots of hops are sometimes used in the spring, as substi- tutes for asparagus; they are dressed in the same manner; and served with a white sauce, or with oil. HORSERADISH Sauce Cold.—Chop up some parsley, chibbol, shalots, a clove of garlic, capers, and anchovies, to these add a spoonfut of horseradish scraped very fine, a spoonful of oil, vinegar, pep- per and salt. Horseradish Sauce Hot.—Slice two onions, and fry them in oil, and when they begin to colour, put them into a saucepan, with a glass of white wine, the same of broth, two slices of lemon, peel- ed, two cloves of garlic, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, and two cloves; boil these a quarter of an hour, and then strain it; add capers, and an anchovy chopped, pepper, salt, and a spoonful of horse- radish, boiled to a pulp ; warm the whole without boiling. HOTCH-POTCH. —Take some old pease, and stew them with some onions ip a little water, with a beef or ham bone : in the meanwhile fry some mutton chops, well seasoned, to a nice colour ; and about an hour before serving put them into a stewpan, pour the pease, &c. over, add a little butter rolled in flour, and stew them. Serve all together in a soup dish, knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with the pease, onions, and lettuces; without frying is likewise an e.'ccellent way of making this dish. Hotch-potch.—Cut four ox tails into pieces at the joints, take a pound of gravy beef, and the same of pickled pork, cut each in half, and put these articles into a Siiucepan, cover them with water, and when it boils, skim it well; add half a savoy, two ounces of mushrooms, some turuips, carrots, onions, leeks, celery, a bay leaf, whole pepper, allspice, and a little mace; when nearly done, put in two quarts of veal stock ; as soon as the meat is tender, take it out, and put it into a deep dish, hut keep it hot; siraiii the liquor, take off’ all the fat, season it with cayenne, salt and lemon-juice ; have leady some carrots, turnips, celery, and onions, the three former cut in pieces; stew these separately till tender, and strain off' their essences to the above liquor; clear it with whites of eggs; strain it, put in the vegetables; boil the whole gently for ten minutes, and then pour it over the meat. Hotch-potch.—Take some young car- rots, cut them into round pieces, all ihe same length ; boil them in a little stock, with a small quantity of sugar; when sufficiently done, reduce the sauce; put some good espagnole to them, season it well, take off' the fat, and serve. Hotch-potch Soup. — Blanch some carrots, turnips, and celery, cut in pieces of an equal length ; put them into some clear brown slock, and boil them for about an hour ; in the meanwhile, stew a few mutton chops, and just before it is served, put them into the soup; cut some crusts of bread into thin slices, trim, and soak them separately in so.me broth, lay them carefully in a tureen, and pour the soup with the meat and vegetables on them; do this gently, so that the bread be not broken. I. ICE.*—Sorbetieres or moulds for cream or fruit-ices, are made of two sorts of materials, block-tin and pewter; of these, the latter is the l)est, thesubrtance to he iced congealing more gradually in it than in the former; an object much to be desired, as when the ice is formed too quickly, it is very apt to be rough, and full of lumps like hail, especially if it be not will worked with the spatula; the other utensils necessary for this operation, are, a deep pail, with a cork at the bottom, and a wooden spatula about nine inches long; being so far pro- vided, fill the pail with pounded ice, over which spread four hanasful of salt; then having filled the sorbetiere, or mould, with cream, &c.; put on the cover, and immerse it in the centre of the ice-pail; taking care the ice touches the mould in all parts ; tlirow in two more handsful of salt, and leave it a quarter of an hour ; tlien take the cover from the mould, and with the spatula stir the contents up to- gether, so that those parts which touch the sides of the mould, and consequently congeal first, may be mixed with the liquid in the middle ; woik this about f>>r seven or eight minutes; cover the mould, take the pail by the cars, and shake it round and round for a quarter o[ an hour; open the mould a second time, and stir as before; continue these oper- ations alternately, until the cream, or( 291 ) I N D ICE whatever it may be, is entirely concealed, and perfectly smooth, and free from lumps. Take care to let out the water, \vluch will collect at the bottom of tlie pail, by means of the cock, and press the ice close to the sorbetiere with the spatula. When the cream is iced, take it from the pail, dip the mould in warm water, but not to let it remain an instant j dry it quickly, turn it out, and serve it as soon as possible. All sorts of ices are finished in this manner; the preparation of the articles of which they are composed, constitutes the only difference between them. Ice for Iceing {/tow to prepare).—Take a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, and throw in among it a large handful and a half of salt; you must pre- pare in the coolest part of the house, that as little as the warm air as possible may come. The ice and salt being in a buc- ket, put your cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so that it may touch every part. In a few minutes put a spa- tula or spoon in, and stir it well, remov- ing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If tlie ice-cream or water, be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let the ice off as it thaws. Iceing for Cakes.—For a large cake, beat and sift eight ounces of line sugar, put it into a mortar, with four spoonsful of rose-water, and the whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, whisk it well, ana w'hen the cake is almost cold, dip a fea- ther in the iceing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but do not let it retn.aiii long enough to discolour. Keep the cake in a dry place. Ice a very large Cake. — Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs ; then, by degrees, beat a pound of double-refined sugar, sifted through a lawn sieve ; mix these well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; do not use more of the orange-flower water than is just sufficient to flavour it. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white; then, with a thin broad bit of hoard, spi'ead it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. Iceing/or Tarts.—Beat the j'olk of an egg and some melted butler well toge- ther ; w’ash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over as you put them into the oven ; or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. Ice kFater.—Hub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give it the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it is put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the Chinajuice, andoiily a little Seville, used, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Imperial.—Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and peel of two lemons, into a stone jar, pour on them seven quarts of boiling water, stir, and cover close. When cold, sweeten it with loaf sugar, strain it, bottle and cork it tight. Add in bottling, half a pint to the whole quantity. India Pickle.*—Take one pound of ginger, put it into a pan with salt and water, and let it lay all night, then scrape it, and cut it into thin slices ; put it into a pan with half a pound of bay salt, and let it lay till all the following ingredients are prepared; a pound of garlic peeled, and laid in salt for three days, then take it out, wash it, then let it lay in salt for another three days, then take it out and let it lay in the sun for another, till half dry ; an ounce of long pepper, an ounce of capsicum, salted and laid in the sun for three days, a pint of black mustard- seed bruised, half an ounce of turmeric, beat very small; pat all these ingredi- ents together in a jar, then put in as much vinegar, as, when the cabbage; or whatever you intend to pickle, is put into it, the vinegar will rise to the top of the jar. Then take cabbage, cauliflower, or whatever you choose to pickle, and cut them into small pieces, throw a good handful of salt over them, and set them in the sun (when it is very hot) for three days, drain the water from them every day, and fresh salt them again, turning the leaves till they are dry, then put them into the pickle, being particular that they are completely covered with the vinegar; tie it up close, let it stand a fortnight, fill it again with more vinegar, carefully watch it from time to time, to fill it up with vinegar, as it will waste very fast. India Pickle.*—One gallon of vinegar, one pound of garlic, a quarter of a pound of long pepper split, half a pound of flour of mustard, one pound of ginger scraped, and split, and two ounces of turmeric, when you have prepared the spice, and put it into the jar, pour tlie vinegar boil- ing hot over it, and stir it every day for a week. Then put in your cabbage, cauli- flower, or whatever you intend to pickle. Irish Slew—Take the best end of a neck of mutton, take off the under bone, 2C2292 ) J A C IT A anil cut it into chops; season them with pepper, salt, a little mushroom-powder, and beaten mace. Put them into a stew- pan, add a large onion sliced, some par- sley and thyme tied in a bunch, and a pint of veal broth. Simmer the chops till tl’.ree parts done, then add some whole potatoes peeled, and let them stew till done. Serve it up in a deep dish. The parsley and tliyme must be taken out when the stew is to be served up. Isinglass to Clarify.—Take about two ounces of the best and clearest sort of jsinglass for a quart mould of jelly, put it into a stewpan, with just sufficient quan- tity of cold water to completely cover it; set it by the stove, with a spoon in it, to stir it at times, and skim it when any scum rises ; let it boil very gently, and well reduce, only be careful not to re- duce it too much, as it will burn, and, of course, get a bad taste, and spoil your jelly; when you think it is sufficiently reduced, and looks clear, pass it through a sieve into a ba?on, ready for use. Isinglass, to Clarify.*—Take an ounce and quarter of the best isinglass, cut it into small pieces, and wash them seVeral times in warm water. Put the isinglass into a preserving pan, with five glasses of fillerea water, set it on the fire, and, as soon as it boils, place it at the side of the stove, so as to keep up the boiling; take off the scuin directly it rises ; and when the whole is reduced to three quarters, strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. Some add, in clarifying isinglass, lemon-peel, to remove its disagreeable taste; but as good isinglass ought to have no flavour, and as the lemon-peel is certain to give a yellow tinge to that, it is much better left out. Isinglass Flummery.—Put six ounces of isinglass into a quart of new milk, sweeten it, set it over the fire, and keep it stirring one way all the time, till it is jellied ; pour it into basins, and when cold turn it out; you may put in orange flower water if you like. Isinglass Jelly.—Take an ounce of isinglass, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and a quart of water; boil it till reduced to a pint, then strain jt over some sugar. Italienne.*—Put into a saucepan a spoonful of shred parsley, half a spoonful of shalots, the same of mushrooms (both minced small), half a bottle of white wine, and an ounce, of butter; boil these till no moisture remains, then put in two ladlcs- ful of veli'Uti, and one of consomim'.. set it to boil, taking care to skim off all the fat; when you find it about the consis- tence of clear broth, take it from the fire. put it into another vessel, and keepit hot in the buvi marie. Italienne, with Truffles.—Chop some nice black truffles, sweat them in a little consomme, and mix them with tlie brown Italian sauce. If you happen to have no Italienne ready, stew them for half an hour in an espagmle only. Keep this sauce thin and highly seasoned. J JACK or Pike {to choose).—If the fish is fresh, the gills will be red, the fish stiff', and the eyes bright: the best sort are caught in rivers, the worst are cauuht in ponds; it is an extremely dry fish, and very much improved by stuffing and sauce. They are not thought much of in England, hut are much esteemed in inland countries. Jack or Pike.*—If you wish to serve it as a principal dish, do not scale it, but take off the gills, draw it, and boil in court-bouillon. If as a side dish, it is dressed many ways; as for instance, cut it in pieces, leaving the scales on, and cook It in court-bouillon ; when done, and you are ready to serve, lake off the scales, and dish it for table, pouring over it any white sauce you think proper, to which it is usual to add capers. It may also be fricasseed like chickens ; in th'is case, cut it into pieces, and put it in a stewpan, with a slice of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some mushr. oms; turn it a few times over the fire, and then shake in a little flour; moisten with good stock and white wine, and stew it over a brisk fire; when done, and agreeably seasoned, put in the yolks of three eggs, beat up in cream. It may also be dressed matelote; or it may be fried, being first steeped iu a marinade. Jack or Pike (Small), a VAllemande. —Draw them, and cut them into pieces, and put them in a saucepan, with some slices of onion, whole parsley, two bay- leaves, some leeks, whole, two cloves, salt, coarse pepper, and a bottle of while wine. Having simmered half an hour, take them off the fire, scale them, cut off tlie fins, and put the slices into a sauce- pan. Then strain some court-bouillon through a silken sieve, pour it over the fish, and keep them hot. AViien you wish to serve, drain the slices of fish, and arrange them on the dish. Put a good piece of butter into a saucepan, with a full spoonful of flour, some grated nut- meg, coarse pepper, and half a glass of court-bouillon ; turn this sauce over the fire till it boils; then add the yolks ofJ A C ( 2D3 ) J A C two'eggs to thicken, stirring it vvell, but without letting it boil; lastly, strain, and pour it over the fish. Jack or Pike d /’Arlc^t{(?ie.*—Take a large jack, clean and scale it, take out the entrails by the gills; raise the skin from one side, being careful not to injure the fish ; lard a fourth part of it with anchovies, another quarter with gher- kins, a third with carrots, and a fourth with truffles. Stull' it with a fish farce, put it into a fish kettle; moisten it with a braise ; do not, however, let the larded parts soak in it j set it on the fire, bast- ing frequently with its own liquor ; keep fire on the top as well as under it. When done, serve it over a sauce hachie. Jack or Pike Baked.—Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following stuffing; some grated bread crumbs, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; rub it all over with butter, and bake it. Serve with a sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. In helping a pike, the back and belly should be slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards; by this means there will be fewer hones given. Jack or Pike Boiled.— Take a large jack, clean it, takeout the gills; make a stuffing with crumbs of bread, grated fine, some sweet herbs, chopped small, some grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, pep- per. salt, some oysters, chopped small, a bit of butter ; mix all these ingredients together with the yolks of two eggs ; put it into the fish, and sew it up; turn the tail into the mouth, and boil it in pump- water, with some vinegar and salt in it; when it boils put in the fish ; if tlie fish is large, it will take about three quarters of an hour to boil. Serve with oyster sauce poured over the fish, and some also in a boat. Jack or Pike, Bride’s Fashion.—Cut a pike_ into several pieces, boning and flattening them as much as possible; roll a good farce round them; tie them in bits of cloth, and braise them in white wine and broth, with a bit of butter, bits of roots, a bundle of herbs, pepper and salt; when done, strip each bit, and serve with what sauce you think proper; a relishing sharp sauce is generally con- sidered the best. Jack or Pike Broiled as Cutlets.—The fillets of pike being taken ofl'with a sliarp knife, cut each fillet in a sloping manner into four or five pieces, at the same time taking off the skin I toss them up in an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt; lay them on paper, bread crumb tnem, and with a fork take them up,_and dip them into clarified butter, then in bread crumbs again; broil them over a mo- derate fire of clear wood ashes, a good colour on both sides; place them c/i couronne (in form of a crown) round the dish; squeeze the juice of nearly half a lemon into four table-spoonsful of butter sauce, mix this well up with a bit of glaze; when very hot, pour it into the centre of the fish. Jack or Pike d la Chambord.*—Take off the scales, and clean a good size jack; remove the skin, and lard the fish, and put it into a fish-kettle with a marinade ; when it boils, take it out, and place it in the oven, basting it occasionally. As soon as it is sufficiently done, take it from the oven, let it drain, and then serve it; place round it quenelles, veal sweet- breads larded, cray-fisli, artichoke bot- toms, croutons, and a garniture d la Chambord ; to tiiese may be added pigeons d la Gautier, eels larded with truffles, &c. Jack or Pike au Court-bouillon.*— Clean the fish without opening it, tie up the head, put it in the fish-kettle; pour the court-bouillon over, and simmer it for an hour, or longerif the fish be large. If it is served as a rot, let it cool, then lay a napkin in a dish, place the fish on it, garnished with parsley. Jack or Pike au Dauphin.* and scale a large jack ; soak it in oil, with sweet herbs, salt and spices; pass a skevver through its eyes and the middle of the body, giving it the form of a do|- phin ; bake it, basting with the mari- nade, and serve it with capers or anchovy sauce. Jack or Pike Fricassee {fVhite).— Thoroughly wash the pike, then cut it into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with butter, some mushrooms, a dozen of small onions, half boiled, some parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, a bay-leaf; soak these together some time, then add a pint of white wine and broth, salt and whole pepper; boil on a quick fire, reduce the sauce; take out the parsley, shalots, cloves, thyme, and bay-leaf, and thicken with cream, eggs, and a little nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon, provided the wine does not make it sufficiently tart. Jack or Pike with Ch-avy.*—Ijard a jack with bacon; line a stewpan with slices of veal ana bacon ; lay your jack on them, cover it with the same, and let it stand over a slow fire for half an hour, then pour over it a bottle of while wine, and a pint of good stock ov consomme; 2C3( 294 ) J E L J AC close the stewpan tight, place it in the oven ; when done, serve it with the braise and its own gravy. Jack or Pike, Grenadins c/.*—Hav- ing scaled and otherwise prepared the fisl), cut it into pieces, lard them with streaky bacon, and put them into a stew- pan ; add a bunch of sweet herbs, and fillet of veal, cut into dice, white wine and brothstew it, and when done, strain the liquor ; lay the pieces of jack in a dish, glaze them, and serve witli any sauce you please. Jack or Piked I’Italienne.*—Putsome small jack into a stewpan with some olive oil, sliced onions, a clove of garlic, car- rots, a bay-leaf, white vvine, stock, salt and pepper ; stew them over a slow fire, take off the fat, and serve them in the sauce. Jack or Pike d la Muitre d’Hotel.*— Having cleaned, scaled, and emptied some small pike, wrap them in a sheet of buttered paper, and broil them. When done, open them, and take out the spawn (if there be any), and put in its place a piece of butter, worked up with some shred parsley, salt and pepper. Jack or Pike en Matelote.*—Cut the pike in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, parsley, scallions, scalded onions, salt, pepper, and a bottle of red wine: boil it up, and add some butter, mixed with flour, and krowned with whatever garniture you may have by you ; boil the whole to- gether half an hour, and then serve all the articles together in a large dish. Any other fish may be added to the matelote; but they should not be put in till ihe pieces of jack are partly done. Jack or Pike Potted.— Scale it, and cut ofl' the head : split it, and take otit tlie back bone; strew it all over with bay-salt and pepper; cover it, and bake it i then take it out, and lay it on a coarse cloth to drain ; when it is cold, lay it in a pot just large enough to hold it, and cover it with clarified butter. It must be thoroughly drained from the gravy, otherwise it will not keep. Jack or Pike Salad.* — Cut the re- mains of ft cold pike into pieces, and mix with it capers, gherkins, anchovies, and some herbs, shred : serve the jack, gar- nishing the dish with lettuces and hard eggs. Mix oil and vinegar at table. Jack or Pike Stuffed aiul Roastal.*— Let the fish lay for some days, then empty and scale it: if it be for a maigre dish, lard it with anchovies and gherkins, or truffles; if not, with bacon rolled in salt, spices, shred parsley and scallions: stuff it: wrap the fish in a buttered paper, on which Bprc.ad sweet herbs, spices, and salt; fasten it on the spit, and baste with white wine and melted butler. When dene, take off the paper, and serve with a pretty thick sauce Xtiquante. JARDINIERE.*—The jardiniere is composed of the same articles, and in a similar manner to the Macedoine, the only diflerence consists in the sauce ; the vegetables for this being put into a reduced espagnolc, or a demi-gluce of roots : it is used on the same occasions as the Macedoine. JAUNE Mange.—BoW an ounce of isinglass in three quarters of a pint of water till melted ; strain it, then add the juice of two Seville oranges, a quarter of a pint of white wine, the yolks of four eggs, beaten and strained ; sugar accord- ing to taste ; stir it over a gentle fire tdl it just boils up ; when cold, put it into a mould, taking care, if there should hap- pen to be any sediment, not to pour it in. JELLY to cover Cold Fislt._—Take a maid, clean it, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s foot or cow- heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, and a slice of lean gammon of bacon. Let it stew till it will jelly, then strain it off; when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up frona the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of five eggs, and a bit of lemon. Boil without stirring it, and after a few minutes, set it by to stand for half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a napkin in it. When cold, cover the fish with it. Jellies for Entremefe.*—Hartshorn, calf’s feet, and isinglass, are the usual materials used to coagulate sweet jellies; of these three, the latter is the best, as, when properly clarified, (for which see Isinglass), it is the clearest, and has no unpleasant flavour. Jellies are made of all sorts of fruit, and sometimes of flowers and liqueurs. For directions to prepare them, see the various articles of which they are com- posed. . Jelly of Fromage Bavarois.*—1 ut the yolks of nine eggs into a stewpan, with a little salt, half a pound of sugar, a pinch of crisped orange-flowers, mid half a pint of cream (previously boiled) : set these over a gentle fire, and stir till it thickens, taking particular care that it does not boil, then strain it through a silk sieve ; have ready an ounce of clarified isinglass, mix it with the cream and a Chantilly cheese ; when well incor-I J E L ( 29o ) J EL porated, pour it into a mould, and finish with ice as iellv printunniere. Jelly (i-VKiif).*—Clarify half a pound of sugar, but tlie instant before it is quite clear, put in a small quantity of cochineai; then strain, and mix with it an ounce ol clarified isinglass, and the juice of two lemons; add to this the fruit of which your jelly is to be composed; stir them together lightly, ppur the jelly into a mould quickly,and put the mould on ice. Observe that the sugar and isinglass should be no more than lukewarm when mixed together. These jellies may be made of any kind of fruit, or the grated rinds of lemon, orange, or cedrats. Jelly, Gloucester.—Take an ounce of rice, the same of sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn-shavings, and eringo root; simmer with three pints of water, till reduced to one pint, strain it. When cold it will be a jelly; when you use it, serve dissolved in wine, milk, or broth. Jelly, Italian.—Make a wine or calf’s foot jelly, with which half fill your mould; when thoroughly set, take some Italian cream that has been turned out of a plain mould, cut this into slices, and after- wards cut it with a middling-sized plain round cutter; these pieces of cream lay in a circle round your jelly; when all are arranged, very gently put in jelly enough to cover them ; when that is set, fill up your mould, and when wanted, turn it out the same as any other jelly. Jelly, Ivory Dust.*—Boil one pound of ivory-dust in five pints of water till I reduced to a quart, strain it, and add to it one quart more water to the dust, boiled till reduced to a pint, then strain it; when strained, squeeze in some 1 orange and lemon-juice, and sweeten ac- I cording to taste. Jelly, to Keep.—Take a leg of beef, I and two shins, cut in pieces, a knuckle of veal; chop it all to pieces; one or two old cocks or hens, skinned, and two calf’s i feet; put all these into ten quarts of I water, and boil them down to a strong t jelly_, skim it well; add some salt, and ’ run it through a jelly-bag till it is clear. Jelly, Mosaic.—Boil half a pint of cream; when it boils, infuse the peel, i either of an orange or a lemon, accord- \ ing as you wish to decorate the jelly with ! eithei*. When the cream has imbibed 1 the flavour of the fruit, sweeten it with a ■i little sugar. Beat up with the cream 1 the yolks of four eggs, lay it on the fire t to thicken, and then put in some isin- I glass that has been previously melted. I' Strain the whole through a hair sieve, h and put it, well covered, on some ice, * that it may get quite firm. Take the >1 would which you intend to use, brush it lightly all over with oil, and then cut the white cream jelly with a knife in the first place, and next with sniall tin cutters. Decorate the mould without putting it on ice, for the damp would prevent the decoration from sticking on. Decorate the bottom first, then the sides; then only put the mould over ice. Next pour a little orange jelly lightly, not to injure the decoration, and let it get thick. When the orange jelly is frozen, thrust the mould deeper into the ice, then put a little more jelly to the height of the lower decoration on the sides; let the preparation be made firm again; mind the jelly is never to come higher than the flowerets, till the bottom has been first made firm; then gradually ascend the top. Cover and surround the mould with ice. When you wish to serve, dip a towel into some hot water, and rub the mould all round. Be careful that none of the jelly sticks to the sides before you touch the bottom of the mould. Tiien rub the bottom with the hot towel, and turn the jelly neatly into a dish. Were not all these precautions attended to, the two colours would melt and mix together. This jelly looks beautiful when it is well made. This jelly can only be well made in. winter time; for during the summer season it would melt, except made hard ; then it would not be so good. But if you should be particularly desirous of making it during the summer season, you must work it in a very cold place. Jelly Printanniere.*—Clarify three quarters of a pound of sugar, and an ounce of isinglass, as directed for each ; and having prepared your fruits or flowers according to the recipes, (see the various articles), mix them with the sugar when no more than lukewarm ; strain the mixture through a silk sieve, add the isinglass, stir lightly with a silver spoon, and put it into a mould; take about ten pounds of ice, break it up, put it into a tub or pail, in which immei.se the mould for three hours: then take out the mould, dip it in hot water as quick as possible, and then turn the jelly into a dish for table. Jelly Ribband. — Boil four calf’s feet without the great bones, in ten quarts of water, three ounces of hartshorn, three ounces of isinglass, a nutmeg quartered, and four blades of mace; boil till it is reduced to two quarts ; strain it through a flannel bag, and when it has stood twenty-four hours, scrape oil'all the fat very clean, slice the jelly, add the whites of SIX eggs beaten to a froth, and boil the whole up, and strain it through a flannel bag. Then pour it into small highJON J EL ( 296 ) glasses, .and run each colour as thick as a fiiiKer, eacli colour being thoroughly cold before another is poured on, which must be only lukewarm, or they will mix together. Red may be made with cochi- neal, green with spinachj yellow with saf- fron, blue with syrup of violets, and white with thick cream: the plain jelly itself may be used as a colour. Jellv Ruhanee.*—Prepare nine yolks of eggs as directed for jelly oi fromage- bavarois, but without the orange-flower ; when strained, add an ounce and half of clarified isinglass, and divide your pre- paration into four parts, in one of which put an infusion of chocolate; to the second, add an infusion of orange-flow- ers ; to the third some spinach-juice and bitter macaroons crushed; and put to the fourth some blancmange. Place your mould in ice, as much of each of these portions alternately as will occupy an inch in depth ; taking care that every layer is set before you pour on another. Jelly, Russian.*—Clarify three quar- ters of a pound of sugar, and two ounces of isinglass, put them together into an earthen pan, which place on ice; add to it the juice of two lemons, and four small glasses of kirschwasers; then take a whisk and beat it up over the ice till it becomes as white as beaten egg; the moment it gets firm, put it into a mould, and finish the jelly in the usual way. Jelly, Savoury, to put over Cold Pies. —It should be made either of a small bare knuckle of leg, or shoulder, of veal, or a piece of scrag of mutton ; or, if the pie is made of fowl, or rabbits, the car- casses, necks, or heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cowheel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, with a slice of h.-im, or bacon, a bundle of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion, or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea- spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same quantity of whole pepper, and three pints of water, into a stew'pan that shuts very close. When it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer slowly till quite strong; then strain it, and when cold, take off'all the fat you possibly can with <1 spoon; and then, to remove every p.arli- cle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. If, when it is cold, it is not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, whicii should be previously dipped in hot water, to pre- vent waste. Jelly Savoury.—Take all the scum off from the cold liqruor that either poultry- or meat has been braised in, or some veal stock, and make it warm; strain it through asieve into a stewpan, and season it to the palate with salt, lemon-pickle, Cayenne pepper, and tarragon or plain vinegar; add enough of dissolved isin- glass to make it of a proper stiffhese. whisk in plenty of whites of eggs, a small quantity of the yolks and shells, and just colour it; set it over the fire, and let it boil, then simmer it for a quarter of an hour, and run it through a jelly bag several times, till bright and fine. Jelly /fVtfpperf.*—Make a jelly Prin- tanniere, and pour about a quarter of it into a mould, and ice it, as therein di- rected ; then take the mould, .and place a basin in its stead, in which put thfr re- mainder of the jelly, and whip it with a whisk, as you would eggs, over the jelly, until the globules are no bigger than pins’ heads; pour it into the mould, and re- place it on the ice for three quarters of an hour, after which turn it out as usual. JESSAMINE to Candy. * — Boil a pound of clarified sugar to fort per le. and when about half cold throw in two hands- ful of jessamine flowers, and place them on hot ashes for two hours, that the flowers may dry well; then drain them on a sieve from the sugar, and have ready some more, sifted, in wnich put the jessamine, rubbing them well with your hands; place them again on a sieve, and set them in a stove till next day; after which sift the flowers; take three pounds of clarified sugar, boil it to souffle, have a proper mould ready, pour the sugar into it, and pul the flowers on it, push them down lightly with a fork, that they may be completely covered with the su- gar; place the mould in a moderate stove or oven for five day-s, then drain off the syrup; lay a sheet of paper on the table, and turn the candy quickly out of the mould. JOHN DOREY Boiled.—Set it over the fire in cold spring-water; treat it exactly the same as turbot, and serve it with lobster sauce in a boat. John Dorey d la Crime.—Rub your fish over with lemon, rover it with paper, and put it into a kettle, with half milk and half water, a bit of butler, salt, and a lemon squeezed in, set jt on the fire, and let it simmer gently till done; take it up, and drain it from the liquor, lay it on a dish, and pour a good cream sauce all over it. 11 will be much improved by mushnioms. JONQUILS, Candy (f.* — These flowers are candied precisely in the same w,ay as the jessamine. Jonquils fVhole.*—Take some double jonquils, cut the stalks about a quarter of an inch from the flowers; give themJ UN 297 ) K E H one boil in some sugar, (liquidV, then re- move them from the fire, ana let them stand a quarter of an hour ; drain them well, and put them into some sifted su- gar, working them about, and taking care tliat all the leaves may imbibe an equal uanlity of sugar, and the form of the ower preserved, which may be done by shaking each, and blowing away the su- perfluous sugar; lay white paper on a sieve, and arrange the flowers on it one by one, dry them in a stove ; keep them in boxes in a dry place. These flowers may also he candied as above ; in which case, the moulds should have a sort of grating at the top for the flowers: place a weight on to keep them immersed in the sugar. JULIENNE.*—This soup is composed of carrots, turnips, leeks, onions, celeiy, lettuce, sorrel and chervil; the roots are cut in thin slips, about an inch long, the onions are halved and then sliced ; the lettuce and sorrel chopped small; toss up the roots in a little butter, when they are done, add the lettuces, &c. moisten them with broth, and boil the whole over a slew fire for an hour or more, if necessary ; prepare some bread in the usual way, and pour the julienne over it. JUMBLES.—Mix one pound of fine flour with one pound of fine powder su- gar, make them into a light paste with whites of eggs well beaten ; add half a pint of cream, half a pound of fresh but- ter, melted, and a pound of blanched al- monds, pounded ; knead them all toge- ther, thoroughly, with a little rose-water, and cut out the jumbles into whatever forms you think proper; and either bake them in a gentle oven, or fry them in fresh butter; serve them in a dish, melt fresh butter with a spoonful of mountain, and strew fine sugar over the dish. JUNIPER BERRIES, (Ices of),—In- fuse some juniper berries in warm water, or take about a handful of the berries, and boil them a moment with a pint of water, half a pound of sugar, and a bit of cinnamon, and sift them through a sieve wiih expression, and finish the same as all others. Juniper, Ratafia of. — Infuse two ouncesof ripe juniper berries in two pints of brandy, adding half an ou?\ce of cin- namon, three cloves, a little aniseed and coriander seed ; add half a pound of sugar to each pint of brandy, having previously boiled it in a very little water. Let the whole infuse in a jar for six weeks, then strain, and bottle it. Juniper, Ratafia of.*— Take three ounces of juniper berries, anise, corian- der, cinnamon, and cloves, of_ each eighteen grains; bruise all these ingre- dients, and infuse them, for a month, in three pints of brandy; then strain it, add three quarters of a pound of sugar dissolved in half a pint of water, stir them together, pass the whole through a jelly- bag, and bottle it; keep it well corked. Juniper, (Ratafia of). — Take three pints of ratafia, put a quart of brandy into a jar, with a handful of juniper ber- ries, and one pound and a half of sugar, boiled in a quart of water, and well skimmed; stop the jar up close, and set it for about five weeks in a warm place ; then strain it through a filtering cloth, and, when it is quite clear, put it into bottles, taking care to cork them well. The ratafia will be all the better for keeping. JUNKET, Devonshire.—Warm some milk, and put it into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon, on the top, with- out breaking the curd. K. KAVIA.*—Take the hard roes of se- veral sturgeon, and lay them in a tub of water; take away all the fibres as you would from a calf’s brains, then, with a whisk, beat the roes in the water, shak- ing off’ from the whisk whatever fibres may be adhering to it; then lay the roes on sieves for a short time ; after which put them into fresh water again; and continue to whip them, and change the water, until the roes are perfectly cleans- ed and free from fibre; lay them ou sieves to drain, season them well with salt and pepper; wrap them in a coarse cloth, tying them up like a ball, and let them drain thus till the next day, when serve them with fried bread, and shalots chopped small. If they are to be kept for some time, put more salt to them. KERNELS, Creme of.*—Take half a pound of apricot kernels, cut them into small pieces, and infuse them in a gallon and a half of brandy and a quart of water for a week; then distil it; dissolve three pounds of sugar in a pint of orange water, and three quarts of water; add this to the distilled liqueur', filter in the whole through a jelly bag, and hot- tl6 it* Kernel TVater (Rhalshourg).*—'IaVe: a pound of apricot, half a pound of peach, and cherry kernels, put them to soak in warm river water; the next day, peel, and put them to infuse in three quarts of orandy for nine daj's; then distil them 111 an alembic in the bain marie. Dissolve298 K I D K I R four pounds of crushed sugar, in three quarts of filtered water, add half a pound of orange flower water, mix this with the brandy, strain it through a jelly-bag and bottle it. Keunels, Ratafia of.—Take a pound of apricot kernels, or, if you choose, you need only use almonds. Let them in- fuse eight days in two bottles of brandy, and one bottle of water, with a pound of sugar, a liandful of coriander-seed, and a small quantity of cinnamon ; then strain tlirough a filtering bag, and when quite clear, bottle itofl'. KETCHUP, English.—Peel ten cloves of garlic, bruise them, and put them into a quart of white wine vinegar; take a quart of white port, put it on the fire, and when it boils, put in twelve or four- teen anchovies, washed and cut in pieces: let them simmer in the wine till they are dissolved ; when cold, put them to the vinegar; then take half a pint of white wine, and put into it some mace, some ginger sliced, a few cloves, a spoonful of whole pepper bruised ; let them boil a little; when almost cold, slice in a whole nutmeg, and some lemon-peel, with two or three spoonsful of horse-radish; add it to the rest, stop it close, and stir it once or twice a day. It will soon be fit for use. Keep it close stopped up. Ketchup, JVhite.—Take a quart of white wine, a pint of elder vinegar, and one tiuart of water ; half a pound of an- chovies, with their liquor, half a pound of scraped horse-radisli, an ounce of slialots bruised,an ounceof white pepper bruised, an ounce of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of nutmegs cut in quarters; boil all together till half is consumed, then strain it off, and when cold, bottle it for use. It is proper for any white sauce, or to put into melted butter. KID.—Kid is good eating when itis but three or four months old, its flesh is then delicate and tender, but is not used after it has done sucking. To be good, itought to be fat and white. Itis dressed in the same manner as lamb or fawn. Kid to 7fo«s/.—Take the. head of the kid and prick it backwards, over the shoulders, and tie it down ; then lard it with bacon, and draw it with lemon-peel and thyme; then make a, farce of grated bre.id, flour, some forcemeat, minced small, beef suet, and sweet herbs, season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace, and nut- meg, add some cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; put this farce into tlie caul of the kid, and put into the inside, sew it up close, roast it, and serve with venison 8ciUC6» KIDNEYS.—-Cut them through the long way, score them, and sprinkle them over with a little pepper and salt; in order to broil all over alike, and to keep them from curling on the giidiron, run a avire skewer right through them. They must be broiled over a clear fire, being careful to turn them frequently till they are done ; they will take about teii or twelve minutes broiling, provided they are done over a brisk fire; or, if you choose, you may fry them in butter, and make gravy for them in the pan (after the kidneys are taken out), by putting in a teaspoonful of flour; as soon as it_looks brown, put in a sufficient quantity of water as will make gravy; they will take five minutes longer frying than broiling. Garnish with fried parsley : you may im- prove them if you think proper, by chop- ping a few parsley leaves very fine, mix them with a bit of fresh butter, and a little pepper and salt, and then put some of tliis mixture over each kidney. Kidney Dumplings.* — Make your dumplings in the usual way, put in each a mutton kidney, well washed, and sea- soned, with pepper and salt; boil them tied in a cloth, and serve them very hot. Kidney Omelet.*—Take a fine kidney from a cold roasted loin of veal, mince and soak it well in some cream; break seven or eight eggs on it, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; beat the whole with a whisk, and fry your omelet, taking care to keep it pretty th'ck. Kidney Pasty.—Roast a loin of veal ; when it is almost done, take the kidney, the fat, and some of the meat, and mince it small, with the marrow of half a dozen veal marrow bones, cold ; season with marjoram, thyme,and winter savory, cut small or pounded; add a quarter of a pint of rose-w,ater, the yolks of six eggs, a little nutmeg sliced, half a pound of sugar, and half a pound of currants ; mix all well together; and make them up in small pasties of puff paste, and fry them in butler. Kidney Pudding.*—Take a nice beef kidney, split it and soak it, then sea- son it with pepper and s.ali; make a paste, put in the kidney, cover with the paste, and pinch round the edge; it will take some time Ixiiiing. KIRSCH EN /r«sser.*—The best cher- ries for this purpose are the inorclla, which should be taken when qulte_ ripe : take off the stalks, and put the fruit into a tub. Have some new wc^d ashes, and wet them so as to make a kind of mouar of them, and extend it over the cherries; these ashes in drying form a complete hard crust, and thus prevents any eva- poration, and assists the fermentation. Leave the fruit thus for six weeks, at the end of which, remove the ashes, andK I S LAM ( 299 ) ; take out tlie pulp and juice of tlie cjier- ! rie8 immediately under it, and put them into the cucurbite (but not enoimh to I fill it), and distil them. The fire, during I the operation, should be managed with ’ great care, and increased gradually till I the produce of your distillation flows in a small stream, and cease the instant i the plilegm begins to appear; then i throw away the dregs from the cucurbite, I and put more cherries in, and distil as ! before. . Kirschen IVasser. _— Bruise the i kernels of some cherries, and throw I them, with their shells, into brandy ; let I them infuse till the season when you can I add some apricot kernels, without the ! shells, then leaving them to infuse for I two months longer, you must filter off I the infusion, then distil it, by which I means it will become as clear as the real i kirsnhen-wasscr Black Forest. Kirschen JVasser Creme.* — Take I three quarts of old kirschen-wasser, rec- I tify it, by which you will obtain two quarts of liqueur, to which add four ounces of double orange flower water; dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in three pints of distilled river water, over the fire ; wdien cold, mix it with the kirschen-w.isser, filter and bottle it. KISSES.*—Put the whites of eight egge, and two spoonsful of orange flower water, into a china basin, and whisk till they become a firm froth, then add half a pound of sifted sugar, stir it in with great care by means of a spatula: that done, lay small pieces of this mixture on i white paper; make each drop about the I size of a ratafia, rather conical than flat; I place the paper which contains them on I a piece of wood about an inch thick, and i put them in a very hot oven ; watch ’ them, and as soon as you perceive they 1 begin to look yellowish, take them out, I and detach them from the paper with I a knife as cautiously as possible, for they ! are very tender. Take a small spoon, 1 and with the end of it remove the moist t part, which is at the bottom, so as to make them a little hollow, and as you I do them, lay each on the paper, the hol- 1 low side upwards; put them on the wood into the oven again for a few minutes to ‘ dry; when done, lay them in boxes, and keep them in a dry and warm place. If thejr are for table, fill the hollow of > e.ach with a little whipped cream or rasp- berry jam ; put them together by couples, ' the cream or jam inside ; place them in a dish, and serve them as soon as pos- sible. L. LAMB lo Choose.—The vein In the neck of a fore-quarter of lamb ought to be of a fine blue, it is then fresh ; if it is of a green or yellow cast, it is stale ; if in the hind-quarter, there is a faint disagreeable smell under the kidney, or if the knuckle is limp, it is' not good; if the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh; grass lamb is in season in April or May, and con- tinues good till August. House Lamb may be had in great towns generally all the year round, but is in its highest per- fection in December and January. Fore-quarter includes the shoulder, neck, and breast. Hind-quarter is the leg and loin. The Head', the pluck is generally sold with the head, which contains the liver, lights, heart, nut, and melt. The Fry contains the sweetbreads, lambstones, and skirts, with some of the liver. LtMe Baked with lUce.— UeH roast either a neck or loin of lamb, then cut it into steaks ; boil half a pound of rice in water for ten minutes, and put to it a quart of good gravy, with some nutmeg, and two or three blades of mace ; stew it over a alow fire or stove till the rice be- gins to thicken ; then take it off, stir in a pound of butter, and when quite melt- ed, add the yolks of six eggs finely beaten ; butter a dish all over, put a little pepper and salt to the steaks, dip them in melted butter, and lay them in the but- tered dish; pour upon them the gravy which comes from them, and then the rice; pour over the yolks of three eggs finely beaten, send it to the oven, rather more than half an hour will be sufficient to bake it. Lamb Blanquette of.*—Roast a leg of lamb, and when cold take off all the skin and nerves, and cut it into pieces, all the same size and thickness, cut off the angles so as to make them nearly round, beat them with the handle of a knife, and put them into a saucepan, with some fried mushrooms, four ladiesful of veloute travaille, and a little pepper ; set the saucepan on the fire for a few minutes, thicken it with the yolks of two eggs; make it quite hot, and serve the blan- quette with sippets. Lamb’s Brains. * — Are generally reckoned more delicate than those of the sheep: they arc mostly prepared in ti c same manner as cab’s brains. Lasib’s Bruins en Mayonnaise.*—Taka eight lamb’s brains, and having washedLAM ( 300 LAM and prepared them for dressing, in llie same way as calf’s brains, blanch, and then drain them in a cloth ; lay them on a dish, with tongue tl l’£curlute, c\\t like cock’s- combs, between each brain; place hard eggs, glierkins, a pretty firm mayonnaise, and a glass of rnviqote in tlie centre, and garnish your dish with pieces of jelly. Lamb Breast of, with Cucumbers.—Cut the chine bone off from the breast, and put it to stew with a pint of gravy; when the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill; and then serve it in a dish on nicely stewed cucumbers. Lamb, Breast of, to be eaten Cold.— Bone a breast of lamb, then have a good forcemeat made of fat liveis, trufiles, &c. the same as for raised jties, and an ome- lette made of the white of eggs, and of the yolks, coloured with spinach juice ; when cold cut them in long slips, first lay some, forcemeat, then the slips of omelettes, with a few truffles laid between, and like- wise some fat livers; then spread all over with the forcemeat, roll it in a nap- kin, and put it to stew very gently for three or four Iiours; when done, let it stand in the liquor till cold, then take it out, and let it stand for two days before you cut it; trim it well, lay it on the dish, and garnish it with aspic jelly, minced and scattered round it. Lamb, Breast of, with Pease.—Braise a breast of lamb, and then having taken out the small bones, flatten it: when cold cut it into small pieces, and put them into the braise to heat, drain ana glaze them, and serve with pease (prepared as follow.s) poured over them : put some young pease into water, with a little fresh butter ; drain and put them into a saucepan, with a slice of ham, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, stew them gently over a slow fire; reduce them with two spoons- ful of espa^nole, and a Ijttle sugar. If you wish this dish white, use sauce tournee lor the pease, instead of espag- note. IjMfB {Breast of) Rolled in a Ragout. —Take a breast of lamb that is cut rather broad, take out all the bones, spread it well witli veal forcemeat, and roll it up. tying it well up with pack thread, amt let it stew gently in some good braise ; when well stewed take it out, put it in a moderate oven, and glaze it two or three times; then have a good ragout ready, pour it into a dish, and lay the lamb upon it. Lamb Chops en Casserole.—Take a loin of lamb, cut it into chops, egg them with yolk of egg on both side®, strew them over with bread crumbs, with mace, cloves, pepper, and salt, mixed; fry them of a liglit brown, and place them on a dish in form of a crown ; make a sauce of sweet herbs and parsley, chopped fine, and stewed in a little tliick gravy. Pour this sauce into the middle of the dish. Serve garnished with fried parsley. Lamb {Cromesquis of). — Take the same preparation as the croquettes ; roll into small balls; wrap eacli in a thin slice of ready dressed calf's udder; dip them in batter, and fry them, ^rve with fried parsley. Lamb {Croquettes of).*—Take a cold roasted leg (or any other part) of lamb, cut off the meat, clear away all the skin and sinews, and mioceit; mince also a little lamb fat or calf’s udder, and some mushrooms (ready dres=ed); mix all these togethe.’’, season them with nut- meg, salt, and pepper. Pot half a dozen ladiesful of veloute,a.nA four of jelly, into a saucepan; reduce it to rather less than half, and add the yolks of three eggs, stirring constantly; when the sauce is thickened, put in an ounce of butter, and stir till it is dissolved. Strain this sauce over the meat, stirring as before, then let it stand; when cold, stir it once more, and then with a desert-spoon lay it on a table in little heaps; when all the meat is thus disposed, take up each heap in your hand, and form them into what- ever shape you please, (either round, oval, pear-shaped, &e.); roll them in bread crumbs; beat up tliree yolks and two whole eggs, with a little salt and pepper; dip the croquettes in this, and bread them a second time ; take care that they are well covered ; fry them in a hot pan; when done, dram and place them in a pyramid on your dish, wiih fried parsley over them. Make, a sauce as follows; cut some mushrooms into dice, and put them into a saucepan, with an ounce of butter; give them a few turns over the fire, and then add a few scallions shred small; when they have had a turn or two, put in a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stork, and a b.Ay-leaf; reduce the sauce, and then take out the bay-leaf, and put in the yolks of four eggs, and another ounce of butter ; stir the whole till of the proper consistence, when pour it over the crooHC/fes. A little shred parsley may be added if you like. Lamb Cutlets in Aspic.* — Take six- teen lamb-cutlets, and lard them with moderate sized Inrdons of calPs udder, truffles, and tongue « I'ccarlate; line a saucepan with slices of bacon, lay yotir cutlets on them, cover them with bacoii, moisten with skimmings of consomme, add a carrot, two onions stuck with cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs; braise them, and when done, put them between two dishes, and let them cool;AM ( 301 ) LAM tiicn trim them so that the whole of the lardona may be seen; have ready an as- pic mould, in whicli ia some of the jelly, set; lay the cutlets, and a piece of tongue d /’ecur/a<ealternately on it, encouronne, put two or three spoonsful of jelly on it carefully, not to displace the cutlets; when you find the jelly is set, fill the mould : set it on ice ; turn the aspic out only the minute before it goes to table, pour into the well or hollow part a cold Llanquette of lamb, with some cold truffles sliced. Lamb Cutlets en Chemises.*—Having cut and trimmed your cutlets, cover them with a farce composed of fat livers, breasts of fowl or game, streaked bacon, all chopped very small, and mixed with the crumby of bread soaked in cream; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Take some thin slices of bacon ; spread Cat farce on them, lay a cutlet on each slice, roll it up, and tie it; bread these carefully, and roast them before a mode- rate fire, basting them with their own fat. Lamb’s Cutlets d la Constance.*—C\xi, and trim eighteen cutlets, season them with pepper only, put them into atossing pan, with a piece of glaze about the size of an egg, a ladleful of espagnole, two ladiesful of consommi ; half an hour be- fore they are sent to table, set the cutlets over a brisk fire, move them about to prevent their sticking; when the liquor is reduced to a jelly, take out the cutlets, and lay them on a dish e.7i couronne, tak- ing care they are covered with the jelly. Make a ragofit of livers, cocks’TCombs, and kidneys, put them'.into some becha- inelle, with some mushrooms ; fry the whole lightly, and pour them into the centre of the Qourmine of cutlets, and serve instantly. La.mb Cutlets Fricasseed.—Take a leg of lamb, and cut it into thin cutlets, across the grain, and put them into a stewpan. Make a sufficient quantity of good stock with the bones, shank, &c.to cover the cutlets, put it into the stew- pan, and cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some clove and mace lied m a muslin bag, and let them stew gently for ten minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim oil the fat. and take out the sweet herbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, season it with salt, and a little cayenne pepper ; add a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels; some forcemeat balls, the yolks of three eggs, beat up in half a pint of cream, and some grated nutmeg; keep stirring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, and lay them on a dish. Pour the sauce over them ; garnish with beet-root and lemon- Lamb’s Acrrs Stuffed.*—Take a dozen, lamb’s ears, soak, and scald them; vyhen cold, dry, singe, and cook them in a blunc for an hour and a half, drain and fill them with a farce cuite, put the ears into melted butter, then roll them in bread-crumbs; break four eggs into the butter, with salt and pepper, beat all up together, dip the ears into this, then roll them again in bread-crumbs, and fry them of a nice colour; take care your pan is not too hot. Drain the ears well, and serve them on fried parsley. Lamb’s Ears with Sorrel.—Take about a dozen of lamb’s ears, (this quantity will make a small dish), and braise them till tender. Take a large handful of sorrel, chop it a little, and stew it in a spoonful of slock, with a small bitof butter. Pour in a small ladle of cnllis, some nutmeg grated, and a little pepper and salt, stew itaminute, twist up the ears nicely, and serve. Lamb, Epieramme o/.*—Take the fore- quarter of a lamb, take off the shoulder, and cut the neck so that the cutlets are not injured; dress it (tbe neck) in the same manner as shoulder of lamb with cucumbers (see that article), and when done, press it between two dishes to make it smooth ; let it cool, and then cut it into pieces rather larger than the cutlets; make them all of the same size and shape (oval), rub them all over with a'sauce d I’atelel., dip them in melted butter ; bread, and lay thern on a dish ; cut, and trim the cutlets, season them with salt and pepper, and put them into a pan with melted butter over them : take the shoulder (which has been roasted) cut off all the meat, mince, and make it into a hlanquette; keep it hot in the bain marie. Just before dinner time, broil the pieces of the neck, fry and glaze the cutlets, lay them alternately on a disb en couronne, in the centreof which pour the blanqziette, and serve the whole immediatily. Lamb’s Feet en Cartouches.*—Prepare some sweet herbs enpapillotes, and hav- ing conked the feet in a blanc, put them to the herbs whilst they are hot, give them two or three boils; squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and leave them to cool. Cut some pieces ol paper, each large enough to hold one of the feet; rub oil over ihe inside, lay the feet on the pieces of oiled paper, with the herbs put round and in the liollow parts, wrap each in a thin slice of bacon, over wliich fold the paper so as to enclose them completely; broil them thus overLAM ( 302 ) LAM a slo\r, but dear fire for half an hour. Serve them either dry or with clear gravy. Lamb’s Feet en Gratin*—Take a dozen of lamb’s feet, and set them to stew d la braise, with eighteen or twenty small onions; whilst they are stewing, makesi gruiin, with some bread-crumbs, a little scraped cheese, a bit of butter, and the yolks of three eggs; mix the ■whole together, and spread it over the bottom of your dish, setting it upon a stove, or on a chafing dish over a slow fire, till it adheres to the bottom ; then put the lamb’s feet, and the small onions intermixed, upon the gratin; let the whole simmer a little over the fire; drain oil'the fat, and serve a good sauce over. Lamb’s Feet en Marinade.*—The feet being blanched as usual, soak them in a marinade, or (in case you have none) in half a glass of vinegar, with salt and pep- per. After they have lain a sufficient time, drain, dip them in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour ; then lay them on a cloth to drain. Serve with fried parsley over them. Lamb’s Feet Stvffed,*—Prepare your feet in the usual manner, but before you blanch them, fill them with a fowl que- nelle, with the addition of a little grated nutmeg, and sweet herbs shred small, sew this farce in, and then put the feet into boiling water for five minutes; let them- cool, dry and singe them. Make a thick Mane, put the feet in it, and sim- ■mer them for about two hours, then drain, trim, and serve them with a green sauce Hollandoise. Lamb’s />y.—Fry it of a nice colour, and serve witli a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Lamb (Grass) Sleaks.—Cut a loin of lamb into steaks, season them with pep- per and salt, and fry them; when done, put them intoa dish, pour out the butter. Shake a little flour into the pan, put in a little beef stock, a little catsup and walnut pickle. Boil this up, stirring it all the tinle. Put in the steaks, and give them a shake round; serve them to •table, garnished with crisped parsley. Lasib Hashed d I’Anglaise.*—Put a slice of butler intoa stewpan, with a few mushrooms cut in pieces, and a bunch of herbs; shake them over the fire, ■with a little flour, moistening with stock, then let the mushrooms stew till the sauce is nearly consumed ; next put in some small slices of cold roast lamb, with the yolks of three eggs beat up in milk. Thicken the whole over the fire, taking care that it does not boil; season to your taste, and, before serving, add a sprinkling of vinegar. Lamb’s Head*—Bone a head as far as the eye, take out the under jaw, soak, and then scald it; when cola, dry and singe it; tie it up in slices of bacon, and cook it in a blanc. In about two hours take it out, drain, and untie it. Serve it quite plain, or with a ragofit made with the liverj sweetbread, feet, mushrooms, all done in a blanc. Lamb’s Head, to Dress.—Boil a head and pluck tender, taking care not to do the liver too much; take out the head, and cut it in all directions with a knife. Then grate some nutmeg over it, and lay it on a dish, before a good fire. Take some bread crumbs and some sweet herbs rubbed, a little lemon-peel, finely chopped, and a very small quantity of pepper and salt. Strew these over the head, and baste it with a little butter; then throw on a little flour, and just as it is done, baste and dredge it. Take half the liver, the lights, the heart and tongue, and chop them very small, with six or eight spoonsful of gravy or water. First shake some flour over the meat, and stir it together; then put into the gravy or water, a large piece of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, and the gravy that runs from the head into the dish. Simmer them all togetlier a few minutes, and add half a spoonful of vinegar. Put it into your dish, and place the head in the middle of the mincemeat. Have ready the other half of the liver cut thin, with some slices of broiled bacon, and lay them round the head. Garnish with lemon. Lamb’s Head, Conde Fashion. — Steir it in a white braise, and serve it with a sauce made of verjuice, the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, a bit of butter, chopped parsley, scalded, and a little nutmeg. Lamb’s Head jl/zneerf.—Split the head in half, and blanch it with the liver, lights, and heart; then chop the he.art, &c. and add to them a little parsley, chopped very fine, a small quantity of shredded lemon-peel, and some culiis; stew it gently till done, and season it, Wash the head over, and bake it gently till very tender. When it is to be served up, colour it with a salamander. Clean the brains in warm ivater, wHpe them dry, dip them in yolks of egg .and bread- crumbs, and fry them in boiling lard. Put the mince under the head, and the fried brains round it, with rashers of bacon. La.mb's Head Sfctced.—Take out the brains, and make n farce of them ; boil it, and when cold cut it into pieces ; then mince some lamb and beef suet together irith the brains; add some grated bread.(3< }) LAM LAM Reason with salt, pepper and sweet herbs minced small, add four or five raw eggs. Fill the lamb’s head with these; then put it in a siewpan, and let it stew with some good stock ; make the remainder of the mincemeat into balls, and serve with the stewed head. Lamb’s Head Stuffed*—Soak the head well in boiling water, and then put it on the fire till half done; take out all the bones, and the brains, make a farce with streaked bacon, fat livers, the tongue, brains, and morels, all minced very small, and united with veal ; put this farce into the head, bread it all_ oyer, and put it into a mild oven; when it is of a nice colour, take it out, and serve it quite hot, with veal gravy. Lamb (House) Hind Quarter of to Force.—Cut off the shank, and with the knife, raise the thick part of the meat from the bone; make a forcemeat with some suet, a few scalded oysters cut small, some grated bread, a little pound- ed mace, pepper, and salt, mixed up with the yolks of two eggs ; put this force- meat under the part where the meat has been raised up,'and under the kidney; let it be half roasted, then put it into’ a stewpan, with a quart of mutton gravy ; cover it, and let it stew very gently; when it is sufficiently done, take it up and keep it hot; skim off the fat, and strain off the gravy ; add to it a glass of Madeira, one spoonful of walnut catsup, half a lemon, a little cayenne, half a pint of stewed oysters, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the lamb. Lamb (House) Steaks Brown, — Dip them into egg, then season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chopped parsley; fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy, with butter and flour; add a little red wine, some catsup, and some oysters; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. You may add, if you please, palates stewed, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs. Lamb (House) Steaks White, — Let them stew in milk and water till they are quite tender, with a small bunch of sweet herbs, a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some white pepper, and some mace; have ready some veal gravy, some mush- room-powder, salt, a little cream mixed up with a small quantity of flour; shake the steaks round in this sauce, and just before they are taken up, put in a few pickled mushrooms. Lamb, Leg of, Boiled.—It should be boiled in a cloth, that it may look as white as possible. Cut the loin in steaks, dip them in egg, strew them over with. bread-crumbs, and fry them a nice brown, serve them round the dish, and garnish with dried or fried parsley ; serve with spinach to eat with it. Lasib (Leg of) to Force.—Take a leg of lamb, and with a sharp knife cut out all the meat, but leave the skin whole, and the fat upon it. Make the meat you cut out into the following forcemeat To two pounds of meat, put tvvopoundsof beef suet, finely chopped; take away all the skin and suet from the meat, and mix it with four spoonsful of grated bread, eight or ten cloves, five or six large blades of mace, dried and finely beaten, half a large nutmeg grated, a little pepper and salt, some lemon-peel cut fine, a very little thyme, some parsley, and four eggs; mix all these together, and put it into the skin ; makeit as near as you can into the same shape it was before; sew it up, roast it, basting it well with butter. Cut the loin into steaks, and nicely fry them. Lay the leg on the dish, and the steaks cut from the loin, round it, with stewed cauliflowers all round, upon the steaks. Pour a pint of good gravy into the dish, and then serve. (Leg of) en Saticissons.— Bone a leg of lamb, and take out above half the meat; simmer it in butter a minute or two; then mince it with calf’s udder, grated bacon, bread, soaked in cream, parsley, scallions, truffles, season it with salt and spices; put this into the re- mainder of the leg, draw the skin over, roll it up into the form of a sausage; wrap it in a cloth, tie it tight, and boil it in stock, with half a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few carrots and onions sliced. When done, serve it with any sauce you please. Lamb (Leg-o/) Stejued with Pease.— Take a leg of house lamb, and stew it ia some stock or beef braise. When nicely done, take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it three or four times; then have some good young pease, well stewed, witli some good bechamelle sauce; pour them on the dish, and lay the leg on the top, and cut the loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire with some butter and some strong gravy; when nearly done, shake them well in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the pease, and serve them hot to table. Lamb’s Livers.*—Have two lambs’ plucks, cut the lights into dice, and the liver into thin slices; fry them lightly over a small fire in butter; they should be scarcely more tlian browned; drain away half the butter; add a little parsley and a few mushrooms, shred small; sea- son tliem with salt, pepper, and lemon- juice and serve them very hot.LAM LAM ( 304 ) Lamb (Lorn of) a la Per/^or</.—Neatly trim a loin of lamb; warm it over the fire in a stewpan, with a little oil, mixed with some green onions and mushrooms chopped, salt, and pepper; then change the lamb into another stewpan, well lined with slices of veal, seasoned, find seven or eight truffles sliced, covered with thin rashers of bacon, and half a lemon, (;ut in pieces; let the whole stew over a slow fire, moistening with stock; and when done, skim the fat from the sauce, pass it through a sieve, place the loin on a dish with the truffles, and pour the sauce over. Lamb {Pascaline of).* — Scald four lambs’heads, bone the jaws, and cut off the ends of the noses. Scald also the feet, singe them, and then cook them all together in a blanc; when done, drain them, lay the heads in a dish ; fry your feet lightly in a little butter, with the yolks of four eggs, a little parsley, and a few mushrooms. Have ready a lamb’s pluck, dressed as directed, (see Lamb’s Livers) ; and having laid the feet, with their sauce, in the dish with the heads, place the rest round them, and serve them. Lamb Pasty.—Bone the lamb, cut it into four pieces; lay beef suet at the bottom of the pasty; season the Iamb with pepper, salt, thyme chopped, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; lay it upon the suet, making a high border about it; then turn over your sheet of paste, close it up, and bake it; when it is baked, put in vinegar, the yolks of eggs well beaten, and some good gravy. Lamb Pie, the German fVay.~C\xt a quarter of lamb into pieces, and lard them with small lardons of bacon, sea- soned with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and a bay-leaf; add fat bacon pounded, small onions, nutmeg, and sweet herbs; put these into the pie, and let it bake for three hours; when baked, cut it open, skim off' all the fat, pour in a ragofit of oysters, and serve hot. Lamb Pie (a Savou7'y one).—Cut the lamb into pieces, and season it with pep- per, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg, finely beaten. Make a good puff'-paste crust, put the meat into it, with a few lamb’s stones and sweetbreads, seasoned the same as the meat. Then put in some oysters and forcemeat balls, the yolks of hard eggs, and the tops of asparagus, about two inches long, first boiled green. Put butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and let it bake for an hour and a lialf in a quick oven. In the mean time, take a pint of gravy, tlie oyster liquor, a gill of red wine, and a little grated nutmeg. ML\ all together wilh the yolks of two or three eggs, finely beaten, and keep stirring it the same way all the time. When it boils, pour it into the pie, put on the lid again, aud serve it to table. Lamb Pie (Sweet).— Cut your lamb into pieces, and season with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all well beaten: make a good puff-paste crust, line a dish with it, then lay iu your meat; strew on it some stoned raisins and currants, nicely washed, and some sugar; then lay on some forcemeat balls made sweet, and, in the summer, some artichoke bottoms boiled, and in the winter scalded grapes; add boiled Spa- nish potatoes, cut in pieces, tuandied citron, candied orange and lemon-peel, a few blades of mace; put butter on the top, close your pie, and bake it. Have ready against it comes out of the oven, a caudle made thus : take a pint of white wine, and mix in the yolks of three eggs; stir it well together over the fire one way, till it is thick; then take it off^ stir in a sufficient quantity of sugar, to sweeten it, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon ; pour it hot into the pie ; close it up again. Send it hot to table. Lamb (Quarter of) en Crepine.—Cot three onions into dice, and fry them in lard ; when nearly done, add a few sha- lots and parsley, shred small, basil, salt, spice, four eggs, two spoonsful of cream, and half a pint of lamb’s blood; simmer these over the fire till pretty thick : have ready a quarter of lamb, boned, taking care not to injure the skin ; put the above fu7-ce in the place of the bone, roll it up in a caul, and roast it, basting with but- ter and bread crumbs ; pass a salamander over, to colour it; serve it with a duck sauce. hkua (Quarter of) with Herbs.—Roll a bit of butter in flour, and boil it a mo- ment with a few bread crumbs, chopped parsley, shalots, green thyme, salt, and pepper, a glass of white wine, and stock in proportion; the lamb being roasted, take up the shoulder, and pour this sauce between, in the_ s.ame manner as you generally do Seville orange, and pepper and salt. Lamb (Quarter of) Roasted and Lard- ed.—Take a fore quarter of lamb, lard the upper side of the joint with lean bacon, and sprinkle the other side thick with bread crumbs; then cover with paper to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. AVhen nearly done, take it from tlie fire, and cover the part tb.at has not been larded, a second time, with bread crumbs, seasoned with salt, and parsley chopped very fine; then put the lamb again before a bright fire toLAM ( 305 ) lam brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. LAMB (RagotU o/).—Cut the knuckle bone oft' a fore quarter of lamb, lard it with little thin pieces of bacon; flour it, and then put it into a stewpan, with a quart of stock or good gravy, a bundle of herbs, a little mace, two or three_ cloves, and a little whole pepper. Cover it close, and let it stew pretty fast for h.alf an hour. Pour oft' all the liquor, strain it; keep the lamb hot in the pot till the sauce is ready. Take half a pint of oysters, flour them, fry them brown, drain off clear all the fat that they were fried in, and skim oft all the fat from the gravy. Then pour it to the oysters, put in an anchovy, and two spoon sful of either red or white wine. Boil all together till it is reduced to just sufficient for sauce ; add some fresh mushrooms, and some pickled, and the juice of half a lemon, or a spoonful of pickle. Lay the lamb in the dish, pour the sauce over it, and garnish with lemon. La JIB, to Roast or Boil.—r A quarter of an hour is generally allowed to each pound of meat; a leg of lamb of five pounds will therefore take an hour and a quarter to roast or boil, the other joints in the same proportion; serve either with sa- lad, pickles, brocoli, cauliflowers, French beans, pease, potatoes, or cucumbers, raw or stewed. Lamb S«Mee.—Roll a piece of butter in bread crumbs, shred parsley and sha- lots, and boil it in a little stock and white wine, (equal quantities), a few minutes are sufficient; squeeze in a little lemon or orange juice. Lajib {Shoulders of) and Cucumbers.* —Bone the shoulders to the knuckle, lard the inner part with bacon rolled in I>epper, salt, and spices; tie them up in rather a long form, and braise them the same as d la Polonnoise; drain them when done, untie and glaze them ; pre- pare_ some cucumbers d la creme., on which lay the lamb, and serve. Endive, toraata sauce, or any other sauce you may choose, is equally good with the lamb. Lajib {Shoulders of) a la Dauphine.— Bone a shoulder of lamb to the knuckle. Make a farce with truffles or mush- rooms, fat livers, parsley, shalots, (all chopped small), grated bacon, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and two yolks of eggs; roll this into the shoulder, and braise it with a little stock, a few slices of bacon, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Serve it on stewed spinach. Lamb {Slices of) Fried.—Cut some cold lamb into slices, season and fry them; when done, put them in a ^|sh, and pour over them melted butter ; then put a little flour into a saucepan, with some beef stock, and a little walnut pickle; let this boil, and keep stirring. Serve the slices of lamb in this sauce, ana garnish with fried parsley. Lamb Steaks Fried.—them of the nicest brown ; when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crisped parsley. Or you may season them and broil them in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, according to taste. Lamb’s Stones, Fricassee of {Brown).— Skin them, dip them in yolk of egg or flour, fry them; thicken some gravy with flour, mushroom powder, salt, grat- ed nutmeg, white pepper, grated lemon- peel ; boil this up, put in the lamb’s stones, heat them through; add force- meat balls fried, and pickled mushrooms, or lemon-juice. Lamb’s Stones, Fricassee of, {fVhite). —Skin them, and stew them in some veal gravy; when they are nearly done, add to them a little cream, some stewed forcemeat balls, morels, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; just before they are taken up, add a few pickled mush- rooms. Lamb’s Stones and Sweetbreads Fri- casseed.—Have ready some lamb’s stones blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Then take two or three sweetbreads, flour them, and if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together with a few oys- ters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off', and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus tops, about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, a couple of shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer for ten minutes; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a good thickness, without boiling. Garnish with lemon. Lamb Sweetbreads. * — These parts of lamb are generally dressed the same as veal sweetbreads; the following, how- ever, is rather belonging to those of lamb; butter a saucepan, put in the sweetbreads, and two spoonsful of jelly; cover them with a buttered paper; put fire above and below; stew them thus for half an hour, then serve them with a pttree of fowls, or endive, or any other sauce you think proper. Lamb’s Sweetbreads.— Blanch your sweetbreads, and put them a little time into cold water. Then put them into a stewpan, with a ladleful of stock, some pepper, salt, a small bunch of young 2 D 3LAM LAM ( 306 ) onions, and a blade of mace. Stir in a bit of butter, with some flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eisgs beaten in cream, with a little minc- ed parsley and grated nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus tops, and add them to the other things. It must not boil after the cream is put in; but make it hot, and stir it well all the time. Be very careful that it does not curdle. Add some lemon or orange-juice, then serve. You may if you choose, add young pease or French beans, boiled of a beautiful colour. Lamb Sweetbreads {Hot Pie of)*— Take eight Iamb sweetbreads, soak out all the blood, and cut them into small thin pieces ; trim them all to the same size and shape. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mush- rooms, four of truffles, and one shalot, all minced small, salt.nutmegand spice ; ut the sweetbreads into this, (when the utter is melted), and simmer them twenty minutes over a moderate fire, turning them frequently, that both sides may be equally done. Make a good raised crust, at the bottom and round the sides of which put some good farce or godiveau; lay the sweetbreads cold on this; pour the herbs, &c., they were cooked in over them, with two bay- leaves, and some slices of bacon. Lay the top crust on the pie, and having ornamented it, dm-ez, and put it in a brisk oven ; as soon as the top is of a light colour, cut round the edge, and cover it with a large piece of paper folded four times. An hour and a half will be sufficient to bake it, then take off the lid, the bay-leaves and bacon ; drain away the fat, and pour in some espagnole and truffles. Lamb’s Thf/s.—Braise or boil the tails, and make a light batter of flour, one egg, a little salt, white wine, and a little oil. Fry them of a nice brown colour, and serve them, garnished with fried parsley. You may serve them with what sauce you think proper. Lamb’s Tendons loith Asparagus.*— Take two breasts of Iamb, braise them, and when done, lay them between two dishes, with a weight on the top; as soon as they are cold, cut them in pieces, leav- ing on the end of the bone, like cutlets ; put them into a tossing-pan, with a piece of glaze and a spoonful of consomme ; simmer them till they are completely covered with the glaze. Have ready a bundle of asparagus, choose the most ten- der heads; boil them in the usual way, in salt and water, for about ten minutes ; skim, and when done, drain them on a sieve; then fry them lightly in a little butter, allcinande, and a small quantity of sugar; dish the tendons ew couri/nne, with the asparagus heads in the centre; glaze and serve them. Lamb Throats (Coquilles o/).*—Soak some lamb’s throat sweetbreads, the same as those of a calf; put them into a stewpan, with a little butter and lemon- juice; blanch, and let them stand ; when cold, cut them in thin slices as for llan- qiieites,a.A&some mushrooms and truffles, also sliced. Boil a piece of glaze, about the size of a walnut, with a little alle- mande and a spoonful of consomme ; mix the whole together, add a small quantity of butter, and some lemon-juice; put this preparation into scollop shells, strew bread crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; put a small piece of butter on each, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Serve them hot. Lamb’s Tongpces*—Are [dressed in the same manner as sheep’s tongues; they are considered as a greater delicacy. Lambu la Villeroy.*—Take two breasts of lamb, braise them, and when done lay them between two dishes to keep them flat whilst cooling. As soon as they are quite cold, cut each breast into five pieces; take off all the skin and trim them, soak them in some allemande; let them get quite cold again, and then bread them; dip them in an omelet; bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. Place them on your dish, en couroime, with a clear aspic. LAMPREYS.— Lampreys resemble eels; there are river and sea lampreys; they must be scaled in the same manner as tench, and cut into pieces; then floured and fried. They may also be broiled and served with capers; or if you serve them as a side-dish, mix some oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and mustard, together over the fire; and serve it as sauce for the lampreys. Lampreys may also be stewed like carp, and served, en matelotte, as a side-dish. Lamprey.*—The lamprey is a species of eel, but thicker, shorter, and less brown than that fish; they are seldom to be had in London, and are not very plenty in any part of England. They should be chosen fat, and are generally cooked in the same manner as eels. Lampreys, Broiled.—tVash them very clean in warm water; cut them into pieces; melt some butter,and roll them m it; make a seasoning with bread- cruniDS grated, some pepper, salt, nut- meg, and sweet herbs chopped very fine ; after the fish has been well rubbed in the butter, dip it into the seasoning, and broil it over a clear, gentle fire.LAM ( 307 ) L A R Saucetake some colouring for sauce, add an onion cut small, parsley, mush- rooms, capers, an anchovy, minced fine, some pepper and salt; add a little fish- broth, and thicken it with some fish cullis; boil it, and strain it over the fish. Lamprey, Broiled.—Cut a lamprey into three pieces, and put it into a pan with white or red wine, a little butter, whole pepper, salt, sliced onions, car- rots, pai'snips, thyme, bay-leaf, and cloves. Before the fish is quite done, drain and dip it in butter; cover it with bread-crumbs, and broil it slowly, baste itivith oil or butter. Serve it dry. Lampreys, to Fry.—Cut ofiF the heads, and save the blood, that runsfrom them; then wash them well in warm water, dry tliem in a cloth, fry them in a little fresh butter till half done; pour off the fat, and put in a little white wine; shake the pan round, put in a little whole pepper, nutmeg, salt, sweet herbs, and a bay- leaf, a few capers, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and the blood ; shake the pan round frequently, and cover them close. When tney are done, take them out; strain off the sauce; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the fish. Lamprey d V Italienne. — Put two onions, chopped very small, into a stew- pan, with apiece of butter, a spoonful or two of oil, a bunch of sweet herbs, two cloves of spice, two of garlic, the fish cut in pieces, the blood, .md a pint of red wine; set these on a brisk fire, and boil till the liquor is reduced ; take out the herbs, and then keep it on till done. Squeeze orange or lemon juice over, and serve. Lamprey, Matelote of.*—Take two lampreys, put them into boiling water; take out the entrails, and cut the fish into pieces. Make a roux, into which put the lampreys (except the heads and tails); give them a few turns; then add white wine, small onions, (previously tossed up in a little butter)’, some mush- rooms, a bunch of sweet herbs seasoned, salt and pepper; stew these, skimming frequently. When ready for table, put tiie blood of the lampreys to the matelote, and serve it; garnish with fried bread and cray-fish. Lampreys to Bof.—Scald and scrape them, take out the insides, especially the black string;, season with pepper, salt, and mace : put themintoa pan, and bake them in a slow oven: when they are done, take them out of the gravy, put them in a clean pan, and cover them witli clarified butter. Lamprey au Restaurant.*—Cut yotir fish in pieces, put it into a stewpan with some melted butter trufiles and morels, cut in thin slices; when they are nearly done, add red wine, salt, pepper, a bit oi sugar about the size of an almond, and some fried bread; finish the dressing, and serve them in their gravy. Lampreys, Stewed. — Clean the fish very carefully, then remove the carti- lage which runs down the back, and sea- son with a few cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a small stewpan, with very strong beef gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry ; cover it close, and let it stew till tender ; then take out the lamprey and keep hot; while you boil up ihe liquor with two or three anchovies chop- ped, and some flour and butter, strain the gravy through a sieve; add lemon- juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. LAPWIN GS.—They should be roasted and served in the same manner as wild- duck. LARD (i/o^’a).—The lard should be carefully melted ina jar, put into a kettle of water, and boiled; run it into bladders that have been particularly well cleaned. It is best to have the bladders small, as the lard will keep better, for, after the air reaches it, it becomes rank. Whilst it is melting, put in a sprig of rosemary. This being a very useful article in fry- ing fish, it should be prepared with great care. Mixed with batter, it makesafine crust. LARKS.—These delicate little birds are in high se.ison in November. When they are thoroughly picked, gutted, and cleansed, truss them; do them over with the yolk of egg, and then roll them in bread-crumbs; spit them on a lark spit, and fasten that on to a larger spit, ten or fifteen minutes will be sufficient time to roast them in before a quick fire; whilst they are roasting, baste them with fresh butter, and sprinkle them with bread-crumbs till they are well covered with them. Fry some grated bread in butter, set it to drain before the fire, that it may harden. Serve the crumbs in the dish under the lai-ks, and garnish with slices of lemon. . Larks.—Roast them, larded and co- vered with bacon ; or you may only cover one half with bacon, and lard the other. Leave in the trails, and put under them roasted bread to receive what falls. For a side-dish, they may be served a variety of ways. Larks en Caisscs.—Pick, bone, and stuff your larks ; have ready some small paper cases, dip them in warm oil, form the larks into balls, and put one, with a little farce underneath, into each case. Set them on a baking tin, covered with aLAR L AR 308 buttered paper, to prevent their drying whilst baking. When done, place them in a dish, drain ofl' all the fat, squeeze lemon-juice, and pour a little espagnole over them. Larks en Chtpolata<*—Have ready some roasted chesnuts, mushrooms, sau- sages, and slices of streaked bacon; have a little butter in a saucepan, put in the bacon, and when they have had a few turns, put in the sausages; as soon as they are done, put in eight or ten larks; when they are pretty firm, take all three articles out, pour away half the butter, and put in the mushrooms, give them a few boils; then stir in a spoonful of flour, pour on them a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, a little pepper, and a very small quantity of salt; give them a few boils, and then replace the bacon, sausages, and larks, with the chesnuts ; these must only boil once ; then take them out, and serve them. Larks d la Ghioise.*—Toss up a few di’y mushrooms in a little lard, moisten them with stock, veal gravy, and a glass of champagne; simmer your larks in this for an hour, and then let them cool. Grate a little Parmesan cheese on a dish that will bear the fire ; mix a small quan- tity of grated bread with it, and place your larks on this layer of cheese ; pour over them the sauce they were dressed in, strew grated cheese and bread on it, and set it in a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour. Larks au Gratin.—Pick and bone a dozen and a half of fat larks; season them with salt and pepper, stufl'them with a farce, put some of the farce in a dish, lay the larks on it with fried bread between each, lay slices of bacon over the whole, and put it into the oven for twenty mi- nutes; then drain oft'the fat, and serve with a well-seasoned espagnole, \j\ws.s, in Jelly.—Put several into the jelly in what manner you tliink best, taking care that tliey lie separate._ You may do any small birds you please in this manner. Larks in a Minute.*—Put some but- ter, slices of streaked bacon, and a few sausages, into a stewpan; wlien quite hot, put in eight or ten larks ; take tliem out again as soon as they are firm; pour away half the butter, and put into the pan a few mushrooms; give them aboil up, and then add a little flour, a glass of wiiite wine, a little water, very small quantities ofpenper and salt; in a few mi- nutes put the larks in again ; give the whole one boil, and then serve them. Lark Pie d la Pit/iivier.s.*—Take five or six dozen of larks, pick and singe them; split open the backs, take out the intestines and mince them; take a pound and a half of good farce, and hav- ing pounded the mince with it, season, and stuff'the larks with it. Make a raised crust, at the bottom of which put a layer of the farce ; ivrap each lark in a thinslice of ham, and place them on it, with a bit of butter; cover the whole with slices of bacon, and bay-leaves; put on the top-crust, and bake the pie for two or three hours, then take it out, and let it stand till cold. Larks aicxPoires.—Pickthe larks, and truss them as closely cis possible ; cut off" one leg; season them with pepper and salt; make a forcemeat as follows:— Take a veal sweetbread, as much suet, some mushrooms, and some morels, a little lemon-peel, and some sweet herbs ; chop them very fine ; mix them with the yolkof an egg ; wrap every lark in some of this forcemeat, and shape it like a pear, leaving the leg for the stalk ; wash them over with the yolk of au egg, and strew them over with bread-crumbs; bake them in a moderate oven of a fine brown, and serve them without sauce. Larks d laProven<}ale.*—Y\cV, singe, and empty the larks ; mince a few truf- fles and morels, put them into a stewpan with a glass of consomme, half a glass of whi te wine, salt, and pepper; boil these for about a quarter of an hour, then put in your larks, and simmer them slowly for five and forty minutes; put in a little butter worked with flour, and stir it fre- quently to thicken it. Larks {RagoiU of).—Fry your lar'ks with an onion stuck with cloves, and a few truffles and mushrooms; pour off the fat, and shake over them a little flour. Put to them some good gravy, and stew them till they are sufficiently done. If there is any fat skim it oft'; put to it some lemon-juice, and pepper and salt to your taste. Larks, Ragout of.—Pick, singe, and bone the larks; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and scallions, aslicc of ham, and a scalded sweetbread cut in pieces; simmer them a minute or two, and then add a little stock, a glass of wine, pepper, and salt; when the larks are nearly done, and the liquor reduced, take out the ham, parsley, and scallions. Serve them with any stewed greens or a cullis. Larks Raised Pic, hot.—Mak"e a raised crust in the usual way, lay sonie/nrce at the bottom of it, place some harks (boned) on it, fill up the pie with the same, cover and bake it When done, take off the309 ) LEM LEA top crust, draw away what fat there may be, pour a rich ragoOt into it, season it very highly, and serve it open. Larks Roasted d la Frantoise. —Pick and singe the larks, but do not empty them; wrap them in slices of bacon, fasten them on a spit, and roast them; lay a toast in the dripping-pan under them; serve the larks on this toast when •lone. ^ . L.IRKS, Salmi o/.*—Having properly prepared your larks, cut them into quar- ters ; take the livers and gizzards, bruise them, and then boil them In alittlestockj red wine, with shalots minced, salt, and pepper; in about a quarter of an hour put your birds into this, and simmer tliem an hour; serve the salmi with fried bread round. , LAV END E R Fmegar.*—Ta\!B half a pound of lavender flowers, dry them quickly, put them into a jug with a gal- lon of the best white wine vinegar; set it in the sun for a week, covered close ; then draw it oft’, press the dregs, filter it through blotting-paper and bottle it; keep them closely corked. LAVER.—This plant grows on the roc’KS near the sea in the west of Eng- land, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Rub some of it in a dish, and put it over a lamp, with a bit of butter and the squeeze of a Seville orange ; stir it till hot; it is eaten with roast meat. LaZAGNES.*—The only difference between these and nouilles is, that the lazagnes are cut rather larger. Great care must be taken not to dress them too much. Lazagne Soup, with Cheese.—The la- sagne is a paste, resembling macaroni; the only oifterence consists in its being flat, somewhat like a bean, instead of being in pipes. Wash and boil it instock, like rice, with a little salt, drain it in a cullender; lay some of the lasagne at the bottom of the_soup-dish with some pieces of butter ' on it; strew grated Parmesan or Gruyere I cheese over them ; then put a layer ef lazagnes, and so on, alternately, till the dish be full, taking care, however, that the last layer is cheese ; colour it with a I salamander, pour some good stock over, ( and serve it. I LEAVES, to Green, for ornamenting Fruit.—Take small leaves of a pear-tree, ( keep them close stopped in a pan of ver- I juice and water : give them a boil in some ! syrup of apricots; put them between two j pieces of glass to dry; smooth and cut I them into the shape of apricot-leaves I (the leaves should be procured with I stalks); stick them about tlie apricots or any other preserved fruit; but the leaves must be cut in the shape of the leaf which belongs to the fruit you orna- ment. LEEKS.—Leeks are most generally used for soups, ragofits, and other made dishes, they are very rarely brought to table; in which case dress them as fol- lows Put them into the stock-pot till about three parts done ; then take them out, drain, and soak them in vinegar seasoned with pepper, salt, and cloves; drain them again, stuff the hearts with a farce, dip them in batter, and fry them. {Scotch) Soup.—Put the water in which a leg of mutton has been boiled intoastewpan, with a quantity of chopped leeks, pepper, and salt; simmer tlrem an hour ; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into'the soup, and let it simmer gently over a slow fire, taking great care that it does not burn at the bottom. Leek Soup.*—Wash and cut some leeks in pieces, about an inch in length, give them a few turns over the fire in some butter; then add broth to them, and when they have simmered in it for about thr^ quarters of an hour, soak your bread in the usual manner, and pour on it the leeks and soup. Leeks with Tbaifs.—Take a dozen very fine leeks, split them nearly in half, and wash them well; tie them like asparagus, and put them in a stewpan of boiling water, with a handful of salt; when well done, put them on a sieve to drain; in the meantime make two thick toasts, well butter them, serve the leeks upon them. LEMONADE.—To a gallon of spring wa- ter add some cinnamon and cloves, penty of orange and plenty of lemon-juice, and a bit of the peel of each; sweeten well with loaf sugar, and whisk it with the whites of six eggs, and the yolk of one ; give it a boil, and then let it simmer for ten minutes ; then run it through a jelly-bag, and let it stand till cold, before it is drank. Lemonade.*—Take four lemons, pare the ripd as thin as possible; squeeze them into a quart of water, add half a pound of fine sugar, and let it stand two or three hours, then pass it through ajelly- bag into decanters. Lemo.nade to be made a day before wanted.—Pare two dozen of good sized lemons as thin as possible, put eight of the rinds into three quartsof hot, not boil- ing water, and cover it over for three or four hours; rub some fine sugar on the lemons to obtain the essence, and put it jnto a China bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons ; add to it one pound and half of fine sugar, then put the waterLEM LEM ( 310 ) to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix it well together, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfect- ly clear. Lemonade that has the flavour and appearance of Jelly. —Pare as thin as possible six lemons, and a couple of Se- ville oranges, and steep them in a quart of hot water for four hours ; boil one pound and a quarter of loaf sugar in three pints of water, and skim it; add the liquor of the six lemons, and of the two oranges, to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons, stir the whole well, and run through a jelly-bag till clear; then add a little orange water if you like the flavour, and if necessary, add more sugar. It will keep well if properly corked. Lejionade and tVine,*—Put the peel and juice of two lemons into a pan, and pour on them a pint of boiling water, a pound of sugar, and two bottles of good Burgundy; let these stand half an hour, then strain it as usual. LEMON Bonbons. * — Take two pounds of the best lumpsugar, clarify and boil it to caramel; but just before it reaches that point, grate the rind of a lemon and put in it; in the meanwhile melt a little butter; skim, and pour it oflfclear; take a spoonful of this butter, and rub it with your hand over a copper- plate or marble slab, on which pour the caramel sugar; then have a sword blade, take an end in each hand, and impress lines in the sugar about an inch apart; then impress similar lines across the first, so as to form small cakes; this operation should be performed as quickly as possible, lest the sugar should cool be- fore the whole is marked; when however all is done, pass the blade carefully be- tween tlie sugar and the slab, lay it on sheets of white paper, and when perfectly cold, separate the bonbons, and wrap each in paper; keep them in a dry place. Lemon Brandy.—Put the peel of two lemons into a bottle of brandy, let it stand for four and twenty hours, then strain it; boil two ounces of loaf sugar in a quarter of a pint of water ; then skim, and let it stand till cold, when cold, mix it with the brandy. Lemon Butter with Sweetmeats. — Blanch and pound very fine an ounce of sweet almonds, put them to a quart of boiling cream, add the whites of three eggs well beaten, a little orange-flower water, and sweeten according to taste. Then take a lemon, grate the rind into some lemon-juice, iidd it to the cream and make it boil; then put it into a hair sieve, and when well drained, beat it together, and lay it in a high dish, with sweetmeats or ratafia cakes allround. Lemon Cakes. — Quarter as many lemons as you think proper, they must have good rinds, and boil them in two or three waters, till they are tender, and have lost their bitterness; then skin them, and put them in a napkin to fry; with a knife take all the skins and seeds out of the pulp, shred the peels fine, put them to the pulp, weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar into a tossing-pan, with just suffi- cient water to dissolve the sugar; boil it till it becomes perfectly dissolved, and then by degrees put in the peel and pulps; stir them well before you set them on the fire, boil it very gently till it looks clear and thick, and tlien put it into flat-bot- tomed glasses ; set them in a stove, and keep them in a continual and moderate heat, and turn them out upon glasses, as soon as they are candied. Lemon Cakes.—Choose the best colour- ed lemons, scrape out the blocks, and grate off all the peel; put the peel into a strainer; wet some sugar, boil it to candy height; then take it off, and put in the grated lemon-peel; set it on the fire again, and let itboil up, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and drop them on buttered plates or paper. Lemon Cake.—Take the whites of ten eggs, add three spoonsful of rose or orange-flower water, and beat them an hour with a whisk; then put in a pound of sifted sugar, and grate in the rind of a lemon; when well mixed, add the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of ten eggs, beaten smooth; stir in three quarters of a pound of flour; then butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hoar. Lejion Cheesecakes.—Boil the peel of two large lemons till they are quite ten- der, and then pound it well in a mortar, with four or five ounces of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, half a pound of fresh butter, and a little curd beaten fine: pound and mix altogether, lay a rich puff paste in some patty-pans, fill them half full, and bake them carefully. Lejion Cheesecakes.—Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar, and four ounces of butter together, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two, and life white of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one lemon and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds, pounded, three spoonsful of brandy; mix the whole well together, and put it to paste made with the following ingredi- ents: eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two-thirds of which must be mixed with the flour first; then wet it with six spoonsful of water, and roll in the re- mainder of the butter. . „ «- Lemon Chips, Grillage o/.—Pare offLEM 311) LEM the rinds of your lemons as tliin as possi- ble, and put them into double the quan- tity of sugar, boiled to la grande phme; stir tliem well, squeeze a little lemon- juice over, and then lay them on abaking plate, previously rubbed with oil; strew powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. ^ , Lemons Compdte of. * —Cut them in small pieces, and boil them in water till they are tender, then change them into cold water; then make a syrup with a glass of water, and a quarter of a pound of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it simmer gently over a slow fire for half an hour, and serve cold. Lemon Conserve.*—Grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of sugar (about a pound), scrape off the surface of the su- gar as the lemon adheres to it, until you have rasped the whole of the rind ; squeeze half the juice on the scraped su- gar, and then boil the rest to la grande plume ; take it from the fire when at this degree, and let it stand a little; stir in the lemon gently, and when it forms a sort of glace on the top of the sugar, pour the conserve into moulds; being careful, however, that it is not too hot. Lejion Cream.—Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs, well beaten,a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, and the rind of a lemon, cut very thin; boil it up, then stir it till almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon into a dish or basin, and pour the creani upon it, stirring till quite cold. Lemon Cream (Clear.)—Take a little hartshorn jelly, and put into it the peel of two lemons, taking care that there is none of the white; set it over the fire, let it boil; take the whites of six eggs, and beat them well ; take the juice of four lemons, grate in the peel to the juice, and let it soak a little while, and afterwards put the juice and eggs toge- ther j put in a sufficient quantity of double-refined sugar to sweeten it; let it boil very fast near a quarter of an hour, then strain it through a jelly-bag, and as it runs through put it in again, till it is quite clear; after which, take the peels of the lemons boiled in it, and cut them into each glass; stir it till it is half cold, and then pour it on the peel in the glasses. Lemon CVe«w( i e//o«t).—Grate off the peel of four lemons, squeeze the juice to it, let it steep four or five hours, strain it, put to it the whites of eight eggs, and the yolks of two, well beaten and strain- ed ; add thereto a pound of double-refined sugar, a quarter of a pint of rose-water, and a pint of spring-water, stir these all together ; set it on a quick fire, but let it not boil; it is done sufficiently when it creams. Lemon Cream (/eetr)-*—Take two fine large lemons, rub their rind on a piece of sugar, and scrape it off, and put on paper ; set two quarts of cream on the fire to boil; in the meanwhile whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a snow, then add to it the twelve yolks, and a pound of fine sifted sugar ; when well mixed, put them a little at a, time to the boiling cream, with the scraped sugar; boil up the whole two or three times, stirring constantly, and pour it through a sieve into a basin. When cold, put it into the mould and ice it, according to the direc- tions. Lemon Custard. — Beat the yolks of ten eggs, strain them, beat them with a pint of cream ; sweeten the juice of two lemons, boil it with the peel of one; strain it; when cold, stir it to the cream and eggs till it nearly boils, or put it into a dish, grate over the rind of a lemon, and brown it with a salamander. Lesion Drops.—Grate three large le- mons, with a large piece of double refined sugar ; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of flour ; mix well together, and beat it into a light paste, with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, put them on a tin-plate, and set them in a moderate oven. Lesion Essence. — Rasp your lemons all round, very thin, and for every quar- ter of a pound of rind, allosy one pound of sugar ; mix it well with a large spaddle till you find it is all of the same colour, and that the rind is well mixed ; put it into a stone jar, and press it down as hard as you can ; put a bladder over the paper you cover with, and tie it over quite tight; put it by, and in a raontlris time it will be fit for use. _ Lesion-flowers, CoNserne o/.*—Take six ounces of lemon-flowers, picked ; dis- solve two pounds of sugar, boil it to petit casse; then throw in the flowers, let tiiem boil up together once, and stir them till the sugar bubbles; finish the conserve as usual. Lesion (Gree?i) Preserved.* — Split some small green lemons on one side that they may take the sugar inside as well as outside ; put them into cold water, and set them on the fire, and keep them from boiling by pouring cold water on them frequently; as soon, however, as they rise above it, take them from the fire, and throw them into cold water; after they have lain a short time in it, put them on the fire, and boil slowly till the fruit is quite tender, when they must again be put into cold water. Clarify some sugar, put the lemons to it, and( .‘112 ) LEM LEM having let it boll up seven or eight times, put the whole into a pan till the next day ; then drain off the syrup, boil it up twenty or thirty times, having added a little fresh sugar, pour it over your lemons, and repeat this process for three, successive days, increasing the boiling point of the sugar each day, so that on the last it will be toper/e; when the fruit must be boiled with it once, and then it may be put into pots. If you wish the preserve to be dry, lay the fruit on slates, and place them in a stove or oven to dry. Lemon Honeycomb.—Take the juice of one lemon, and sweeten it according to your taste, and put it in the dish in which you intend to serve it. Beat up the white of an egg, then mix it with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon-juice. It should be made the day before it is wanted. Lemon Ice Cream.—Take the juice of three or four lemons, and grate the peel of one lemon ; add two gills of syrup, and one pint of cream ; mix it all together, pass it throtigh a sieve, and freeze it. I.EMON, Ice with fVine.*—Squeeze the juice from as many lemons as will yield half a pound, which filter through blot- ting paper. Put a pound and half of fine sugar, with a bottle of white wine, and lialfthe quantity of water on the fire; when it has boiled up three or four times, add the juice to it, and having boiled that also the same number of times, put in as much tincture of saffron as will tinge it of a fine yellow; strain, and finish the ice as usual. Lemon Jelly.—Set a pint and a half of clarified sugar on the fire, and dilute it with a little water; when it boils, and has been well skimmed, put in two ounces of clarified isinglass, with a little lemon-peel cut very thin ; let these boil till you have squeezed through a sieve, into a basin, tlie juice of six lemons; then pass your sugar and isinglass to it, and set it in a mould, as any other jelly : when turned out, garnish it with dried jellies. Lemon Take five lai’ge lemons, Sflueeze nut the juice from them, and add to it the whites of six eggs, well beaten, ten ounces of double-reiined su- gar, beaten very fine, twenty spoonsful of spring-water; mix all well together, strain it through a jelly-bag ; set it over a gentle fire, skim it well, and when it is hot (it must not boil) take it off, and jionr it into glasses, with shreds of lemon peel. LcMON-JUirE, Consertw of.*—Squeeze the juice ol three lemons into a silver dish, set it on a moderate fire, and let it stand till reduced to half; then add a pound of sugar boiled to catse, and finish the conserve in the usual way. Lemon-juice, to Keep. — Keep the lemons for two or three days in a cool place; if too unripe to squeeze readily, cut the peel off some, and roll them un- der your hand, they will then part with their juice more readily; others you may leave unpared for grating, when thepulp has been taken out, and they have neen dried. Squeeze the juice into a china basin ; then strain it through some mus- lin, taking care that none of the pulp passes through. Have some half and quarter of ounce phials, be carelul that they are perfectly dry, and fill them with the lemon-juice; fill them so near the top as only to admit hall a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each ; cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. If you make u.se of larger phials, you must put in rather more than half a tea-spoon- ful of sweet oil. When you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bottle as you will use in two or three days; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted; and when all is removed, the juice will be as good as when first bottled. Hang the peels up to dry, and keep them in a place free from dust. Lejions, to Keepfor Puddings.—When you squeeze the fi uit, throw the outside in water, without the pulp : let them re- main in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them in the same till tender; 6tr.ain it from them, and when they are nearly dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats ; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup, of common loaf- sugar and water, and pour over them ; ip a week or ten days, boil tliem gently Tn it till they look clear; and that they may be covered with it in the jar, you may cut each half of the fruit in two. .and they w'ill occupy a smal'cr space. Lemon Loaves.—Cul the fruit in halves, squeeze them, and preserve the liouor, take out the pulp, boil the peels till the bitter is extracted ; then lay them in syrup for two days ; then boil the syrup they liave laid in, till it is of a good consi-itency. add the peels, and put them into gla.sses for use; when they arc wanted, t.akc what qiian tity is sulficientfora dish,and fill them with some pudding mixture, cither mar- row, bread, plum. &c. or with a ru^t,a^d, and hake them with the greatest care. Lemo.v Marmalade.—Take Imhar.oaen lemons, grate off two of tlie rinos ; then cut them all, and pick out the iusidc fromLEM ( 313 ) LE M tlicskin and seeds; put to it the grated lemon, and about half a pint of pippin- jelly; take tlie same weiglit of sugar as of tlie inside, boil the sugar to a very strong then put it to tlie inside, and boil all very quick, till it becomes a jelly, which may be ascertained by dip- ping in the skimmer, and holding it up to drain; if it is sufficiently jellied, it will break from the skimmer in flakes, and if not, it will run offin little streams; when done, put it into glasses or pots. Lemon Mince Pies.—Squeeze out the juice from a lai'ge lemon ; boil the out- side till sufficiently tender to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chop- ped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and add candied fruit, the same as for other pies. Make a sliort crust, and fill the patty-pans in the usual manner. Lemon Paste.—Cut off the ends of the lemons, and run them through and through with a long pin ; put them on tlie fire in water, and boil them till ten- der ; then take thesi out, lay them in cold water a minute, put them into a cloth, and press out the water; pound and rub them through a sieve, mix them with double the quantity of sugar boiled to la %rande plimie. Set the whole on the fire to simmer, stirring constantly, and finish the paste as nstiai. Le.mon Pastille.—Grate the rind of a lemon without any of the white, infuse it in a glass of water, with half an ounce of gum-dragon ; when the latter is com- pletely dissolved, press it through a cloth, put it into a mortar, and work it up with sugar to the proper consistence; then form it according to your fancy, and dry them in the oven. Lemon Pastils.—Take half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, sifted as fine as pos- sible ; put it in a plate, take three or four lemons, and squeeze their juice over the sugar; mix it well with a spoon, till you make it rather a tbickish paste, so that von can take it upon a knife ; then take half a sheet of paper, and cover it with little round and flat drops, about the size of a sixpence, place them in a stove with a slow fire till they are quite dry', then take them off from the paper; you may use, if you please, some of the peel grated, but not chipped; for, ns it i.s a melting pastil, some of the bits would re- main in the nioutli. Lemon Peel Camliul.* — Take some thick-rinded lemons, pare olf the yellow peel, and throw it into boiling water till soft, n hen it must be [lut into cold water. Clarify some fine sugar, and boil it au pelit lisie, and having drained the lemon- peel, pour on it tlie syrup (whilst liot) ; the. next day boil the syrnp again, niut return it to the peel; tlie third and founli days proceed in the same mannei', add- ing a small quantity of clarified sugar ; tlie last time itie syrup is boiled, as soon as it rises toperle, put in the peel, cover and boil the whole together once, and. when cold, drain and dry them in a stove. Lemon Peels Candied., or Dried.— Take some preserved lemon-peels, wash them in warm water, and put them on a sieve to drain ; boil some syrup on the fire till it comes to a blow, and put your peels in ; as soon as they are covered with sugar take tliem out again, put them on wires for all the sugar to drop through, then let them stand till cold, and put them into bo.xes. Lemon Peel to Candy.—Take some lemon-peels, and clean them well from tlie pulp, and let them lay two days in salt and water; then scald and drain them dry, then boil them in a thin syrup till they look quite clear. After which, take them out, and have ready a thick syrup made with fine loaf sugar; put them into it, and simmer them till the sugar-candies about the pan and peels. Then lay tliem separately on a hair sieve to drain, strew sifted sugar over them, and set them to dry in a slow oven. Lemon Peelau Caramel.*—Take some very dry preserved lemon-peel, and cut it into several small square pieces ; put tliese pieces each on the point of little sticks for this purpose, and dip them into caramel sugar as directed. See dies- nuts au caramel. Lemon Peel Petits Souffles.*—Pat into a saucepan two ounces of potatoe flour, which mix with a little milk, and then add to it three glasses of cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and a grain of salt; set lliese over a moderate stove, stirring constantly ; in about eight minutes pout it into another saucepan, and mix with it a quarter of a pound of powder-sngar, (having previously grated on it the rinds of two lemons), and two eggs ; stir tliem together a minute, and then add the yolks of eggs; take two dozen flat custard rnoul(lS) line them with pulT paste, pour the preparation into them, and bake, them m a moderate oven ; when done i?laze them with line sugar, and serve them hot. Lemon Peel Ratafia o/.—Grate the ye/- wk; rind only of seven or eight lemons; infuse it in three quarts of the be.st bnindy for three weeks, at the end of whicli time, add tliiee quarters of a pound of fine clarified sugar to each quart, let it stand a fortnight longer, then filter and bottle it. 2E( 314 LEM LEM Lemon Peel Syrup o/.* —Take five oimcea of fresh lemon-peel, put it into a glass cucurbite, which has been gradu- ally heated ; pour on them two pounds of nearly boiling water; close the vessel very tight, and place it on hot ashes for twelve hours; after which, let the in- fusion run out gently without pressing the peel; add two pounds of powder sugar, and then boil the whole to grand perle, when about half cold, put in a few drops of spirit of lemon. Lemon Petils Souffles o/.*—Put half a pound of sifted sugar into a pan, and mix it with the white of an egg; rasp the rind of a fine sound lemon on a piece of sugar, scrape off the surface, and add it to the above; when it has become a pretty firm paste, roll it out, sprinkle fine sugar over, and cut it into bands about an inch wide ; cut these again into squares, which roll in the hollow of your hands, wet- ting them slightly for that purpose ; the sniffles being formed, put each in a small round case, rather more than an inch in diameter, and about four in height; when all is done, dip the end of your fore finger in water, and press it lightly on the top of each souffle; put them into a gentle oven, for about a quarter of an hour, by which time they will have risen considerably above the case; if the sur- face be well dried, take them out, but if not, let them remain a few minutes longer. Lemon Pickle.—Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces; put on them a pound of salt, six large doves of garlic, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of nutmeg, ditto of cayenne, and two ounces of flour of mustard; to these put two quarts of vinegar, put it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water ; or set the jar on a hot- hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks; keep the jar close covered.' Put it into small bottles. Lemon to Pickle.*—Take twelve le- mons, and rub them well with a piece of flannel ; then rub them over with bay salt, and lay them on an earthen pan, turning them every day, for three days ; then slice an ounce of ginger, and salt it well, and let it lay in salt for three days ; parboil twelve cloves of garlic, well salt- ed, for three days. A small handful of mustard-seed bruised, some cayenne pep- per, and one clove of garlic should be put to each lemon ; take your lemons out of the salt, squeeze them, put them into a jar with the spice, and cover them with the best white wine vinegar; stop tliem up close, and in a month’s time they will he fit for use LfMONS to P/cA-fe.—They should be small, and with thick rinds; rub them with pieces of flannel, then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp ; fill the slits witli salt, hard pressed in, set them upright in a par. for four or five days, until the salt melts; turn them thrice a day in their own liquor, until lender; make a sufficient quantity of pickle to cover them, of rape- vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper, and ginger ; boil and skim it; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two cloves of garlic to six lemons. Lemon Posset.—Squeeze the juice of two lemons into a china bowl, or small deep dish, that will hold a quart; sweeten it like syrup, add a little brandy; boil one pint of cream with a bit of orange- peel ; take out the peel; when cold, put the cream into a teapot, pour it to the syrup, holding it high, hlake it the day- before it is wanted. Lemons Preserved, Liquid and Dry.* —Choose your lemons as near of a size as you can, with rather thick rinds ; pare, and put them In cold water, then into boiling water over a moderate fire ; and when you can insert a pin’s head with ease, throw them again into cold water. Boil some sugar to lisse, then put in the lemons, give them a few boils together, skim, and put them into a pan; the next day drain off the sugar, boil it several times, and th.en pour it over the lemons again ; the third day boil the sugar to la nappe, adding fresh sugar to it; put the lemons in, cover the pan, and give them one boil; do this for two days successively; on the last, however, boil the sugar to perle, and when you have boiled the lemons, put them by in pots. Lemon Pudding.— Peel four lemons thin ; boil them till they are tender; rub them through a hair sieve, and preserve the fine pulp. Take a pound of Naples biscuits, a little grated nutmeg, and two ounces of fresh butter, and pour over them some boiling milk or cream in which a stick of cinnamon has been boiled. When cold, mix with them the ulp of the lemons, and eight eggs well eaten ; sweeten according to taste, and if you choose, add brandy. Edge a dish with good puff-paste, put in the mixture ; garnish the top with strings of paste, as for tartlets, and bake it in a moderately heated oven. Lemon Pudding.—Put half a pound of fresh butter with half a pound of loaf- sugar, into a saucepan,_ and keep it stirring over the fire till it boils; put it into an earthen pan, and grate the lind of a l.irge lemon into it. and let it stand till cold; beat eight eggs, and squeezeEM ( 315 ) LEM the juice of the lemon on them; mix tlie sugar and butter with them; put some rich pull-paste at the bottom of a dish, then put in the preparation, add bus of candied lemon-peel when you have put in the preparation. Bake with great care. Lemons (Rinds of) Mpnnalade. — Having squeezed the juice from your lemons, cut out all the white part, and put the rinds into boiling water; assoon as they begin to soften, take them from I the fire, and throw them into cold water ; I tlien lay them on a sieve to drain, and i make them into marmalade, in the same manner as apricots. Orange rinds are ' done this way. ' Lemon Sauce.*— Put two glasses of ! water into a saucepan, over the fire, and ' as soon as it boils, add shred parsley, salt, pepper, a piece of butter, and the juice of two lemons; make the whole quite hot, and in about five minutes the sauce will be ready for table. Lemon 5at^ce.—Pare a lemon, and cut it into slices; take out the seeds, and chop it small; boil the liver of a fowl, and bruise it; mix these in a li ttle gravy, then melt some butter, put in the liver, &c., and add a little of the peel, chopped fine. Lemon Sauce for Boiled Foiols,— Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them into melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Lemon Sauce (fVhite) for Boiled Fowls.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut extremely thin, into a pint of sweet, rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, and ten white pepper-corns; simmer it gently till it tastes well of the lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with a quar- ter of a pound of butter, rubbed in a des- j eert-spoonful of flour. Boil it up, then I pour the juice of the lemon strained into ] it, stirring it well. Dish the fowls, and j then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them j together; add salt according to your taste. I Lemon Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound j and a half of white sugar in a quart of I clear water; take nine large lemons, wipe j them perfectly, cut each across, and squeeze the juice into the dissolved sugar; plunge the lemons into the sugar- ed water, and press them, so as to extract not only the juice, but the oil contained I in the rind_. Mix the whole together, and strain it through a close hair sieve. Pour the liquid into a sorbetiere, and finish in the same manner as cream sherbet. Lemon Sweetmeats.*— Take a pound of marchpane paste, and mix it with as many yolks of eggs as will enable you to spread the paste with a knife ', add to it a sufticient quantity of grated lenmn- peel to impart the flavour required. The whole being well mixed, cut some sheets of wafer paper into such figures as your fancy may dictate, and spread the paste over them, about a quarter of an inch in thicknes.s ; place them on paper, and bake them in a moderate oven. Tf you wish to glaze your sweetmeats, boil some sugar with orange flower water to la plume, and when they are taken out of the oven, wash them over with the syrup, which dries almost immediately. Lemon Syllabubs.— Take a pint of cream, a pint of white wine, the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice; sugar according to taste; let it stand some time ; mill or whip it, lay the froth on a sieve; put the remainder into glasses, and lay on the froth. Tliey should be made the day before they are wanted. If you should wish them to taste very strong of the lemon, you must make use of the juice of six lemons, and nearly a pound of sugar; they will keep four or five days. Lemons (Syrup of),* — Squeeze as many lemons as will yield about three quarters of a pound of juice, taking par- ticular care that the peel of every lemon is perfectly sound, and that they are none of them in the least degree bitter. Set your juice in the cellar for four days, and then filter it through blotting-paper. Break a pound and a half of double re- fined sugar into pieces about an inch square ; put them into a gallon matrass, pour the lemon-juice over it, close the matrass with paper, and place it in a bam marie until the sugar is entirely dis- solved ; then extinguish your fire, and let the matrass cool gradually j when cold, add two spoonsful of spirit of le- mons, then bottle it, keep it well corked. Lemon Tart.—Rub six lemons well with salt, put them into water with a little salt in it for two days ; then change them every day with fresh water without salt, for a fortnight. Boil them till they are tender, and then cut them into half qiiartera. cornerwise, as thin as possible. Take half a dozen pippins, pared, cored, and quartered, and put them into a pint of water. Let them boil till they break ; then put the liquor to the lemons, half the pulp of the pippins well broken, and a pound of sugar. Boil these together a quarter of an hour; then put it into a pot, and squeeze. Into it the juice of a lemon; two spoonsful will be sufficient to give a proper flavour to your tart. Put fine thin puflT-paste into your patty- pans, which must be small and shallow. Before, you put your tarts in the oven 2 E 2 ILET (316) LEN take a feather or brush and rub them over witli raelied butter, and then sift over them some double-refined sugar. Lemon JVafcrs.—Squeeze the juice of six lemons into a basin ; pound and sift some double-refined sugar, and mix it with the lemon-juice; put tlie white of one egg with it, and mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, to make it of a good consistence; take some sheets of wafer-paper, and put one sheet of it on a pewter sheet or tin plate; put on it a spoonful of the preparation, and spread it all over the paper with a knife ; cut it into twelve pieces, and put them across a stick in a hot stove, with that side the paste is on uppermost, and you will find they will curl; when they are halfcurletJ, take them on very carefully and put them up, endways, in a sieve, that they may stand up; let them be in the hot stove one day, atid you will find they will be all curled, and then they are done. Lemon JValer.—Put two slices of thinly pared lemon into a teapot, a little bit oftlie peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoon- ful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close for two hours. Lemon IVater Ice. — To a pint of lemon-juice,'put a pint of water, half a gill of brandy, sweeten it with clarified sugar, and freeze it. Lemon {White) Conserve.— Boil a jiound of the finest sugar, take it off the fire, and squeeze into it the juice of one lemon at dillerent times, stirring con- tinually ; it v/ill make the sugar as white as milk if properly done; take care not to drop any of the seeds into it; work it well together, and when it is of an equal substance (which prove in the same man- ner as any other jelly), pour it into a mould. Lemon conserve is made in the same manner, only that the sugar must be boiled to a greater height than for white lemon conserve. LENTILS.*—Choose them large and white, and, after having washed and picked them, boil in water; rvhen done, fricassee them like white kidney-beans. There is a small sort of lentil which is not much used to fricassee, but is the best to make culli®, both from the colour being finpr,'and the flavour better. Lentie Cnllis.—Make a meat gravy with veal, ham, onions, parsley,scallions, two cloves, and some winter savory; set these on the fire, and when the meat catches, add seme stock, and simmer till done. Boil the lentils in stock, pound and rub them through a sieve into the stewpan with the meat; give the whole one boil; then take out the meat, and strain the cullis, which must not be loo tliick. Lentils,/rfcawerf.*—Make a light roiix, in which put some sweet lierbs, or onions cut in dice; give tliem a few turns in tlie rnux; to which add a little stock, or water; when well mixed, put in the lentils with salt and pepper. Serve them hot. Lentils d la Mat (re d’Hotel.*—B]nnch and drain your lentils, put them into a pan with a good bit of butter, slired par- sley and scallions, salt, and pepper; fry them lightljq and serve them very hot. Lentii.s d la MaUre d’Holet.*—Boil some lentils in salt and water; tlien drain tliem, and put tliem into a saucepan, with a large piece of butter; shred par- sley, some salt, and pepper; toss them in H stewpan, and serve tiiem hot. Gar- nish with crusts of bread round. Lentils, Puree of.*—Take two pints of lentils, and do them in the same man- ner as dry peas; when done, take out the vegetables, bacon, and beef; strain tlie lentils, and put them into a stewpan, with ttiree or four ladiesful of espugnole. This puree requires nioie liquid than the peas, as it will take a longer time to colour; skim it well, and be careful not to make it too thick. When pro- perly reduced, put it into another sauce- pan, and set it bv till wanted. LETTUCES d l’Espagnole.*—\\w&\\ some lettuce-hearts; boil them about twenty minutes in plenty of water with salt in it; then press out all the water ; put pepper and salt inside the lettuces, and tie them up. Lay slices of veal and bacon, two carrots cut iii pieces, three onions, two cloves, and a bay-leaf; put in the lettuces, with bacon over them ; moisten with stock and the remains of broth; when they liave simmered an liour, put the lettuces in a doth, press out all the moisture, untie and glaze them. Dish them, en couronne. with croutons, nearly the same size. Serve an espugnole Siiuce under them. Lettuces, Frferf.*—Clioose your let- tuces small and round; trim and tie them up, put lliein into a stewpan with slices of bacon, carrots, onions, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a buncli of sweet herbs, and stock; braise tliem in this till nearly done; take them out. press them in a clotli; when cold, dip them in batter and fry tliem. Lettuces, Uarlnire rf.*—Put about tliirty lettuces into boiling water, and blanch them for half an liour; then let tliem cool; press out all the water, tie them up. line a stewpan with slices of veal and b.acon ; lay tlie lettuces on this,317) LEV LET with two or three carrots, tliree onions, and two cloves; cover them with bacon, pour in some good stock, and simmer them an hour and a half; then drain the lettuces, cut them in slices, longwise. Put, alternately, layers of bread-crumbs and lettuces, until all the latter are used ; pour the sauce over them (having strained it); set the dish over the fire, and simmer the whole for some time. Put scarcely any salt to this garbure, but strew pepper between each layer. Lettuces, Garniture o/.*—Take se- veral fine lettuces, pick ofl' the green leaves; wash them well in cold water; and having blanched them in boiling, throw them again into cold water; drain, press, and tie them up. Put the lettuces I into a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, salt, pepper, scallions, thyme, ! basil, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, onions, j and carrots, a glass of white wine, and a i sufficient quantity of either stock or I water to cover them; braise them in this I for several hours over a slow fire. When I wanted, drain them well, and if large, I cut them in two, lengthwise. 1 Lettuces loith &Vauy.*—Wash and ! boil them in boiling water, with some I salt; when done, press and chop them \ip, I and put them into a saucepan with a little 1 flour, dripping, or butter, and gravy; I moisten with stock, and serve. Lettuces, Minced.*—Take as many I lettuce-hearts as you may require; wash ! them well, and blanch them in a little I salt water; when done, put them into ' cold water; when they are sufficiently cooled, put them into a cullender, and press out all the water with your hand ; then mince them small ; put a quarter of a pound ofbutter into a stewpan; then put in the lettuces with salt and pepper; m a few minutes stir in a little flour, add some stock, and stew the whole about a quarter of an hour; then serve it with bread round it. Lettuce Soup.*—Having picked and washed the lettuces, put them into boil- ing water, with a handful of salt, for half an hour: then throw them into cold water; the lettuces being cooled, press I out the water, and tie them up; lay some I slices of veal in a stewpan, then slices of I bacon; place your lettuces on them, coyer them with the same ; put in some onions and carrots_sliced; moisten them with stock, and boil them over a gentle fire for an hour or longer, if necessary ; prepare your bread as usual, and place the lettuces on it. Lettuce Sn;/p.—Take two dozen fine cabbage lettuces, well washed and blanch- ed in salt and water ; when done, take a cullender spoon, and put them in a stew- pan of clear water for a few minutes, place them on a clear hair sieve, and when well strained, they must be cut .across in three pieces, and put in a soup pot with a little sugar and salt; fill it up with good consomme, A set it by the stove to boil gently; skim it well, and clarify it the same as other soups. Lettuces {minced) Soup.*—Pick ofl all the green leaves of the lettuces, chop the hearts small, and toss them up in a little butter, till they are reduced to a pulp; then add your broth or stock, and boil them for an hour; soak your bread as usual, and then finish your soup. Cos lettuces are done in the same manner. Lettuces Stuffed.—This dish is pre- pared, dressed, and served in the same manner as cabbages stuffed. LEVERET.—(See ^m-e.) Leveret d VAnglaise,*—Skin a leve- ret without taking off the paws, which must also be skinned, leave on the nails; then take out the internal parts carefully; scald the ears in the same manner as those of a pig; remove the bitter parts from the liver, pound it with equal quan- tities of butter and panada; mix these with the yolks of four eggs, salt, pepper, spices ; cut a large onion into dice, toss it up in a little butter; when cold, add it, with a small quantity of dry sage rubbed into powder, to your farce, and fill the leveret; sew it up, and truss it ; fasten it oil the spit, tie slices of bacon, and a but- tered paper over it; roast it about an hour and a quarter ; take off' the paper, and the bacon, before it is quite done; serve it with gravy and currant jelly, and melted butter if you like. Leveret e»Came.*—Take two small, or one good-sized leveret, cut in pieces, as for civet; put into a stewpan a quar- ter of a pound of butter, two ounces of grated bacon, a dozen shalots, as many mushrooms, and some parsley, all chop- ped small; season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spice, a clove of gar- lic pounded, and a bay-leaf: put to this a bottle of while wine, and reduce till the herbs give out the butter again ;then put in the pieces of hare, and stew it with fire over and under for half an hour, tiien take them out, and lay them on a dish ; put two spoonsful of reduced espagnole to the herbs, and when pretty thick, pour it oyer the leveret, and leave it to cool; in the meanwhile oil six sheets of paper, on one of which lay thin slices of bacon ; then put the cold leveret in as square a form as you can, with all the seasoning, cover it with bacon, and the five sheets of paper, so folded, over the edges (still preserving the square shape) that none of the seasoning or sauce may escape, tie 2 E 3O LI V LEV (311 it uP) and aa hour before dinner put it on a gridiron, over a slow fire; be care- ful that the paper does not burn; when sufficiently done, take off the tiiread and one sheet of tlie paper j make a small square opening, into which pour a re- duced espagnole. liEVEnET in Caul.— Bone a leveret, and fill it with a good forcemeat, wrap it in a caul, fasten it on the spit, baste with butter, and when done, serve it with a ssMc^piquaiite. Leveuet ail Chevreuil.—^mgc. a good- aized leveret over a charcoal fire, lard and lay it for three or four hours in warm water, vinegar, butter, flour, salt, epper, parsley, shalots, thyme, bay-leaf, asil, sliced onions, lemon-peel and cloves ; fasten it on the spit, put it to the fire, basting it with the above marinade ; strain what remains of it, add a little cul- lis, and serve in a boat, when the leveret is done. , ^ , Leverets, Collops of. * — Take the meat from the bones of a cold roast leve- ret, mince it as fine as possible, with a slice of lamb or veal blanched; put it into a saucepan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little veal gravy, give it afewjturns: in^the meantime, roll out some puft'-paste very thin ; cut it into pieces the size of a crown-piece ; moisten one half of the number, lay a little of the above preparation on each; and cover them with the remaining half of the pieces ; fasten the edges together, and fry them either in lard nr butter.. Leveret, Cutlets of.—Take the fillets from a leveret, cut out as many ribs as you have fillets, and stick a bone in each ; lay them on a dish that will bear the fire, with a little broth, sweet herbs, mushrooms, pepper, salt, and a piece of butter; cover, and set the dish on the fire ; stir them tw'O or three times, when done, serve them with a rich cnllis. Leveret Fillets Bigarrc.*—Take eight leveret filiets, trim and bread the four smallest; liave some breasts of fowl cut in semicircles, slit the four larger fillets, and put one of the semicircles in each, so as to form a J ; broil the four breaded fillets, and fry the four others lightly in butter; dish them alternately en cou- ronne, with a puree of mushrooms in the middle ; glaze, and serve them. Leverets’ Fillets Fried.* —fTaVr: six fillets of leveret, cut each in'o three pieces, and these again in two, by which you will have eighteen pieces: make a farce the same as for hare; split each piece in half; beat tliem with the handle of a knife; season with salt and pepper; spread the farce over, and roll them up. to about the size of a finger ; bread them twice, the last time with egg, and fry them ; drain, and serve them with a clear aspic sauce. Leverets {Fillets) Tourte of.—Cat the meat oft" the leveret into small pieces, each of which roll in grated bacon, salt and pepper; prepare your crust, lay a little butter on it ; then put the meat with more butter, a slice of ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and lay slices of bacon over the whole; cover and bake the tourte; when done, open it, take out tlie bacon, ham, and herbs : make a sauce with the bones and some cullis, pour it in, lay on the top of the tourte, and serve it. Leveret, Gravy of .*—Cut some bacon into dice, put it into a saucepan with some small onions, mushrooms, parsley, thin slices of veal, a little pepper and salt, a ' glass of stock, the same of white wine, two tarragon leaves, and a little lemon ; lay a leveret cut in pieces on these ; cover the saucepan close, and let it stana for tlire or four hours on a slow fire; then take out the leveret, cut the meat from the bones, press out all the gravy until nothing remains but the dry fibres ; take off whatever fat may be on it, and sti ain the gravy for use. LIAISON.—Thickening it is usually done with the yolks of eggs. LIQUORICE Paste. — Scrape and bruise a quarter of a pound of liquorice- root, and boil it in a little water till it is much reduced ; let it stand to settle, and pour it clear off, and dissolve in it half an ounce of gum-dragon : when thoroughly dissolved, sift it in a linen bag. and mix sugar with it till it is brought to the consistence of a paste; then cut it into what flowers or designs you think proper. LIVERS in Caul. — Take the lean livers of pullets, capbiis, geese, lurkies, &c., with marrow, and bacon, veal sweet- breads, mushrooms, and truffles, some lean dressed ham, some onion and par- sley; when it is well minced, mix it with yolks of eggs to bind it; take the caul of a calf or sheep, and cut it into pieces, according to the size you would have them ; lay some of the farce on the piece of caul, and a fat liver upon that, then some more forcemeat, then anotherliver, then forcemeat, and so on till you have laid all; put the caul on a sheet of irapcr, and fry it in boiling lard, or bake them in an oven in a pasty-pan ; when they arc (lone, drain away the fat, lay them in a dish, warm a little gnwy, SM.«on with salt and pepper, and pour it over the livers ; add a squeeze of orange or lemon juice, and serve. Livers (/-a/), Collops eC*—Pound someL 1 V L I V ( 319 ) fat livers with beef marrow, fine herbs, shred small, salt, and spices; mix them together with cream, or yolks of eggs; roll out some pufl’-paste, cut, fill, and finish the collops in the same manner as collops of leveret. .. ™ , Livers (Fat) Garniture.*—T&Vn six fat livers, from which take the bitter parts, trim them carefully, so that they do notbur.it; then lay them in water to get rid of the blood, and scald them the same as cocks’-eomhs; stew the livers between slices of bacon, in a rich ?«)>•<;- poix; when done, lay them aside till wanted iovgaryiiture. Liver {Fat) Loff/.*—Weigh a pound of fat livers, ten ounces of panada, and eiglit of fresh butter, or grated bacon; pound the panada, then add the butter to it, and pound them together ; take them out of the mortar, in which pound the livers, after a time put the otlier ingre- dients to it, and beat the whole well for a quarter of an hour, mixing with it by degrees, the yolks of five eggs,_an ounce of spiced salt, two spoonsful of fine herbs, done up in butter, and one of veloute ; rub this farce through a quenelle sieve into a pan; add to it two ounces of calf’s udder, two of tongue, d Vecarlate, and two of truffles all cut into dice; line a plain circular mould with thin slices of bacon, make them very smooth, and pul the farce into it. Liver (Fat) Toasts.—Make a farce with some bread soaked in cream, truf- fles, one or two fat livers, marrow, shalots, all well pounded, and mixed with shred parsley, pepper, salt and eggs ; cut some slices of crumb of bread, about half an inch thick; spread the farce on, of the same thickness as the bread, smooth them with a knife dipped in whites of eggs, strew bread crumbs over, and fry them ; serve with any clear sauce under them. LivERs(/dr<0 Tourteof.—Vai the crust upon a pie-dish in the usual manner, and lay pounded bacon at the bottom ; season the livers and place them on the bacon ; cover them with butter, a buhch of sweet herbs, one slice of ham, and a few of bacon; cover, and bake it. The ham, bacon, and herbs must be taken out when it is done, drain off the fat, and pour a ragout of cock’s-combs in, and serve. Livers (Fish) Toasts.—Mince the livers of any kind of fish, and having mixed them with shred parsley, shalots and capers, pepper and salt, set it on the fire with a bit of butter, and letitsiinmer forsometime; in themean timctakesome slices of crumb of brcail, cut them into what shape you please, fry them in but- ter, and when the livers are cold, spread the preparation on the bread with fillets of anchovies laid in cross-bars over rt; baste them with melted butter, strew bread crumbs over, place tficm on a baking plate, and bake them for half an hour. Serve the toasts with melted but- ter and lemon juice. Livers with Mushrooitis—Take the livers of any sort of tame fowls, and when they are cleared from the galls, put hards of bacon at the bottom of a baking-pan, and lay the livers upon them ; season the livers and cover them with bards of bacon ; bake them in a moderately heated oven ; wash and pick some mushrooms, dry them over a stove, then lay them in a dish with a little bacon and vinegar ; then toss some slices of ham in boiling .lard, with a bunch of savory, and a pinch of flour ; moisten it with some veal gravy; when the mush- rooms and livers are well drained, boil them in the same sauce, skim off the fat, and serve them up hot. Liver and Parsley Sauce.—Wash the liver (which should be quite fresh) of a fowl or rabbit, and boil it for ten minutes, in five table spoonsful of water; chop it fine, or pound or bruise it in a small quantity of the liquor it was boiled in, and rub it through a sieve ; wash about one-third its bulk of parsley leaves, boil them in a little boiling water with a tea spoonful of salt in it; lay it on a hair sieve to drain, and chop it very fine; mix it with the liver, and put it into a quarter of a'pint of melted butter, and warm it up; do not let it boil. Livers au Ragoitt.—Take the liver of a turkey and the livers of half a dozen fowls, clean them, and take the greatest care not to break the g.alls, for if the livers are hitter the dish will be spoiled ; put them into cold water, and then put the livers of the fowls into a saucepan, with rather more than a quarter of a pint of gravy, a spoonful of catsup, a spoonful of pickled mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some salt and pep- per ; stew them gently ten or twelve minutes ; nicely broil the turkey’s liver, lay it in the middle of the dish, place the stewed liver round it, and pour the sauce over. Liver Sauce.—Take the livers of poul- try, or game, chop them very small, with parsley, scallions, tairagon-leave.«, and shalots. Soak them in a little butter *’*'*’» ^nd then pound tliem, add cullis stock, pepper and salt; give the whole a boil with two glasses of red wine, coriander, cinnamon, and sugar ; reduce and strain it. Thicken with a bit of butter rolled in flour. Serve it in a sauee-bont.LOB LOB ( 320 ) Liver Sauce Jor Boiled Chickens.— Boil the livers till you can bruise them \yith the back of a spoon, mix them in a little of the liquor they were boiled in ; melt some butter very smooth and put to them; add a little grated lemon peel, and boil all up together. LIVERNOISE.—This sauce is only a Macedoine, made with Espagnole instead of hechamelle; reduce a few carrots and turnips to a glaze, and add them to the Espagnole, taking care that it does not boil. LOAF d la Diiehesse.—Blanch and pound two ounces of pistachio nuts, half a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of dried lemon chips, and half a pound of sugar ; when all these are reduced to a paste, mix it with the yolks of six eggs, add the wiiites welt beaten; form mto the shape of a loaf, place it in a but- tered dish, and bake it in a slow oven : when done, glaze, and strew nonpareils over it. Loaf, Spanish.—Scoop out the crumbs from half a dozen crusty rolls, and fill them with any sort of cream you may think proper; soak them in Spanish wine for a short time ; sprinkle flour over and fry them ; glaze them before they are sent to table. Loaf en Surprise. — Scoop o>it the crumb from a crusty French roll, dry the crust a minute in the oven, glaze and replace it to dry ; when cold, fill it with blancmange; put it on ice, and when the blancmange is quite firm, lace it on a dish for table. This should e done either with one large French brick, or three or four rolls. LO BSTE RS, to Choose.—The heaviest are considered the best, and it is prefer- able to boil them at home. If they are quite fresh, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. When you btiy them ready boiled, try whether their tails are stiff and pull up with a spring, otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock-lob«ter may be distinguished from the hen by tlie narrow back part of the tail, and the two uppermost fine within it are stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, thougli generally the smallest, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. They come in about April, and remain in season till the oysters return. Hen lobsters are preferred for sauces, on accotint of their coral. Lobsters, to Boil.—Put on a fish-ket- tle, with water salted in the proportion of a table-spoonful of salt to a quart of water, and when it boils put in the lob- ster, and keep it boiling briskly from half an hour to an hourj according to the size of the_ lobster; wipe off all the scum from it, and rub the shell with a very little butter or sweet oil; break off the great claws, crack them carefully in each joint, so that they may not be shattered, and yet come to pieces easily; cut the tail down the middle, and send up the body whole. Lobsters Broiled.—When the lobsters are boiled, split their tails and chines, crack the claws, pepper and salt them : take out their bodies, and what is called the lady ; then put them again into the shell, and then on the gridiron over a clear fire, also the tails and claws; baste them with butter, and serve them with melted butter for sauce. Lobsters Buttered.—BoA them, take out the meat, cut it into pieces, put to it a little gravy, the inside of the lobster, and the spawn bruised ; add a very little white wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, lemon- peel grated, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon-juice ; stir this together, let it boil up; quarter the chine, season it with pepper and salt, and broil it; lay it on the dish on the rest. Garnish witk sliced lemon. Lobster Cake.—Bound the meat of two boiled lobsters with the lean of raw ham, some beef marrow, the yolks of four eggs, a bit of bread soaked in cream, a a little mace pounded, cayenne pepper, and salt. Colour the whole with lotKter spawn; then line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, press down the mix- ture into it, cover with bards of bacon, and put on the cover of the mould ; and then put it into the oven, let it bake an hour and a half, and let it stand till cold ; turn it out of the mould, take the fat away, and serve the cake up, either mo- delled or plain, with some savory jelly round it. Lobsters, Curry of.—Take them from their shells, and lay them in a pan, with a small piece of mace, four spoonsful of veal gravy and four of cream; rub one or two tea spoonsful of curry-powder quite smooth, one tea spoonful of flour, and one ounce of butter j simmer for an hour; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and add salt. Lobsters in an Italian Salad.—Take two lobsters, cut them in pieces by tak- ing off the claws and tail, each of which split in two; the spawn nib through a dry sieve to garnish the salad, made in the following manner:—wash two or three cabbage-lettuces, take .-iway the stalks, cut tncin in large shreds, slice a beet-root and a cucumber; wash, pick, and cut into long shreds, four anchovies,( 321 ) LOB LOB cliop Bome tarragon and chervil, two boiled eggs, the yolks and whites chopped separately ; if you have any cauliflowers or French beans, boil and puc them with the other things to garnish : having every thing prepared, place the lettuces in the centre of the dish in a heap, and place the lobster and other things ac- cording to your taste, and just before j'ou serve, garnish it with Italian salad sauce. LoBSTEns loMarinate.—Halfboil them, takeout the meat and lard the tails with a salted eel : then cut the tails longways, i and fry them in oil; make a sauce with \ while vinegar, salt, pepper, cloves, mace, I sliced ginger, parsley, sage, winter sa- ! vory, sweet marjoram, the tops of rose- mary and thyme, and some bay leaves ; dish the lobsters, and pour die sauce over them ; lay upon them three lemons cut in slices, and. run it all over with butter. Lobster Patties.—Sheet your patty- pans with puff paste, and put a small piece of crumb of bread into each ; then cover them with more paste, trim round the pan, wash the tops of the paste with egg, and bake them of a light colour. When they are to be served, take out the bread and fill them with lobster chopped I add to them a little strong C'Msomme of veal, a small quantity of flour, lemon-juice, cayenne pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, a shalot chopped fine, an anchovy rubbed through a sieve, and mixed over the fire for five minutes. The lobsters should be half boiled before they are chopped for the patties. Lobster, Petits Pates of.*—Take some light puff-paste, roll it out thin, and cut It into pieces with a circular paste-cut- ter ; lay them as smoothly as possible in small copper drum-shaped moulds ; take the tails of two lobsters, cut the meat into small pieces, which put into some hechamelj when well heated fill the petits 2>dtes, cover, dorez, and bake them. As soon as they are done, take tliem out of the moulds, and serve them. Lobsters to Pickle.—Boil your lob- sters in vinegar, white-wine and salt; then take them up, and put into the liquor all sorts of sweet herbs, cloves, pepper, and mace ; then put in the lob- sters again, boil them all together ; when completely done, take them out and put them into a barrel or vessel just large enough to hold them; pour the liquor over them, and set them by for use. "Lob-steu /be.—Boil two or three lob- sters, take the meat out of the tails, and cut it into pieces. Then take out all the spawn, and the meat from the claws; beat it well in a mortar, and season it with pepper, salt, two spoonsful of vine- gar, and a little anchovy liquor. Melt half a pound of fresh butter with some bread crumbs grated very fine, and the yolks of ten eggs. Put a good puff paste over the dish, lay in the tails, and then add the rest of the meat on them. Put on the lid, and bake it in a slow oven. Lobsters Polled.—Take out the meat as whole as you can, split the tail, and re- move the gut; if the inside is not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and one or two cloves, in the finest powder. Put a little butter at the bottom of the pan, and the lob- sters smooth over it, with bay-leaves be- tween ; cover it with butter, and bake it gently. Wlien done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-jars, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it* When cold, pour clarified butter over it,' but not hot ; it will be good the day after it is done, and if very highly-seasoned and thick-covered witli butlei', will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with cream sauce. Lobster d la Remoulade. * — Break the shell, open the back, take out all the inside, and put it into a china ba- sin, mix a dessert spoonful of mustard, parsley and shalots, shred small, salt, pepper, and the coral; stir these toge- ther well, with some oil and vinegar; put your lobster on a dish, and the above mixture or remoulade in a sauce-boat. Lobster Tfoasfed.—More than half boll it, take it out of the water; while hot, rub it well with butter, put it in a Dutch oven, baste it well till nicely frothed ; serve with melted butter. Lobster Sauce. — Put the coral or spawn of a lobster into a mortar, with a bit of butter, and well pound it; then rub it through a line liair sieve; put some butter sauce into a stewpan, and the coral of the lobster : set it on the fire till it is very liot, and looks perfectly smooth and red, if not smooth pass it througli a tammy ; then put in the meat of the lob- ster, cut into small dice; make it very hot, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and serve it to table. Lobster Sauce. — Pound the coral, pour upon it two spoonsful of gravy; strain it into some melted butter ; then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add the squeeze of a lemon. You may, if you choose, add two ancho- vies pounded. Lobster fn « Savory Jelly.— Make a good aspic jelly, being very clear, and the mould ready in ice, lialf fill it with the jelly, and when it is set, lay some ancho- vies. shredded fine, in what form youLOB MAC ( 322 ) a layer of macaroni in a deep dish or I them into the stock to boil for twenty please, on the jelly, then your lobster, cut the s'lme as for salad, over it; fill the mould with the remainder of the jelly, and when set serve it fora second course, entree^ or a supper dish. Lobsteu ( Co//ops o/) in the Shell.*— Cut the lobster in two, without breaking the shell, take out all the meat, and cut It into dice, take out all the inside of the lobster and clean the shell. Put two spoonsful of velmte, a little butter, salt, and cayenne pepper into a saucepan, and stir it over the fire: when quite hot, put m the minced meat, and the inside; and pour the whole together into the shell; smooth it over with a knife, strew bread-crumbs over, baste it with clarified butter, make it very hot, and colour it with a salamander. Lobster, Small Timbales of,— Take the white meat from a couple of small lobsters, cut it into dice ;mix two spoons- ful of bechamel with a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, a little shred parsley, a tea-spoonful of cavice, and half a spoon- ful of elder vinegar; make it hot, but not boiling; put in the lobster, season with pepper and salt, fill some small custard moulds with this, and serve hot. Lobster Soup—Boil three fine young hen lobsters ; when cold, split the tails, take out the meat, crack the claws, ami cut the meat into pieces; take out the coral and soft parts of the body, bruise part of the coral in a mortar, pick out the meatfrom the chines, bruise part of it with the coral, and with this make force- meat-balls, seasoned with mace or nut- meg, grated lemon-peel, anchovy, and cayenne ; pound these with the yolk of an egg. Have three, quarts of veal stock; bruise the small legs and the chine, and put minutes; then strain it, and to thicken it, take the fresh coral and bruise it in H mortar with a little butter and flour, rub it through a sieve, and put it to the soup with the meat of the lobsters and the remaining coral; let it simmer very' gently for ten minutes; do not let itboil, or its fine red colour will immediately fade: pour it into a tureen, add the juice of a lemon, and a little essence of an- chovy. Lobsters, to Stew.—Put the lobster into a stewpan, with vinegar, claret, but- ter, suet, and nutmeg; stew it rather dry, and then take it up and lay it in a dish; pour butter over it, and garnish with slices of lemon. Lobster, Slewed (a very high Relish). —Pick the lobster from the shell, and put the coral into a dish that has a lamp, and rub It down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut catsup, a small quantity of salt and cayenne, and a spoonful of port', stew the lobster, cut into bits, in tlie gravy as above. M. MACARONI.*—Put a piece of butter, half a pound of macaroni, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a little salt into hot water, boil them for three quarters of an hour, and then, if the macaroni is flexible, take it out and drain it well. Put it into anotlier saucepan with two ounces of butter, three of grated Parme- san cheese, four of Gruyere, also grated, a little pepper and nutmeg ; toss up the whole together, adding two or three spoonsful of cream ; and when done, put it on a dish, and serve it very hot. Macaro.m, dressed Sweet.—Boil two ounces of macaroni in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a cus- tard over them hot. Serve cold. Macaroni, au Gratin.* — Lay fried bread pretty closely round a dish, boil your macaroni in the usual way, and pour it into the dish ; smooth it all over, and strew bread-crumbs on it, then a pretty thick layer of grated Parmesan cheese ; drop a little melted butter on it, and colour it with a salamander. Macaroni d la Napolitaine.*—Boil two pounds of macaroni for half an hour, in salt and water; then put it into a cul- lender to drain. Take three quarters of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated | put tureen, and on it a layer of macaroni, the cheese, and so on, alternately, till both are used up, making the Parmesan the top; pour over it some gravy, d Vetouffade; melt half a pound of fresh butter, and pat on the whole. Serve it very hot. hlACARONi and Parmesan Cheese Sairp. —Take a quarter of a pound of macaroni, boil it till tender in a quart of wal stock “, then add three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little pounded mace, five pints more of veal stock j boil all together five minutes, and rub it through a tammy ; then boil it again for ten minute.s, skim it, season it with salt and cayenne pep- per to the palate; and add a liaison with the yolks of four eggs, and some cream. Macaroni, Pofa^e of.*—Take half a pound of macaroni, break it in small 1 I IMAC ( 323 ) MAC pieces, boil and drain it, dress it in a cmisonniiC-, similar to that for mock tur- tle soup; pour it into your tureen, and scri’e grated parmesan separately. MACAaoNi Pudding.—Take an ounce or tivo of the pipe sort of macaroni, and simmer it in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, three eggs, but only one white, some sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of almond-water, and half a glass of raisin wine: lay a nice paste round the edge of the dish, and pul it in the oven to bake. If you choose you may put in a layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberry-jam : in this case you must not put in the al- mond-water, or ratafia, you would other- wise add to flavour it. Macaroni (to Seroe).—Simmer it in a little stock, with pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate over it a good deal of cheese, then over that put bread grated very fine. AVarm some but- ter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen cullender all over the crumbs, then put the dish in a dutch oven to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separate crumbs, and look light. Macaroni (to Serve).—Wash it well, and simmer it in half milk, and half of veal or mutton stock, till the macaroni is tender; then take a spoonful of the liquor, put to it the yolkof anegg, beaten in a spoonful of cream ; just make it hot to thicken, but do not let it boil; pour it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over it, and add bits of butter; brown it nicely with the salamander. Macaroni Soup.—Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till it is quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another stewpan. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. Then put it to the two liquors, adding a pint or more of boiling hot cream, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese; make it hot, but do not let it boil; serve it with the crust of French roll, cut into small pieces. Macaroni Slewed.—Boil a quarter of a pound of macaroni in beef stock, till nearly done; then strain it, and add a gill of cream, two ounces of butter, a table-spoonful of the essence of ham, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little cayenne pepper and salt; mix them over a fire for hve minutes, then put it on a dish, strew grated Parmesan cheese over it, smooth it over with a knife, and colour it with a very hot sala- mander. Macaroni, Timlale o/.*—Take some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into narrow bands ; twist each into a kind of cord, which place round the insides of buttered moulds, snail fashion ; fill each mould with macaroni, cover the tope with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese (equal quantities of each); put the ffwi- baks into a warm oven, and bake them three quarters of an hour ; then turn them on a dish, and serve. Macaroni Timbale of au Chasseur.*— Prepare the. macaroni as for the tim- bale, putting filets of larks, dressed in espagnole travaille, and a fumei of game, instead of the veloutc and gravy. The rest of the operation is the same as tim- bak of macaroni. Macaroni Timbale of a IdMariniere.* —Cut the filets of a middling sized sole, and fry them lightly in butter; blanch two carp roes, and take about a dozen very red cray-fish tails; prepare your macaroni as directed (see timbale of macaroni), with the addition of two spoonsful of bechamel maigre, and four ounces of cray-fish butter, and only half the usual quantity of plain butter. When done, put abouta quarter of it in the timr- bale, and on it the two carp roes, half the cray-fish tails, and as many fine white mushrooms; cover these with a third of the macaroni, upon which lay the filets of sole, the remainder of the tails, and six white mushrooms. Pour the rest of the macaroni on this, and finish as directed. See the recipe above- mentioned. Macaroni Tourte au Zt'p/ryr.—Scald about half a pound of macaroni; drain, and then boil it in some good stock; when quite tender, add to it a proper quantity of grated Parmesan cheese, and veal cullis, put it into a tourte auziphyr (see the article), and serve. MACAROONS. — Take a pound of sweet almonds blanched, and nicely pounded, add a little rose-water to pre- vent their oiling; add a pound of sifted sugar, then whisk the whites of ten eggs to a solid froth, and add to the above; beat all together for some time. Have ready wafer paper on tin plates, drop the mixture over it separately, the size of a shilling, or smaller; sift over them a lit- tle sugar, and bake them. Macaroons Bitter Ice Cream.*—Take a quarter of a pound of hitter macaroons, pound them, and having prepared the cream, eggs, and sugar, in the usual way (see ice cream); add the macaroon( 324 ) M a C MAC powder, boil, strain, and finisli, as tlicrcin directed. Macaroons Filled.*—Take some sweet macaroon paste, and lay the cakes on wafer, quite routid; when all are done, have a round stick (about an inch in dia- meter), and make a hollow in the centre of each ; bake them as usual, till yellow, and crisp ; tlien take them out, and put in the hollows preserved cherries, rasp- berries, or some jelly ; and instead of detaching the macaroons from the paper, cut it close round the edge.'. Macaroon (Filled) Tart of.*—Cement together as many sheets ol wafer-paper as will be suflicient to cut a piece the size of a dish ; spread over its surface sweet macaroon paste, about a quarter of an inch thick ; on this [)lace a border of almond-shaped macaroons round the edge ; then lay them in diagonal lines over the whole; cross these again, so as to form a treillis over the surface, taking care to make the points touch neatly; wlien the whole is covered, put it on a tin in a moderate oven, and bake it three quarters of an hour; then take it out, and garnish the spaces between the macaroons with various preserved fruits. Macaroons d la Portuguise-.*—l't)Me: si.K ounces of potatoe flour-, a pound of sweet almonds, a pound and a quarter of •sugar, and the whites of twelve eggs. Blanch and pound the almonds ; beat the eggs to a^snow, then mix them witk the almonds, add afterwards the sugar and flour; beat the whole up well, and put the preparation into small paper cases, and bake them 'like other biscuits. Macaroons, Sweet.*—Blanch a pound of sweet almonds, throw them into cold water for a few minutes, lay them in a napkin to dry, and leave them for twenty four hours; at the end of that time, pound them, a handful at a time, adding occasionally some white of egg, till the whole is reduced to a fine paste; then take two pounds of the best lump-sugar, pound and sift it, then put it to the al- moitds, with the grated rinds of two lemons ; beat thcfe ingredients together- in the mortar, adding orte at a lime, as many eggs as you firrd necessary to moisten the prrste, which should be thin, but not too mtrch so, as in that case it •' would run ; your paste beirtg ready, take out a little in a spoon, and lay the maca- roons on sheets of white paper either round or oval, as you please; lay them at least an inch apart, because they spread in baking, and if prrt nearer worrld touch. The whole of your paste being used, place the sheets of paper on tins in a moderate oven for three quarters of itn hortr. 1 his kind of cake reqrrires great care and attentiorr; it will be well therefore to take notice of the folio-wing rules: 1. To mind that the almonds are per- fectly di-y before you begin to pound them. 2. Take great care that not a particle of the yolk is mixed with the white of egg, which would entirely spoil the colour of the macaroons, and prevent their rising in the oven; to avoid this, open each separately, and if perfectly fresh, divide the yolk and n Idle witli great care. 3. The oven must be no more than rnoderately heated, nothing being more liable to burn than almonds and sugar ; by the least negligence in this respect, the surface would be burned, whilst the inside would remain unbaked. 'I he best method to obviate any mischief of this sort:—put two or three macaroons into the oven to try it; leave them in the usual time; and if, when you take them out, they are of a clear yellow, the oven is propel ly he.ated, and the whole of the macaroons may then be put in. Macaroons (Spiced).*—Take a pound of sweet almond.s, and two pounds of sifted sugar; make your paste as usual, to which add a spoonful of powdered cin- namon, six or eight cloves, also pounded, some preserved lemon and orange-peel (of each a spoonful), chopped small, and the grated rind of two lemons; mix them all together in the mortar, and then lay your macarcoiis as usual, and bake them with equal care. Macaroons (Spiced) Tart of.*—Join together us many sheets of wafer-paper with water as you may judge necessary, to cut it to the size of a dish ; lay it on a sheet of white paper, cover it with the spiced macaroon paste, about an inch thick ; put it in the oven, and bake it of a clear brown. In the mean while, boil a quarter of a pound or six ounces of sugar with some orange-flower water, until, on dipping the skimmer into, and shaking it in the air, the sugar flics off in small bottle-shaped piece.s; .-»s soon as the tart is baked, pour the sugar over it pretty thickly ; replace it in the oven to dry the sugar, which should re- semble icing ; in a few minutes take it out and lay it in a large dish. MACEDOINE.*—Take as many c.ir- rots and turnips as you think necessary, cut them into pieces, blanch and boil them in a little conaomnic ; reduce them to a jelly. Take the following vegetables, young peas and bcan.«. French beams, cut into lozenges, cauliflow-cr.s, artichoke bottoms, cucumbers, asparagus heads.MAC ( .‘325 ) MAC sm-iH onions, and white mushrooms; blancli all these separately, and a quar- ter of an hour before dinner, make them quite hot, and then drain them on a cloth; in the mean time, reduce some atleniande., add to it the jelly of roots, keep them boiling, put in the roots and vegetables, with a little sugar and fresh butter; stir them together until the sauce adheres to the vegetables. The macedoine is generally used to garnish the removes of soups. ^ Macedoine A la Bechamelle. —Pre- pare carrots, turnips, small onions, pease, I asparagus, bread, and French beans, t artichoke bottoms, cauliflowers, &c. &c., in the same manner as the macedoine ; ‘ when they are all done in their appro- priate seasoning, drain them very dry, I and put them into a saucepan, and pour I on them a reduced bichamel; snake I them all up together, that the sauce may I be thoroughly incorporated with the i vegetables; keep it hot, but do not let it i boil. Macedoine of Fruit.*—The mace- doi)ie is an ornamental dish, composed of transDarent jelly, with various fruits enclosea in it; for this purpose it sliould bedoneas follows; Have a dome-shaped mould six inches and a half in diameter, and four in height, the sides fluted ; the smaller mould must be of a similar form, but only four inches and a half in dia- meter, and two and three quarters high; I to this latter have four handles, bent at the end, to hang it exactly in the centre of the larger mould. Prepare a straw- berry transparent jelly, place the larger mould as straight as possible in pounded ice, hang the small one in it, and pour the jelly into the former; whilst it is congealing, pick about twenty fine white strawberries, the same number of very red ones, the same of white raspberries, a dozen bunches of red, and the same of white currants; wash all these well, but touch them as little as possible, that they may not lose their freshness ; when the jelly is perfectly set, pour some hot water into the small mould which will enable you to remove it with ease ; raise it with great care, so that the space may be found without the sliglitest flaw; then plai;e on the jelly (in the centre of this space) two bunches of white currants, surround these witii a ring of white strawberries, and the latter with a crown or ring of white raspberries; pour over very carefttlly two or three spoonsful ol the jelly, and when that is congealed, proceed in the same way with the red currants, strawberries, and raspberries, then the jeily, and so on alternately, until all the fruit is used ; fill the mould with jelly; as soon as the whole is con- gealed, dip your mould into a large saucepan of hot water, and then turn it into a dish instantly. The macedoine may he garnished in this manner with any kind of fruit you think proper. It may also be filled with two jellies as follows: white lemon jelly in the large mould, and finished with the same jelly, tinged with either rose-colour or yellow; indeed the moulds may be varied in any way your fancy may dictate. MACKEREL, to CAoose.—Their gills should be of a fine red, their eyes full, and the whole fish stiff and bright; if the gills are of a faint colour, the fish limber and wrinkled, they are not fresh. They are in season in May and Jutie. Mackerel Boiled.—Boil them in salt and water, with a very little vinegar. Serve with fennel sauce and coddled gooseberries. Mackerel with Black Butter.*—The mackerel for this dish should be dressed according to the directions for mackerel grille; dish them; then put a piece of butter into a frying- pan, and when it is quite hot, fry some parsley in it, and pour them over the fish ; heat up some vinegar, and pour that over also. Mackerel Broiled or Fried.— They may be broiled or fried, and are ex- tremely good either way, stuSed with crumbs of bread, parsley chopped, le- mon-peel grated, pepper, salt, and nut- meg, mixed with yolk of egg; anchovy sauce and fennel sauce. Mackerel en .Cailles.— Cut two or three mackerel, each into three pieces, give them a few turns over the fire in butter, with parsley, slialots, mush- rooms, pepper and salt, then wrap each piece in a vine leaf, with a piece of bacon and some of the seasoning ; lay them on a baking dish, pour the remainder of the seasoning over, put them in the oven ; when nearly done, take them out, cover them with bread crumbs; replace the dish to finish the baking. Serve with wine sauce. Mackerel Collared. — They may be done in the same manner as eels are done, only the sage should be omitted, and sweet herbs, a little nutmeg, and lemon-peel, substituted in its place. Mackerel e/t Compote.*—Prepare the mackerel, cut oil' the tails, and put them into a small saucepan well buttered, with ' any common fisli you may have, and ancliovy and white wine ; braise them in this; when done, serve them witii their own liquor. Mackerel, to Dry.— They must lie very fresh. Gut and wash tliem very clean, cut off their heads, split them 2 F 1MAC MAC 326 down the back, and lay them qnite flat; hang them by their tails to drain ; they should be hung in a very cool place. Strew some salt at the bottom of a pan; sprinkle the fish thoroughly with salt, lay them in the pan, belly to belly, and back to back; let them lie in the salt twelve or fourteen hours, then wash the salt off clean, and hang them up to drain for half an hour, pepper the insides a little, and lay them to dry on stones laid aslant towards the sun ; take care never to let them be out when the sun is not upon them, nor till the dews are dis- persed, as the stones they are laid upon should be warm and dry. They will be perfectly cured in a week ; hang them up by their tails, putting their insides together, in a dry place, but not in any smoke. They shpuld be either fried in boiling oil, or broiled on or before a very clear fire, and basted with oil on a feather. No sauce will be required, for if they are good, they will be very moist and mel- low ; if they should be dry, you may serve with a little melted butter and parsley, or crimped parsley. Mackerel, Entree of. — Split your mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and lay a sprig of fennel in tliem. Broil them gently, and when ready to serve, take out the fennel, and put in its place a mixture, made with fresh butter, chopped parsley, green onions, pepper and salt; add plenty of lemon-juice. Mackerel ( Fillets of) Saute.—Cut the fillets the whole length of the fish, take off the skin, trim and pht them into a tossing-pan, with salt, pepper, pai'sley, and scallions shred small; pour a little melted butter over, and set them on the tire, moving the pieces about, lest they should adhere to the pan, turn them very carefully, and do the other aide. Take a gooil bit of butter, a ladleful of veloute, the yolks of three eggs, the juice of two lemons, salt, whole pepper, a ruvi- gotte chopped small; stir it over the fire (but without boiling) till the right con- sistence, then pour it over the fillets. Mackerel (Fillets of ) Saiiti d I’ltali- enne.*—The fillets being taken off, cut them in two, takingolf the skin, and put them into a cutlet pan (previously toss them in egg, and rub over with bread crumbs), with clarified butter, a little water, the juice of half a lemon, and a sprinkle of salt; saute them over a mode- rate fire, and when done, put them be- tween two plates, to drain the liquor from them ; place them on the dish in the form of a star, and pour over them some good Italienne sauce- Mackerel (Fillets of) to le served Cold.—Saute and dish the fillets, the same as the fillets saute a I'Italienne, but let them stand till cold, and before they are wanted, pour over them a re- moulade sauce, or they may be served in a salad, the same as salmon. Mackerel d la Flamande.*—Choose i| three good sized and very fresh mackerel, ,j take out the entrails through the gills, , tie up the head, cut off' the end of the | tail, but do notopen the back. Workup i some shalots, parsley, and scallions i (chopped very small), with a piece of | butter, add salt, pepper, and lemon- , juice, stufl'the body of the fish, and roll | each in a sheet of buttered paper, tie the | two ends tight, rub the paper with oil, | and broil them for three quarters of an | hour over a very clear fire. When done, , take them out of the paper, dish, and | pour over them the butter contained in | the cases and lemon-juice. i Mackerel en Fricandeaicx.—'T^^ the | skin from one side of the mackerel, lard, , and put the fish into a braising pan, with i a few slices of veal, liam, equal quantities ) of broth and white wine (let the veal be i nearly done before you put in the mack- I erel); set the pan on a slow fire, and in I a few minutes, add a few mushrooms, and | a bunch of sweet herb.s; when the fish i are sufliciently done take them out, strain | and reduce the sauce to a glaze, with I which do the larded side ; put a little j butter to the remainder, and ser\’e it I under the fish. Mackerel Fried.—Cut your mackerel, each into eight pieces, which soak for i half an hour in lemon-juice, pepper, and I salt; wipe them perfectly dry. dip each i piece in wine batter, and fry them dry; | serve with fried parsley. Mackerel, the German way. — Split I them down the back, and season them i with pepper and salt; broil them, and i serve with the following sauce ; pick and I wash some fennel, parsley, mint, thyme, and green onions; but use only a small quantity of each. Boil tliem lender in a ! little veal slock ; then chop them un, and add to them some fresh butler, the liquor they were boiled in, some grated nutmeg, the juice of half a lemon, a little Myenne pepper, and salt. Let it boil, thicken it with Hour, and serve in a sauce boat. Mackerel Glazed.*—Clean and dry the fish Rs usual, lard them with streaked bacon, put them into a stcwp;m. with two sliceii of veal, sweet herbs, pour some eoxn-t bouillon on them; stew them : when i done, take them out, reduce the liquor, ^ and glaze your fish with it. > ftlACKEREi. Grille.* — Clean, empty, > and wipe your fish as usual; split them I 1 IMAC ( 327 ) MAG up the back, rub them with a little but- ter; mix Slime bread-crumbs and shred parsley, cover the mackerel with this, and broil them ; when of a nice colour serve them with the following sauce:— Put some shred parsley, a small quan- tity of oil, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice into melted butter; stir them up toge- ther, and make it quite hot. Mackerel d Vltalierme* — Prepare your mackerel the same as for lahla- mande; put them into a stewpanwith half a bottle of white wine, some slices of onions, and carrots, parsley, half a bay-leaf, and salt to the taste; stew them in this till done ; then drain and serve them with a white llalienne. Mackerel d la Maitre d’Hotel.*— Three mackerel are quite sufficient for this dish; take out the entrails, and having wiped the fish with a wet cloth, split it open along the back, from head to tail; lay them in a deep dish with salt, whole pepper, scallions, and parsley; pour a sufficient quantity of oil on them to soak them well. Half an hour before dinner, place them on a gridiron over a gentle fire, and broil them on both sides. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley and scallions, shred small, pepper, and salt; mix them well, and then adda glass of water and the juice of a lemon; set this over the fire, stirring till it boils, when it may bepoured overthe maclcerel. Mackerel, Pickled. — Clean and di- vide them ; then cut each side into three, or, leaving them undivided, cut each side into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest owder; mix all together, and make oles in each bit of fish, and put the seasoning into them ; rub each piece of fish with some of the seasoning; then fry them brown in oil; let them stand till cold, then put tliem into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar; if you intend to keep them for some time, pour oil on the top of the jars. In this manner they may be preserved for months. Mackerel, Potted.—They are potted in the same manner as eels. Mackerel, Roasted,.* — Soak three mackerel in a marinade of oil, with scallions, parsley, and shalots, all chop- ped; season it with salt and pepper; when they have laid in this for half an hour, fasten the mackerel to a spit, roast them before a small fire, basting with melted butter; just before they are done, strew bread-crumbs over; finish ana serve them withany fish-sauce youplease. Mackerel {soft Roes qf) en Caisscs,~ Take the soft roes from half a dozen broiled mackerel, put them into paper- cases with shred parsley, raspings, but- ter, salt, and pepper. Bake tliem, and when done, serve them with mleon- juice. _ , ^ Mackerel (soft Roes of) Petits-pates. —Take the soft roes from four mackerel; put them into a pan with clarified butter, sufficient to cover them; then put the pan into an oven ; when done, take them out, drain, and cut them into dice, w'hich put into petits-pates; keep thetrt hot, and just before they are sent to table put into each some of the following sauce: Reduce two spoonsful of velmite and One olconsomme, then add a little butter and thick cream, season with pepper and salt, and pour it in quite hot. Mackerel, Soused.—Thoroughly wash and clean them ; take out the roes, boil them in salt and water ; when they are done, take them out, and lay them in a deep dish; pour away half the liquor they were boiled in, and add to the rest of the liquor as much vinegar as will cover them, with two or three bay-leaves. They should lie two or three days before they are eaten. MADELAINES.*—Take nine ounces of powder-sugar, eight of flour, the yolks of four and six whole eggs, two spoonsful of brandy,' and a grain of salt; put these into a saucepan, stirring continually, until the paste thickens; after which, stir only one minute; clarify ten ounces of good fresh butter, with which, butter about two and thirty madelaine moulds, pour the remainder of the butter into your preparation; set it on a gentle stove, stir till it begins to become liquid, take it off before it has time to get too hot, put a little of this into each mould, and bake them in a moderate oven. Madelaines en Sttrimse.* —Mdke youv madelames in the usual way ; when cold, cut a thin slice from the bottom, take out nearly all the inside; pound four ounces of blanched filberts, mix them with eight spoonsful of apricot marmalade, which mixture put into the madelaines, and place the slice taken from the bottom, and serve them. MAGNONNAISE d la Ravigotte.*— Take of chervil, tarragon, pimpernel, each n handful, and a little ciioi/fe/fe, and having picked and washed, scald them for five or six minutes in boiling water with a little salt in it; then let them cool, drain and squeeze out all the water, and pound them well, moistening witli a spoonful of the magnonmise (see Magnonnaise,fPhite); strain thisthrough a silk sieve, nnd mix it with a magnon- liaise ]orepared as above; if it be notM A L { 328 ) M A R (sufficiently green, add asmall quantity of esoeiice of spinach. Magnonnaise, IVhite.* — Put into a pan the yolks of two eggs, a good pinch of salt, and tlie quarter of a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar; take a wooden spoon, stir them up quickly, and when it begins to thicken, add Isalf a dessert-spoonful of the best olive oil 5 as the sauce continues to thicken, put in a few drops of vinegar, then oil, and soon, still rapidly Stirling and rubbing the spoon against the sides of the pan. In proportion as the sauce gains consistence, increase, by degrees, the quantity of oil and vinegar, and add a little aspic-jelly ; do notecase stirring until you nave thus amalgamated, two glasses of oil, half a glass of aspic-jelly, and, as much vine- gar as you find necessary to render the sauce palatable; when done, it should be of the consistence of thick cream, and equally smooth; keep it in a cool place till you want to use it. MAIDS.—They should hang up for one day, at least. You may either broil or fry them. If they are of a tolerable size, you may boil the middle part, and fry the fins. They should be dipped in egg, and covered with bread-crumbs. MAITRED’HOTEL, C’ofrf.*-Put a quarter ofa pound of butter into a sauce- pan, with some parsley an’d shalots, minced small, salt, whole pepper, and lemon-juice; mix the whole together with a wooden spoon. Pour the il/aifre d’Hotel either over, under, or into what- ever meat or fish you intend to serve. MAITRE D'HOTEL, Liee* — Vnt into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a tea-spoonful of flour, parsley, and scallions, chopped small, salt, whole pepper, and two ladlesful of water ; set It on tlie fire only just as it is wanted ; stir it like a white sauce; if it be too thick,put in a little lemon-juice and water. This sauce should be of the same con- sistence as JVhite Sauce. MALLOWS, Symp of.*—Tak^ half a pound of mallows root, and having scraped and washed it well, cut it into small pieces, which set on the fire with three pints of water; when sufficiently boiled, the water will be glutinous, strain oil’the decoction, and pour into it four pounds of sugar j clarify it in the same manner as capillaire; boil it to fmt', rnnit through a jelly-bag, and when cold, bottle it. MALT f’inegar.*—fn Germany, this vinegar is made witli barley and wheat malt, of both of which there are two sorts, one dried in an oven or kiln, the other dried in the open air; of the latter the largest quantity is generally used. Put ten gallons of boiling water into a large tub, stir till it cools a little ; then add your malt (two thirds barley, and one third wheat) a little at a time, stir- ring it with a stick until thoroughly mixed with the water; cover the tub. Boil some more water, take the mash from the bottom of the large tub, put it into a smaller one, and place, this within a larger one, so that there may be two inches space between the bottoms of each tub; set another small tub on the top; this latter should have holes pierced in it, through which pour the ooiling water on the mash, beneath lay straw over, and leave it for an hour and a half; after that time, draw off the water by means of a cock placed between the two tubs ; then pour fresh boiling water over the malt, let it stand again, and repeat this operation as many times as you think necess.ary; the precise number must be regulated according to the in- tended strength of the vinegar. Pour the liquor into casks, and when cold and settled, put it into a large barrel with a head to it; add some beer-lees, cover and leave it for ten hours to ferment; as soon as it is clear, pour it into a cask, previously washed with strong vinegar, put to it some yeast; skim it well, and you will then have vinegar of the best qn.ality. MARASCHINO.* — Take sixteen pounds of fine sharp cherries, stone and take off the stalks; put them into five quarts of brandy to infuse, covered close for three days, then distil the infusion ; distil also a pound of cherry-leaves in six quarts of filtered river water, from which you will obtain about a gallon; dissolve in this four pounds and a half of fine sugar ; add it to the liqueur, with two pints and a half of kir.'chenwasser, an ounce and four drachms of spirits of rose, the same of orange-flqwer,-<, and three drachms of spirits of jessamine; mix them altogether, run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it; cork them well. RlAnAscHiNO, Conserve of.*—Pound and sift some of the best lump sugar, mix it in a china basin with spirit of maras- chino, until it is of the consistence of pastil paste; then put it into a skillet over the fire, and heat it gently, stirring it constantly (but without letting it boil), till very liquid, when it may be poured into funnel-shaped tin moulds; put these moulds on iron plates, and dry the conserve in a stove. MAnASCHixo, Fromage Bavarois. — Boil a pint of double cream, to which add halfa pound of sugar and six drachms of clarified isinglass; run it through aMAH ( 329 ) MAR sieve, and place it on ice; the moment it begins to congeal, pour in, by degrees, half a glass of maraschino; then stir in the whipped cream, and finish as usual. Maraschino Ice CremwTake two Suarts of cream, twelve eggs, a pound of ouble-refined sugar, and three glasses of true maraschino; put the cream on to boil, and in the mean time whisk the whites of the eggs to a firm snow, then pour in eight yolks, and the sugar pound- ed and sifted, stir them together lightly, and then and by degrees the boiling cream, whipping continnallv; set it on the fire, and do not cease whipping until it has boiled up three or four times ; pour it through a sieve, into a basin, stirring a little to enable it to run more freely; when cold put it into the sorbetiere with tlie maraschino; cover it instantly, and ice it as usual. Maraschino, Sot/ffles, Franeais of.*— Your preparation being made as usual {see Souffles Frariqais), when the whites of eggs are put in, add half a glass of maraschino. MARCHPANE.*—Take four pounds of sweet almonds, throw them into boil- ing water, let them lay till the skin loosens, then put them into cold water, after a few minutes blanch and throw them again into cold water to wash them thoroughly. When dry, pound them (a handful at a time) to a very fine paste, moistening each handful with two spoons- ful of water ; the whole quantity of al- monds being pounded, put the paste into a large preserving pan, with four pounds of the best lump sugar finely pounded and sifted; set the pan on a coal fire, stir and work them up together with a large wooden spatula, rather sharp at the bottom: be very careful that none of the pasteadheres to thepan; the consequence of such neglect would be, that the march- pane would be spotted with yellow, and would smell unpleasantly. Whilst work- ing it up, the paste, which when pul in was tolerably firm, will become rather liquid, and a great deal of vapour may be observed ; the first is caused by the sugar dissolved by the heat and moisture, the second by the evaporation of the water. Continue to stir and work it up in this manner without ceasing for two hours, and if at the end of that time, you can touch the paste without its adhering to your fingers, it is sufficiently dried ; in which case remove it all to one side of the pan, clean the bottom and side of the other, sprinkle it well with flourj then put the paste to that part, clean and sprinkle that side also; then take the pan by both ears and move it round and round, so that the paste may all unite together: as soon as it has done so, put it into a sheet of paper, or, if you want to use it immediately, on a well floured table. This paste, if the almonds be well pounded and then thoroughly dried, will keep good for six months; if these two precautions are not properly attend- ed to, it will become sour in ten days. Marchpane Royal.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, blanch and throw them into cold water, drain and pound thern, moistening with orange-flower and plain water, but take care not to put too much at once. The almonds being reduced to a paste, put them into a preserving pan with half a pound of powder sugar, set the pan on a moderate fire to dry the paste, which will besufficiently soif, when you touch it, it no longer sticks to your finger, then take it out and place it on a plate Or wafer paper, previously sprinkled with sugar : as soon as it is cold cut it in pieces, which roll in your hand to the size of your little finger ; form them into rings, and lay them on iron gratings, glaze and put them into a brisk oven to colour. The above paste may also be employed as follows: roll it out and cut it in half, spread over one piece apricot marmalade, or any other preserve you please, cover it with the other piece, cut it into lozenges, crescents, &c., accord- ing to your fancy, lay them on the grating as above, glaze and colour them in a quick oven. MARIGOLDS, Conserve o/.—Take four ounces of marigold-flowers, conserve of hyacinth and hermes, of each four drachms, the powder of pearl two ounces, and as much syrup of citron as will make them into a conseive, mixing and bruising them together with refined sugar. MARINADE Cuite.*—Cut three car- rots and four onions in slices, put them into a stew-pan with some butter, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two cloves ; set these on the fire ; when the carrots and onions are done, add some parsley and scallions, a dessert spoonful of flour, a glass of vinegar, two of stock, salt, and pepper. Simmer the marinade for three quarters of an hour, then strain it through a horse-hair sieve, and set it by for use. M A RJO RAM Conserve. — Take the tops and tenderest part of sweet marjo- ram, bruise it well in a wooden mortar or bowl; take double its weight of fine sugar, boil it with marjoram-water till it is as thick ns syrup, then put in your beaten marjoram. Marjoram, Essence (/.—Take some marjoram, pick ofl‘ the leaves and lay them to dry in a warm place for about a couple of hours, then take a large 2 F 3MAR ( 330 ) MAR mouthed bottle, and put the leaves into it; let the bottle befilledwiih them, and pour upon them wine, brandy, proof- spirit, or vinegar, and let them steep for fourteen days. Maiuouam Sweet, to preserve.—Beat up very well the white of an egg, tlien beat very fine and sift some double-re- fined sugar: take some marjoram and rub it on a glass that is quite clean, and lay it in the form of the glass ; so do it with the egg, then sear it with the sugar on it, and lay it on paper to dry. marmalade.*—Marmalade may be composed of al most an y fruits; the best, however, for this purpose are, apricots, peaches, oranges, q uinces, egg- plums, ap- ples, &c. They are usually made by boil- ing the fruit and sugar together to a kind of pulp, stirring them constantly whilst on the fire : it is kept in pots, which must not be covered till the marmalade is quite cold. The proportion of sugar is half a pound to each pound of fruit. Marmalade, Transparent. — Take some very pale Seville oranges, and cut them into quarters, take out the pulp, put it into a bason and take nut all the skin and seeds; put the peels into alittle salt and water, and leave them to soak in it all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till they are tender; cut them in extremely thin slices and add them to the pulps. To every pound of the marmalade, put a pound and a half of double-refined sugar finely sifted, and boil them togetlier gently for twenty minutes. If it is not sufficiently clear, boil or simmer it for five or six minutes longer, keep stirring it gently all the time, and take greatcare you do not break the slices. When cold, put it into jelly or sweetmeat glasses, and tie them down closely with brandy paper. MARROW Bones.—Chop the bones at each end so as to stand steady, then wash them clean, saw them in halves, cover the top with a floured cloth : boil them, and serve with dry toast. Marrow Cream.*—Pound an ounce of sweet almonds with a little milk, press out the milk from the almonds, which use whilst pounding two ounces of beef- marrow, and some lemon-peel ; beat up the yolks of six eggs in warm milk, and add them to the marrow ; mix the whole with a quart of good milk, strain it into a saucepan, set it on the fire, stirring constantly till it thickens, then pour it into small cups or moulds, and put them in a cool place, and turn them out when to be sent to table. Marrow with Eggs.some beef- jnarrow, pound it well with eggs boiled hard, season them with pepper,salt,nut- meg,^ and sweet herbs; when well mixed roll it up into little balls, wrap each in thin paste, dip them in batter, and fry them. Marrow Fritters.*—Boil some beef- marrow with ?. glass of stock till reduced to a thin paste, which pour into flat saucers to about the thickness of a crown piece; when cool turn them out, dip each into a batter made of cream-cheese, pounded with a little milk, two handsful of flour and an egg ; fry these fritters, either in oil, lard, or butter ; w’hichever you use, however, should be boiling. Marrow Pasties.—Take the marrow from three marrow-bones, a little thyme, winter savory, and sweet marjoram, the yolks of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of currants, a little rose-water and some nutmeg; work all these together, and put them into a pasty of puff-paste, and fry them in lard. Marrow Pasties.—Shred some apples with some marrow, add ?. little sugar to them, make them up in puff paste, and fry tliern in clarified butter ; when fried strew some sugar over them, and serve. Marrow, Patties of.* — Blanch and pound four ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with orange-flower- Avater; when reduced to a paste, mix it Avith a handful of flour, a drop of Aram Avater, and the yolks of three eggs ; with this line a number of shallow moulds, dorez and bake them in a slow oven. Wlien done, take them out and put in each a little cream made with beef-mar- roAv, lemon-peel, and cream, not laid on thicker than a crown piece ; cover it Avitb a spoonful of Avhiteof egg wliipped to a snow ; strcAv sifted sugar over, and serve them very hot. Marrow Pudding.—Grate the crumb of a French roll, put to it a pint of cream, a pound of marroAV sliced, four eggs, sugar and nutmeg, according to taste, two ounces of citron sliced ; three-quar- ters of an hour Avill be sufficient to hake it ; you may add currants, if you think proper. Marrow Pudding.—Boil with a quart of new milk, cinnamon and lemon-peel, and strain it to half a pound of beef- roarroAv finely chopped, a fCAV currants washed and picked, some slices of citron and orange-peel candied, a little grated nutmeg, brandy, syrup of cloves, a table spoonful of each, and half a pound of Naples biscuits. When the mixture is cold, add eight eggs beat up, omitting five of the wliites, and bake it in a dish Avith puff-paste round it. . , , Marroav Pudding.*—Soak beef-mar- row in cold AA'ater for twelve hours, thenMAR ( 331 ) MAT clear away all the pellicles,andbeatit with ji wooden spoon m a little orange-flower water till of the consistence of thick cream. Take some double cream, mix the marrow with it, add a little mace, nutmeg and cinnamon, and boil it. Blanch and pound eight ounces of sweet almonds, moistening them with cream, press the milk from them, and mix with it the whites of three eggs, well whipped, the yolks of ten ; beat the whole well, and then put to it the marrow cream, half a pound of powder sugar, a little salt, and a sufficient quantity of sifted flour to make it of the proper consistence ; tie it in a buttered cloth, and put it into boiling water. When done, serve it with melted butter, orange-flower-water, and white wine. Marrow Sausages.* — Mince equal quantities of beef-marrow, fresh pork, and noix of veal; season the mixture well; add sweet herbs, if you like; tie them up in sheep’s cauls, and . make your sausages either flat, oval, or round, according to your taste. Marrow Toasts.*—Make a farce with some breast of fowl pounded with herbs, and mixed with yolks of eggs and veal gravy ; boil some beef marrow in stock, let it cool, and then cut it in pieces: spread layers of farce on some slices of fried bread, place the pieces of marrow on it (but not near enough to touch each other) cover them with another layer of ‘ farce; strew bread crumbs over, and colour them in the Dutch oven. Marrow, Tourteof.*—Take a quarter of a pound of beef-marrow, clear away all bones and fibres, blanch it in a little water; bruise and mix it with some frangipane., and finish the tourte in the same manner as tourte of frangipane. Marrow Txmhlers.—Set on the fire a pint of cream, three eggs, and some powder-sugar ; let them boil for half an hour, stirring constantly, then add some beef-marrow shred very small, a few pounded macaroons, a little grated lemon- peel, the yolks of two eggs, and the • whites of four whisked to a froth, and a few drops of orange-flower water, still stirring till all is well mixed ; then have ready some small plain moulds about an inch and half deep, butter them well, put a spoonful of cream in each, and bake them ; serve either plain or with non- areils. The same preparation may also e served as a tourte, but it must not be covered ; when baked, strew powder- sugar over, and glaze with the salaman- der. MARSEILLES, or Ginger.*—Take a pound and a half of double-refined sugar, and boil it to fort souffle., add to it an ounce of ginger in powder, remove the pan from the fire, and with a round stick (like a plain round rule) stir the sugar, inclining the stick towards the sides of the pan, then with a spoon take the sugar that sticks to the edges and put it amongst the liquid, then work it up again with the slick, remove the solid sugar as before, and repeat this operation four times, when it will have become tole- rably thick and firm ; pour it into paper cases, about half an inch thick, and with a fork trace on its surface, whilst warm, lozenges of what size you please ; after- wards, with the point of a knife, mark some of these deeper than the others ; when quite cold, take them out of the papers, and separate them, where the lines are deepest. The Marseilles, if preserved in a warm or dry place, will keep good for a long time. Marseilles Spiced.*—Take a pound and a half of fine sugar, boil it to casse ; take a quarter of preserved orange-peel, the same of candied lemon-peel, (or, if you like it better, two ounces of blanched pistachio nuts), cut them into dice, and put them with half an ounce of cloves, the same of cinnamon (both pounded) into the sugar, stir them in gently, con- tinue to boil your syrup to forte plume; then beat it up, pour it into cases, and finish as the Marseilles. MATELOTE au Bouillon.*—Take the wings of turkey-poults, pheasants, or partridges, with some pieces of wild rab- bits, Iamb, and slices of bacon-; put them into a stewpan with equal quantities of stock and champagne, half a_ glass of olive-oil, salt, pepper, and garlic; cover the pan close, and stew till reduced to cottri houillon ; then lay the pieces on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If it should be too thick, add a glass of con- somtne. Matelote of Butcher’s Meat.*—Take beef, veal, mutton, and pork, a large slice of each, and a small one of leg of lamb; cut them in small pieces, which put into a saucepan with equal quantities of stock and champaign, salt and spices, cover them very close, and set them on hot ashes for six hours, then serve it. Matelote d la Calonne.*—Take six fowl pinions, a dozen cray-fish, some veal sweetbreads, pieces of rabbit, and a large eel, stuck with anchovies, and cut in pieces, three inches long, small onions, morels, streaked bacon, pepper, salt, and a glass of stock, set these, except the eel and pinions, on a slow fire for half an hour; then add a pint of champaign, some more stock, and two spoonsful of oil, and keep them on the fire ; put the eel and pinions into a separate saucepan.M E A 332 ME A and when three parts done, add them to the rest, and finisli slewing ; aa soon as the matelote is sufficiently thick, take tlie pieces out with a fork, arrange them on a dish according to your taste; lay fried bread round, and in the centre the sauce and court bouilloti. Matelote Hollandoise.*—Take a neck of veal, two young pigeons, a small fowl or capon, and some turkey’s pinions: put them into a saucepan with some good stock ;■ set them on the fire till about half done, then add a quarter of a pound of rice; cover the whole very close, and let it stew over a small fire for two hours, then take it off’, pour the whole into a dish, and serve it. Matelote Proven(;ale. * — Take a leveret and a brace of partridges, half roast, and cut them in pieces; take also some small soles, smelts, or any other kind of fish; put them all into a sauce- pan together with a glass of champaign, two of stock, salt, pepper, oil, and six doves of garlic bruised ; boil them to a court-bouillon, as other matelotes', dish them, garnished with veal sweetbreads in consomme. MEAD.—To one hundred and twenty gallons of pure water (the softer the bet- ter), put fifteen gallons of clarified honey ; well mix the honey with the water, then fill your copper, (it should hold about sixty gallons), and boil it till it is reduced about a fourth part; then drain it off, and boil the remainder of the liquar in the same manner. When the last is about a fourth part wasted, fill up the copper with some of that which was boiled first; and continue boiling and filling it up till the copper contains the whole of the liquor, by which time it will, of course, be half evaporated. The scum must not be taken off, but must well mix with the liquor whilst boiling, by means of a jet; when this is done, draw it off into under backs, by a cock at the bottom of the copper, and let it re- main till it is only as warm as new milk. Then turn it up, and suffer it to ferment in the vessel, where it will form a thick head. As soon as it has done working, stop it down very close, to keep the air from it as much as possible. When it is half a year old, put it into bottles, have it well worked, and keep it in the same vault it stood whilst in the c.ask. Those who like mead to have an aromatic fla- vour, may mix with it elder, rosemary, and marjoram flowers, and use cinnamon, cloves, ginger, pepper, and cardamums, in various proportions, according to taste. Others put in a mixture of thyme, eglan- tine, marjoram, and rosemary, witli va- rious spices. Mead, to Make.*—To every gallon of water pu t four pounds of honey, boil it an hour. Then put it into a tub with some yeast on a toast; coveritover. Ifitfer- inents well after three or four days, draw itofl’clear, and put it into a cask, with one lemon sliced to every gallon ; add a bot- tle of brandy to every ten gallons. The rind of Seville oranges cut very thin, suspended in the barrel, is a great im- provement to the flavour. It is best to wash the cask round with part of the brandy, before the liquor is put in. Mead Frontiniac.—TaVt fifty pounds of honey, fifty pounds of fine raisins, and fifty gallons of water; boil these about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed; put it in a tub to work, and put to it a pint of ale yeast, letting it work until the yeast begins to fall; when taken clear ofti turn it with the raisins, and throw into the cask a quart of white elder flowers ; take care to attend to it in change of weather; let it continue in the cask for twelve months, and then fine it down with wine fining, and put it into bottles. Mead Sack.—To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, carefully skimming it. To every gallon add one ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till the following day; then put it into a cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Stop it lightly till the fermen- tation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it in the cask for tw’elve months. Mead, to make sjnall.—To a gallon of water put wo pounds of honey, and one pound of sugar; boil it for an liour, put in the whites of four eggs to raise the scum ; skim it quite clean whilst boiling, then put it into a clean tub, and let it stand for a week, putting in a toast wi^ honey, to make it work ; then turn it, and put in the peels of three or four lemons, and let it stand a month; and then if it is not sufficiently fine, put in more honey, and let it stand longer. MEAT (’«Xes.—Take whatever meat, game, or poultry, you may chance to have, (it is the better for l>eing under done); mince it fine, adding a little fat bacon or ham, or anchovy ; season with a little pepper and salt; mix the whole well together, and make it into small cakes, about three inches in length, an inch and a half in width, and half an inch thick; fry them of a light brown, and serve them with good gravy; or put it into a mould, and Iwil or bake it. Meat, to keep it hot.—\f your meat is( 333 ) MIL MEL done before yori are ready to serve, take it up, set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it, so as not to touch the meat, and then put a cloui over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. Meat Patties. —The tins should be about the .size of a small teacup, but not so deep; lay pud-paste at llie bottom, put in some forcemeat, and cover it with pud-paste; bake them a light brown, turn them out; five or seven make a side-dish. MELON Fritters.—Cnt a melon into small pieces, (remove the seeds and rind), soak them in brandy and sugar for half an hour; then drain them well, dip each piece in pod batter, and fry them. Serve them with sugar sifted over. Melon Fromage Bavarois.*—Cut a moderate sized melon into slices, from which take the rind and seeds; cut the fruit small, and reduce it to a marma- lade with half a pound of clarified sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass, stir it well, and place it on ice; as soon as it begins to thicken, mix a plate of whipped cream with it, and finish as usual. Melon Mangoes.— There is a parti- cular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know. Cut a square small piece out of one side, and through that take out all the seeds, mix them with mustard-seeds and shred garlic, stuff the melon with them, as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with small pack-thread. Boil a sufficient quantity of vinegar to allow for wasting, with pep per, salt, and ginger,and pour it boiling hot over the mangoes, for four successive days; the last day you pour it over, add flour of mustard, and scraped horse-radish, into the vine- gar, just as it boils up. Stop close. Be careful there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are spoiled if not kept well covered with vinegar, and the greater number of times the boiling vinegar is poured over the mangoes, the sooner it will be ready for use. Large cucumbers, called green Turley, prepared in the same manner as above, are very good, and come sooner into eating. Melons fo Preserve for Cookery.—Boil two parts of water, and one ofvinegar, with salt, cloves (and other spice if you like), in proportion ; in the meanwhile take some small melons, wipe them with a cloth, and put them into a saucepan ; pour the above mixture, whilst boiling, over them, and set them on ashes till the next day ; then renew the fire, and keep them for several days, until the melons become quite green, then put them into pots. and when cold,_cover them close; they should he kept in a cool place. _ Melons (fo preserve like Ginger).*— Haifa pound of ginger to one pound of melon; scrape the ginger, and save the scrapings ; pour a quart of boiling water on the ginger, let it stand two days : scald the melon (with the scrapings of the ginger in the water), taking care not to make it too soft: cut it into small pieces resembling ginger; then prepare a syrup, half a pound of sugar to a pint of water; boil the ginger in it; when cold, put in the melon, and set it over the fire for a short time, but not to boil; let the syrup, with the ginger, be boiled every day for a fortnight, hut not poured upon the melon till nearly cold; then boil a rich syrup to keep it in. N.B. — Carrot is equally good with melon. MERINGUES.—Whisk the whites of nine eggs to a solid froth ; then add the rind of six lemons, grated extremely fine, and a spoonful of sifted sugar; after which, lay a sheet of wet paper on a tin, and with a spoon drop the rnixture in little lumps,separately upon it, sift su- gar over, and put them to bake in a moderately heated oven, taking care that they are done of a nice colour. Then put raspberry, apricot, or .any other kind of jam between two of these bottoms, add them together, and lay them in a warm place, or before the fire to dry. Meringues.*—Take the whites of twelve eggs, six ounces of the best lump sugar, pounded and sifted, and half a pound of pistachios ; blanch and beat the latter in a mortar, with a little white of egg, to a very fine paste. Whisk the whites of eggs to a snow, then add the sugar, and pistachio paste, mix them well, but very lightly, and when they are thoroughly incorporated, put some sheets of paper on tin plates, lay your prepara- tion on the paper, with a spoon, lay the meringues^ at least an inch apart ; sprinkle sifted sugar over them, and put them into a moderate oven or stove ; when done, detach them gently from the paper with a knife, and place them on a sieve in a dry place. .Just before they are_ sent to table, fill each witli a little whipped cream, to which add a small quantity of either orange-flower, rose, or vanilla water. _ MIGNONETTE.—A mignonette con- sists of the long pepper, ginger, cinna- mon, cloves, coriander, and mace, tied together, in a bit of linen cloth. MILK-PORIUDGE.—Make a fine gruel of half grits, boiled a long time; strain ofl'; either add cold milk, or warm it with milk : serve with toast.( 334 ) M I N M I L Milk Porridge {French).~^\^T Bome oatmenl and water togetlier, leave it to stand till it is clear, then pour off' the latter ; pour fresh water upon it, stir it well, let it stand till the following day; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing; the pro- portion of water should be small. Milk, Potage of.*—Put on the fire some milk, with a little sugar, and a bay leaf; add, as soon ns it boils, the yolks of three eggs, then take it offi and set it aside. Whip the whites of eggs to a snow, poach them in a little of the milk; soak your bread in the remainder, put it into the tureen, with the poached whites on the top, sprinkle them with sugar, and colour them with the salamander. Milk Punch.* — Beat up two eggs well, mix them in a quart of milk, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon-peel to your taste ; boil it gently, stirring it all the. time till thick enough ; take it off the fire a very few minutes, then add to it a full quarter of a pint of rum. It must be stirred all the time the rum is pouring in, or it will not be good. _ Milk Punch.—Pare six oranges, and six lemons, as thin as you possiUy can, grate them after with sugar to obtain the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy, slopped close for four and twenty hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add four quarts of water to it, and one quart of new milk, boiling hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag until it is quite clear : bottle and cork it close im- mediately. Milk Punch fvr present Drinking.— To two quarts of water, put two quarts of French brandy, a dozen and half of lemons, three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar, and three pints of new milk; strain it frequently through a jelly-bag, till it is clear and fine ; it must be made two or three days before you use it, and may be bottled off. _Milk5okjb.—Take two quarts of new milk, with two sticks of cinnamon, a couple of bay leaves, a very little basket salt, and a little sugar ; put all into a etewpan to warm ; while heating, blanch halfa pound of sweet almonds, beat them to a paste in a mortar; mix them by de- grees with some milk, and while heating, add to them the peel of a lemon, grated, and a little of the juice; then strain it through a coarse sieve, and mix it with the milk that is heating in the stewpan, and let it boil up. Cut some slices of French bread, and dry them before the fire ; let them soak a little in the milk ; lay them at the bottomoftheturecn,and pour in the soup. Milk Soup Lie.*—Put a quart of milk on the fire, and when it boils, add to it sugar to your taste, a pinch of salt, and four eggs, keep it on the fire, stirr- ing till you find it thicken and adhere to the spoon (the milk must not boil); cut some very light bread into pieccF, soak them in the usual way, substituting milk for broth, pour the soup over and serve. Milk Smip au Safrari.*—Scald and drain some rice, put it into a quart of boiling milk, adding six grains of saffron in powder ; let it boil over a slow fire for an hour and a half, and then serve it quite hot. Milk Vinegar.*—Put six spoonsful of good brandy into a large bottle full of milk; cork it well, and expose it in a warm place for a month, opening it occasion- ally on account of the fermentation ; at the end of that time the milk will have become very good vinegar ; strain it through a cloth, and keep it in bottles. Milk fVater.—Take two handsful of wormwood, the same of carduus, ditto of rue, ditto of angelica ; mint and balm, of each four handsful; cut them a little, put them into a cold still, and add to them three quarts of milk ; let your fire be quick till the still drops, then slacken if. you may driiw off two quarts; the first quart will keep all the year. MILLET — Wash three spoonsful of the seed ; put it into a dish, with a crust round the edges ; pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, add two ounces of butter, warmed, sugar, shred lemon, and a very little ginger and nutmeg, grated; a« you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs, beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. hliLLET Pudding.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter, and spread it at the bottom of a dish, then put in six ounces of millet, with a quarter of a pound of sugar; pour over it three pints of milk, and bake it. Mince P/e.— Weigh two pounds of scraped beef, free from skin and strings, of suet, picked and chopped, four pounds, then add six pounds of currants, nicely cleaned, and perfectly dried, three pounds of chopped apples, the peel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of mace, the same of pimentos, in the finest powder; mix the whole well together, and put it into a pan, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. , , Have some citron, or.nnge, and lemon peel, ready; and put some of each in the pies when made. Mince P/e.,' u'ithout Meat. —Take a pound of currants, a pound of apples,MIN ( 335 ) M 0 R chopped fine, a pound of moist sugar, a pound of suet, well chopped, a quarter of a pound of raisins, stoned and chopped small; the juice of four Seville oranges, the juice of two lemons, the rind of one shred fine, nutmeg, and mace,according to taste, and a glass of brandy, mix all well together, put it in a pan, and keep it closely tied up. Mint, Crhne o/.*—Put into the ham- marie alembic, a gallon of brandy, twelve ounces of fresh-gathered mint, and the rinds of three lemons j distil from this two quarts of liqueur, in which dissolve one drachm of essence of mint; put a pound and half of sugar into two quarts of water, and when entirely dissolved, add the syrup to your liqueur, strain and bottle it. Mint {distilled) Liqueur of.*—Take two handsful of fresh gathered garden mint, and infuse it for some days in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water I then distil it as usual. Dis- solve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water, mix the syrup with the liqueur, and run the whole through a jelly bag. Mint {essence of) Jelly.*—Put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar into a preserving p.an, and when nearly boiling, throw into it twelve drachms of fresh gathered mint, and the rinds of two lemons; cover it and leave it to get luke- warm ; dissolve half a drachm of essence of mint in a glass of tepid water, add half a glass of kirschenwasser, mix these with the lukewarm sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass, also lukewarm; strain the whole through a silk sieve, and finish as usual. Mint {green) Vinegar.—Take half an ounce of mint, dry and pound it, pour over it a quart of the best vinegar, and let it steep for ten days, shaking it up every day. Mint (Orange) Water.—Take a still full of orange mint, distil it in a cold still, and put fresh orange mint into the water; distil it, again, and put your bot- tles into the still unstopped ; a spoonful of this water put into a glass of spring water, will perfume it as well as orange flower water. Mint Sauce.—Take nice fresh mint, chop it small, and mix it with vinegar and sugar. Mi.nt SnuJJlas Franqais.*—Take some fresh gathered mint leaves, put them, with the rinds of two lemons, into the milk, when nearly boiling ; strain and finish as usual. See Souffles Franqais. Mint Water. — Take four pounds of dried mint, two gallons and a half of proof spirits, and three gallons of water; distil them, and sweeten the water with a pound and a half of sugar. MIRLITONS.*—Put into a pan two yolks, and two whole eggs, four ounces of powder sugar, three ounces of sweet macaroons crushed, half an ounce of crisped orange-flowers in powder, and _a grain of salt; stir these together a mi- nute, then add two ounces of melted but- ter; whip the two whites very firm, and put them also to the preparation. Line thirty tartlet moulds with puff-paste, into each of which pour an equal quan- tity of the above ; cover them with sifted sugar, and when that is dissolved, strew over a little sugar, d la grile ; and-put them into a moderate oven : serve either hot or cold. Moor Game, see Fowl. MORELS.*—The morel is a kind of mushroom, and is usually dressed in the same manner. For a ragofit or garnish, they are prepared as follows : —Having taken off their stalks, split the largest morels into two or three pieces; wash and put them into a basin of warm water to free them from the sand and earth ; then blanch, drain, and put them into a stewpan, with_ a piece of butter and lemon-juice, give them a few turns, and moisten with either brown or vrhite sauce. Morels with Bacon. — Cut about quarter of a pound of bacon into slices, put it into a stewpan and set it on the fire; when done, take some large mo- rells, wash them thoroughly, cut each in half, and put them into the same pan (having removed the baron) ; add a lit- tle butter, and give them a few turns ; then take them out, soak them in melted butter or oil, with chopped parsley, slialots, whole peper, and salt; in about half an hour, drain and roll them in bread-crumbs, put on small skewers, lay them on a gridiron, broil slowly, bast- ing occasionally with the butler, bacon, fat, and the marinade ; lay the slices of bacon on a dish, and the morels on them. Morels with Cream.*—The morels being thoroughly washed, cut them in halves or quarters, according to their size; stew them with butter, salt, and a little water ; when they are nearly done, add some good cream, mix it in well, finish them, and serve the morels quite hot. Morels with Ci-mite.*—Pick, and cut the morels in halves, wash them in se- veral waters ; boil, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley and scallions; fry them lightly, then add a little flour and con-, sommo, reduce them ; take out the par-MUL ( 336 ) MUF elpy and scallions, thicken with the yolk of an egg beaten up with cream, add a small quantity of powder-sugar; serve them with a crust prepared as for mush- rooms. Mobels in Gravy.*—Having cut, well washed, and drained your morels, put tliem into a saucepan with oil, salt, and pepper; let them boil for half an hour; then add some veal gravy and a little wine; then simmer them till sufficiently done; serve them with the sauce, if the latter be too thick squeeze lemon-juice into it. Mobels to Keep. — They should be dried slowly, put into paper bags, and kept in a dry place. Morels, Stuffed.*—Choose, the largest and most round-shaped morels, and hav- ing washed and drained, dry them in a cloth; fill each with a little fine farce. and stew them with slices of bacon and veal; when nearly done, pour on them a little veal gravy. Serve very hot. Morels and Triffes. — Morels and truffles are used for thickening soups and sauces, and to give them a fine fla- vour. Wash half an ounce of each, then let them simmer a few minutes in water, and add them, with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, &c. till tender. MOUNTAIN IVine.—Take somevery fine Malaga raisins, pick out all the stalks, and chop them very fine, and to every ten pounds of the raisins put two gallons of water. Let them steep three weeks, stirring them frequently during that time ; then squeeze out the liquor, and put it into a vessel that will just hold it, but be careful not to stop it till it has done hissing; then bung it up close, and it will be fit for use in about six months. MUFFINS.—Mix two pounds of flour with a couple of eggs, two ounces of but- ter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonsful of yeast; beat it thorouglily, and set it to rise two or three hours. Bake it on a hot hearth in flat cakes, and turn them, when done, on one side. Muffins.—Take two quarts of warm warm water, twospoonsful of yeast, three iKtunds of flour ; heat it well for half an nour, and lot it stand an hour or tivo; bake them on an iron baking-stove (rub it well over with mutton-suet as often as they are laid on); as soon as they begin to colour, turn them; they will be suf- ficiently baked when coloured on both sides. AIuFFiN Pudding with dried Cherries. 7'ake a pint and a half of milk, add to it a few coriander-seeds, a bit of lemon- peel, sugar according t'l taste, and boil them together for ten minutes; then put four muffins into a pan, sti-ain the milk over them, and when they are cold, mash them with a wooden spoon ; add half a gill of brandy, half a pound of dried cher- ries, a little grated nutmeg, two ounces of sweet almonds, blanched and pounded extremely fine, and six eggs well beaten. Mix all together and boil in a basin, or bake it in a dish with paste all round. MULBERRIES, Preserved. — Boil three quarters of a pound of sugar to grand perle ; then put to it a pound of mulberries, stir them in carefully, with- out letting them boil; then take the pan by the handle and roll the fruit about in the sugar for a few minutes; pour them into a basin, and let tliem stand ; the next day drain ofi the sugar, boil it to the above-mentioned degree; add the fruit, and proceed as above, and then pour it into puts ; do not cover them till quite cold. Mulberries, to preserve Dry,—Your mulberries must not be too dry, butmust look rather a reddish green, and taste tart; prepare the same quantity of sugar au souffle A6 of fruit; put in the mulber- ries and let them boil; the sugar must be first clarified with mulberry juice in- stead of water ; when they have boiled, take the pan from the fire, skim it, and set it in a stove till next day ; then take them out, drain them from the syrup, and put them up in boxes for use. Mulberries, Ratafia of.*—Take two gallons of brandy, a quart of water, three pounds and a half of sugar, three pounds of mulberries, half a pound of red cur- rants, the same of raspberries, and half a drac hm of mace. Take the seeds from tlie_ currants, mix, and crush all the fruits, the juice from which, with the mace, infuse in the brandy fifteen or eighteen days. Dissolve the sumf in the water, mix the syrup with the brandy, filter and bottle it. Mulberry Syrup.—Put some mulber- ries into a jug, tie a paper over it, and then put it up to the neck in a kettle of water; let it boil; as the liquor rises from the mulberries, pouritofl, strain it, and to one pint of the liquor put one pound of loaf sugar ; set it over a slow fire, boil it gently till it becomes about the consistence of treacle; then take it oil'and bottle it. Mulberries, Syrup of.* — Take ns many mulberries as will yield three pints of juice, which put into a preserving- pan with three pints of water; boil until this quantity is reduced to one pint; then lay the fruit on a sieve to drain. Cl trlfy three pounds of sugar, teil it to bouilfc ; then add the mulberry-juice ; give them one boil, and skim them. Pour the2 G M US (31 syrup into a pan, and let it stand; when cold, bottle It. MuDDEanv fl^ine.—Take mulberries when they are just changed from their redness to shiniiigblack, gather them on a dry day, when the sun has taken oti the dew, spread them thinly on a fine cloth on a floor or table for twenty-four hours, and boil up a gallon of water to each gallon of juice ; skim the water well, andadd alittle cinnamon slightly bruised; put to every gallon six ounces of white sugar-candy, finely beaten ; skim and strain the water when it is taken oR and settled, and put to it the juice of the mulberries, and to every gallon of the mixture, put a pint of wiiite or rheiiisb wine; let them stand five or six days in a cask to settle ; then drawoff' the wine, and keep it cool. This is a very rich cordial. MULLET, to Choose.—The sea mal- lets are' better than the river-mullets, and the red are considered better than the grey ; to be good they should be very firm. They are in season in August. Mullet, Boiled.—Boil mullets in salt and water; when they are done, pour away part of the water, 'and put to the rest a pint of red wine, some salt and vinegar, two onions sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, nutmeg, beaten mace, and the juice of a lemon; boil these well to- gether, with two or three anchovies; then put in the fish; and when they have simmered in it some time, put them into a dish and strain the sauce over them. Shrimps or oysters may be added. Mullet Broiled.—Scale and gut them, and cut gashes in their sides, dip them in melted butter, and broil them at a great distance from the fire ; serve with anchovy sauce with capers, and a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon. Mkllets Fried.—Scale and gut them, P'.ur some melted butter into a deep dish, score the mullets across the back, and dip them into the butter; then put some butter in a stewpan, clarify it, fry the mullets in it; when they are done, lay them on a warm dish, and serve with anchovy sauce. Mullet (/ferf).—Eed mullet is called the sca-’voodcock. Clean it, but do not take out the inside ; fold in oiled paper, and gently hake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor whicli comes from the fish, adding a bit of liulter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil, and serve it in a sauce-boat, and serve the fish in the paper cases. . MUSCADINE Ices.—Put an ounce of elder flower into a saboliere, pour upon it about half a pint of boiling water, then 7 ) M U S put on the lid of the saboliere, and let it draw for about half an hour, make a com- position precisely as it were a lemon ice ; to this composition add the infusion ot elder-flower, pass the whole through a sieve, and put it into the saboliere to congeal. MUSCLES f}7«ers.*—Take them out of their shells, and after many wasliings, steep them for two hours in a quart of vinegar, some w.vter, and a little butter rolled in flour, with salt, pepper, parsley, green onions, tarragon, garlic, a little carrot and parsnip, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil, tlie whole m.ade luke warm; then take out the muscles, dry and dip them in a batter made of flour, white wine, a spoonful of oil, and salt, and fry them. Muscle Kelchtip. — Take fiue_ fresh muscles, wash them in their own liquor, pound them in a marble mortar ; to a pint of muscles add a pint of sherry, then give them a boil up, add one ounce of salt, two drachms of mace well pound- ed, and one ounce of cayenne ; give the whole one boil, skim it, and rub it tlirough a sieve ; let it siand to cool, and when cold put it into bottles ; cork it carefully, and seal it down. Muscles d la Minnie.*—Clean and take away the shells as directed for la Poulelte, draw off' all tlie water except what is necessary to cook them in, add a little butter and shred parsley, shake them up a minute or two, and then serve, with a squeeze of lemon. Muscr.ES d la Poulette.*—The mus- cles being thoroughly washed, put them into a pan without any water, and fry them lightly over a brisk fire; as they open, remove tlie shells, strain the liquor from them through a silk sieve. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan, and some shred scallions, give them a few turns on the fire, then add a little parsley, and afterwards a dessert spoonful of flour; mix this well with the butter, and pour in the. liquor from the mu.sclcs, season witli pepper and nutmeg ; give the whole a few boils, thicken it with two or tliree yolks of eggs, and put in the muscles, make, them quite hot,butdo not let them boil. Dish them, and squeeze lemon- juice over them. INluscLES {Ragoitl o/).—Open them, melt a little butter in a stewpan, fry the. muscles a minute with a little chopped parsley, shake a little Ilnur over them, put in a little cream, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and lemon-juice; bod them up. If you wish tliem to be brown, instead of cream you should put good gravy. Muscles in Soiyj.*—Take the liquor that flows from the muscles when they open over the fire, and strain it through338 M U S M US a fine napkin, put it into some good stock, and beat up the yolks of six eggs, and add to it; thicken over the fire, and mix the whole with some consomme soup when ready to serve, arranging the mus- cles round tlie dish. Muscles, Tourte of,—Line a dish with puft-paste, put at the bottom a layer of good farce, then (having washed the muscles well) put them into a saucep.an, take away the shells as they open, leave in the fish, and let them stew in their own liquor with butter, shalots, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; lay them on the farce, cover and bake the tourte, and serve with bechamel. MUSHROOMS <oc/«oose.—Themush- rooms proper to be used in cookery grow in the open pasture land, for those that frow near or under trees, are poisonous. 'he eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very rapidly, and the upper part and stalk are white. As they increase in size, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edge and mid- dle, and whether they have a pleasant smell. Those which are poisonous have a yellow skin, and the under part has not the clear flesh colour of the real mush- room ; besides which, they smell rank and disagreeable, and the fur is white or yellow. Mushrooms a laBourgeoise.*—V\c\:,, trim, and cut the mushrooms in halves ; put some slices of streaky bacon into a stewpan, and set it on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, then add the mushrooms, parsley, scallions, shalots (chopped), pepper, a pinch of flour, a little stock and white wine; stew the whole gently, and when reduced to a thick sauce, pour it on fried bread, and serve with vinegar or lemon juice. Mushrooms Broiled- — Choose the largest sort; pepperand salt them well, lay them on a small gridiron with the stalk upwards, broil them rather quick, and serve them with good gravy. Mush ROOMS Ml Cannellon.—Chop some mushrooms into dice, put them into a stewpan, with sliced parsley, scallions, shalots, and some butter; when a little browned, add stock, pepper, and salt; let it simmer till the mushrooms are done, and the. sauce pretty thick, then put in the yolks of three eggs, and a little lemon-juice ; set it by to cool; in .the menu lime, roll some paste very thin, cut it in pieces, in each of which put some of the above, moisten the edges, and roll them up into the form of short sausages, flour and fry them. Mushroosis (i la Crime. — Choose those which are small, and boil them a few minutes in some good cream-sauce ; toast the crust of a rasped French roll, fill it with the mushrooms, turn it over on the dish, and pour the remainder over it. Mushrooms with Crust.—Take some mushrooms, wash, but do not peel them ; then put them with a few spoonsful of good oil,into a frying-pan, and heat them for seven or eight minutes over a quick fire. Whilst they are cooking, add pep- per, salt, grated nutmeg, and shred pars- ley and shalots; then pour the whole over a fried crust, and serve imme- diately. Mushrooms to Dry.—Wipe them quite clean, and take out the brown aad pare otf the skin of the large ones ; lay them on paper, and put them in a cool oven M dry, keep them in paper bags in a very dry place. When wanted for use, sim- mer them in gravy, and they will swell to nearly their former size ; or you may simmer them in their own liquor till it dries up into them, shaking the pan, then dry them on tin plates with spice or not, as you think proper. Tie down with a bladder, and keep them in a dry place, or in paper. Mushrooms and Eggs.*—Mince some morels or mushrooms very small, put them into a stewpan with some rich gravy, and do them till properly flavoured and the gravy pretty thick, then pour on them the yolks of twelve eggs, and the whites of eight, season moderately, and beat them constantly whilst on the fire ; serve them very hot. Mushrooms Fricasseed.— Peel some mushrooms, if they are large, cut them in pieces, wash them in cold water, with some vinegar, and blanch them ; after- wards dip them again into cold water, and wipe them dry. Then heat them over the fire, with a bit of butter rolled in flour, some salt, pepper, and a hunch of parsley; moisten with hot water or stock, aiid just before serving, thicken with the yolk of an egg, and half a tea- spoonful of vinegar. Mushrooms, to keep.*—The mush- rooms for keeping should be of a in<^e- rate size ; lay them on hurdles, or string, and bang them up in a dry place, where there is a free circulation of air, but no sun : if you wish to dry them by a quicker process, lay them in an oven; ^diomd you have any large ones, take ofl the tops and stems, and cut them in slices ;I MUS when perfectly dry, put them into bags, which keep in a dry open place, shaking them often. Another method of preserving mush- rooms is, by putting them either in oil, saltwater, or vinegar, with garlic, pep- per, and salt, and when they arc wanted, soak them in warm water or milk. Mushrooms, to keep*_—Choose your mushrooms very white, firm, and fresh gathered, pick and wash them ; then put them into a ste.wpan with some good fresh butter, or tiie best olive oil; set the pan on tlie fire, and leave them until they have given out all their water, and then until that water is half evaporated, they may then be taken from the fire and pul into a pan ; when cold, put them into bottles, wnich set in a bain marie. Mushrooms, to keep in Salt and JVater.—Thoroughly clean them ; boil them tender in water and a little salt; dry them with a cloth ; make a strong brine; when cold, put in the mush- rooms ; at the end of a fortnight change the brine ; put them into small bottles, and pour oil on the top. When you want to use them forragoflt, &c., lay them first in warm water. Mushroom Ketchup. — Choose the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, sprinkle salt over them, and stir them now and then for three successive days. Then let them stand for twelve days, until there is a thick scum over them; strain, and boil the liquor witli Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a few cloves, and some mustard-seed. When cold, put it into bottles, and tie a bladder over the cork ; at the end of three months it should be boiled again, with fresh spices, and it may then be kept for twelve months. Mushrooms in a Marinade.^ Fried.— Choose some good button mushrooms, peel them, and put them for one day into a pickle of half vinegar and half water, salt, one clove of garlic, peppercorns, parsley, carrots, and onions ; have some good fresh lard on the fire, take the mushrooms out of the pickle, chop them in flour, and fry them in the hot lard, laying them on paper as you do them ; serve them with a sharp sauce, made with three table-spoonsful of butter sauce, mixed with a little glaze, and the juice of nearly half a lemon. Mushrooms Pickled. — Button mush- rooms should be rubbed with a bit of flan- nel and salt, and from the larger ones take out the red insides; when they are black they will not do, being too old. Sprinkle a little salt over them, and put them into astewpnn, with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, ( 339 ) MUS and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again, then put as much vinegar into the pan as will be suflicient to cover them ; give it one warm, and turn the whole into a glass or stone jar. They will keep for two years. Mushrooms Pickled.*—Boil them in milk, then wipe them dry with a flannel. Boil some vinegar with mace, nutmeg, and ginger, and let it stand till cold, then nut it to the mushrooms, and bottle it; wlien bottled, pour in a little sweet oil before tying on the bladders. Mushrooms, to Pickle fVhite.—CiitofT the stalks of some small button mush- rooms, rub the skins off with flannel dip- ped in salt, and then throw them into milk and water. Drain them out, and put them into a stewpan, strewing over them a handful of salt; cover them close, and put them over a gentle stove for five minutes, to draw out all the water. Then put them on a coarse cloth to drain till they are cold. Mushroom Powder.* — Take half a peck of large mushrooms, wash them clean from grit, cut off the stalks, put them into a saucepan without any water, a quarter of an ounce of mace, two spoonsful of pepper powdered, two onions stuck with cloves, a handful of salt, some allspice and nutmeg if you like, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Let it stew till the liquor is dried up, then lay them on sieves to dry, till they will beat to a powder. Bottle, and cork it down close for use; a tea-spoonful added to gravy or soup, a minute or two before it is taken off the fire, gives a fine fla- vour. Mushroom Powder.—After the mush- rooms or champignons are dried whole, they may be set before the fire till crisp ; then grind and sift them through a line, sieve, and preserve in small bottles closely corked. Mushrooms, Quintessence of. — This delicate relish is obtained, by sprinkling some button or flap mushrooms over with a little salt, and three hours after, masli them; the following day, strain off the liquor that will flow from them, and boil it in a stewpan till reduced to half. It will not keep long, but many prefer it on account of the flavour of the mushrooms not being overpowered by the spices, which it is necessary to put into ketchup to preserve them. Mushrooji Loaves.—Wash some small button mushrooms, the same as for pick- ling, and boil them a few minutes in a little water; add to them a little cream, a bit of butler rolled in flour, and some salt and pepper. Boil these up, take the crumb out 2 G 2M U S M U S ( 340 of pome Frencli rolls, and fill them with the mushrooms. Mushrooms (liagoilt o/).—Take some large mushrooms, scrape the insides of them, and broil them till they ai e brown ; then put them into some gravy, thickened with a little flour, a very little Madeira, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Give the whole a boil, and then serve. Mushrooms, RagoiU of (Brown).*— Prepare your mushrooms as for wiiite ragoflt; when minced, and the moisture pressed out, make a little brown roux., moisten it with stock; put to it a little ham, trimmings of veal, a seasoned hunch of sweet herbs, carrot and onions ; when done, strain it through a sieve, and then finish it by adding a little butter. Mushrooms, Ragodt of (White).*— Pick and cut off the stalks of the mush- rooms near to the head, wash them in several waters, and then put them into a saucepan, with some water and lemon- juice. Drain, mince them very small, and press them closely in a cloth. As soon as all their moisture is extracted, replace them in a saucepan, with butter and lemon-juice, and when the former begins^ to oil, add equal quantities of veMite and consomme ; reduce, and sea- son it with pepper. Thicken it with yolks of egg, cream, and butter ; skim off the fat and serve. Mushroom Salad.— Cut your mush- rooms into dice, which put into a sauce- pan, with oil, and a slice or two of peeled It'mon ; simmer a short time, then drain, and let them cool; when qu'te cold, put them into a salad dish, with chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; pre- pare them like other salads, with oil and vinegar. Mushroom Cut some mush- rooms into pieces, press them in a cloth, and then mince them ; do them up in a little melted butter, then add some good stock, parsley, scallions, and two cloves of garlic ; skim, and cook them over a moderate fire for half an hour; strain, take off the fat, and serve it very hot. Mushroo.m Sazice d VEspagnole.—Put two ladiesful of brown consomme (com- monly called into astewpan, with two ladiesful of sauce tournee, and some mushrooms ; reduce it oyer the tire to the thickness of the sauce you put in, at first, then stir in a piece of butter, the juice of halfa lemon, and a very small quantity of cayenne pepper. Mushrooms,/Sfewed.*—Peel some large mushrooms, take out the inside, broil them, and when the outside is brown, put them in a stewpan with water enough to cover them, a spoonful of wjiitc wine, the same of browning, and a little vine- gar; thicken it with flour and butter; boil it up ; and serve with sippets round the dish. Mushrooms (White) d laBardelaise.* —Choose the thickest and firmest mush- rooms. wash and drain them, cut the un- der side in lozenges, put them in a dish with oil, pepper, ana salt, let them lay two hours in this, then broil them ; make a sauce as follows:—Put some oil, shred parsley, and scallions, and a small piece of garlic, into a saucepan; shake them over the fire till quite hot; then pour it over the mushrooms with the juice of two lemons. Mushrooms (White) aux Crotete.*— Trim and blanch your mushrooms, pHt them into a saucepan with a bit of butter, a bunch of parsley and scallions; set the pan on a stove and fry the mushrooms lightly ; then add a spoonful of flour and some good stock; let these boil pretty quick at first, and afterwards set them aside to simmer ; season them with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; take the upper crust of a very light brick, rasp and take out all the crumb, butter the crust inside and out, place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, dry and broil of a nice colour ; take the parsley and scallions fi'om the mushrooms, thicken the sauce with the yolks of eggs beaten up with cream, pour a little of this on the crust, lay it on a dish, the hollow part downwards; pour the ragofit over, and serve it. Mushrooms (fVhite) for Galantine.* —Trim and put the mushrooms into cold water, in which is a little lemon-juice ; then drain and set them on the fire with a good bit of butter and lemon-juice, for about five minutes; when done, put them in a China basin for use. Mushrooms (White) with Herbs.*— Prepare and soak your mushrooms as for la Bordelaisc, mince the stalks and trim- mings, press out all the water they may contain, put them into a saucepan with oil, salt, pepper, parsley, and scallions, and a piece of garlic; give these a few turns, and having laid the mu-hrooms on a dish, put a little of the sauce into each, sprinkle them with raspings; pour a little oil over, and bake them; when done, dish and serve them with their own sauce and lemon-juice. USHROOMS(White) d la Provencale.* —Take four small baskets of yerj firm mushrooms, pick. wash, and drain them ; cut each in half, .and lay them in oil. sea- soned with pepper, sdt, .and garlic; just before dinner time, put them into a fry- ing-pan with some olive oil. fry them over a large fire ; when of a good colour, add two spoonslul of chopped parsley,M U T ( 341 ) MOT I. an d about a dozen pieces of bread, all : the same size and shape ; squeeze a little i; lemon-juice over, and serve. Mushrooms {fVhile), Puree_ of.*— I Choose your mushrooms very white, cut •I off the e.srthy end of the stalk and wash I them. Put a little water into a stewpan II with the juice of a lemon, fry the mush- I rooms lightly in this ; then drain and i| mince them very small; put them into a cloth, press tliem very tight. Take a ’ piece of butter, and put it in a saucepan with asqueeze of lemon and the chopped ^ mushrooms; set them on the fire, and f when the butter is oiled, add six ladlesful ; of veloutc, and as much consomme : re- l! duce this till yowvpuree is pretty thick; !i season with whole pepper. ; Mushroom (fVhite) Sauce. — Have ii ready some cream sauce, rather thinner n than usual; to this put a few small white c mushrooms ; reduce it to the proper con- P sistence; it is then ready for use. MUSK, to prepare for Liqueurs.*— ' Take two grains of musk and a quarter of a pound of sugar, pound them in a B mortar and mix them well; keep it in i a closely stopped bottle. The quantity P required of this is one pinch to four or ii five quarts of liqueur. j Ambergris is prepared in a similar i[ manner, but being less powerful than I the musk, four grains is the proportion I to a quarter of a pound of sugar. ! MUSTARD, fo —Take some of the best Durham flour of mustard and mix it, by degrees, to a proper thickness with boiling water, rubbing it extremely smooth; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closely covered, and only put as much into the mustard-pot as will be used in a few days; the mustard-pot should be daily wiped round the edges. Mustard, to Make.*—Take a few spoonsful of the flour of mustard, and carefully mix it with a little warm water, until it is of the consistence of honey ; be particular that it is mixed perfectly smooth. Mustard, to Make, for immediate XJse.* —Take some mustard, and, by degrees, mix it quite smooth with new milk, ad- ding a little cream. Mixed in this man- ner it will keep ; it is very soft, and not I in the least bitter. Mustard Sauce.*—Put two glasses of 1 stock, shalots shred small, salt and pep- ! per, into a saucepan ; let them boil lor half an hour, then add a spoonful of I mustard ; stir it in well, and use jt when I required. MUTTON (Observations o?r).—.The I pipe that runs along the bone of the in- I side of a chine of mutton ought tube I taken away ( and if it is to be kept any length of time, the part close round the tail should be rubbed with sal t, previously cutting Out the kernel. It is beat for the butcher to take out the kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg, as that is the part tnost likely to become tainted. The chine and rib- bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, in order to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; therefore, if it is to be kept, it is best, should the weather be hot, to rub it with a little salt. When intended for roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind quarter particularly ; but not so long as to become tainted. Mutton for boiling ought not to hang long, as it will prevent its looking of a good colour. The greatest care .should be taken to preserve, by paper, the fat of what is roasted. Mutton, a Basque of.—Put the caul of a leg of veal into a copper dish the size of a small punch-bowl. Chop the lean part of a leg of mutton extremely small; take half its weight of beef marrow, the crumb of a penny-loaf, the rind of half a lemon, grated, half a pint of red wine, two an- chovies, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix all together with the mutton, and fasten it in the caul in the middle of tiie dish ; Bake it in a quick oven, and when done, turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out. Pour over it a brown gravy garnish with pickles, and serve with sweet sauce. Mutton, Boiled, Turkish Fashion.— Cut the meat in slices, wash it in vine- gar, put it in a saucepan with whole pep- per, rice, and two or three onions; stew these very slowly, and skim very often ; when it is tender, take out the onions, and put sippets in the dish under the meat. Mutton, Boulettes of, fried.*—Mince some cold roasted mutton very small ; take a fourth of its weight in sausage- meat, some crumb of bread soaked in milk, boiled potatoes, sweet herbs, shred small, salt and pepper; mix these toge- ther with the yolks of two or three eggs. Roll this farce into as many balls as you think proper, cover them with bread- crumbs, and fry them. Serve with sauce piquunte. Mutton, Breast of. Broiled.*—BoW the mutton, and afterwards broil it, hav- ing first strewed it over with shred par- sley and young onions, some salt, pep- per. and grated bread-crumb^!. Mutton (Breast of) en Carbonade.*— Take out the brisket bones, and cut a 2G3342 ) M U T MUT breast of mutton into oviil-shaped pieces, biHiae them (adding some slices of ham to the usual braising materials) for three hours. When wanted for the table, drain and glaze them. Serve with spinach, endive, sorrel, or any thing else. Mutton {Breast of) Collared.—Take. a breast of mutton, take off the akin, bone it, and roll it up in a collar like a breast of veal. Put a quart of milk and a quarter of a pound of butter in the dripping-pan, and baste the meat with it well whilst it is roasting. Put some good gravy into the dish and into a boat, with some currant-jelly in another boat, and serve. Mutton {Breast of) a la Ste. Mene- hould.*—Braise a breast of mutton in the usual way ; when done, take it out, rub salt and pepper over it, dip it in melted butter, bread it thoroughly, and broil it over a slow fire, pass a salaman- der over it, and serve with a clear gravy. Mutton {Breast of) aux Petites Ra- cines.*—Prepare and biaise a breast of mutton as directed for Carbonade, and when done, drain the pieces, dish them, en co/uro7ines, in the centre of which pour the ragofU of carrots. (See Petites Ra- cines.) Mutton {Breast of) Roasted with fVine.—Skin and bone a breast of mut- ton, then roll it up in a collar like a breast of veal. Roast it, and baste it with half a pint of red wine ; when you have used up all the wine, finish basting with butter. Have a little good gravy in rea- diness, and when the mutton is done, set it upright in a dish, pour in the gravy, prepare sweet sauce the same as for venison, and send it up to table without any garnish. Mutton Brof4.—Take two pounds of scrag of mutton, take out the blood, put it into a stewpan, and cover it with cold water ; and wnen tlie water is lukewarm, pour it off, skim it well; then put it in again with four or five pints of water, a lea-spoonful of salt, a table-spoonful of grits, and an onion ; set it on a slow fire, and when you have taken all the scum off, put in a few turnips, let it simmer very shnvly lov two hours, and strain it tlirough a clean sieve. Mutton Bi'oth.—Cut a neck of mut- ton into pieces, preserving a handsome piece to he served up in the tureen ; put all into a stewpan with tbiee quarts of cold beef stock, or water, with a little oatmeal mixed in it; some turnips, onions, leeks, celery cut in pieces, and a small bunch of thyme and parrley. When it boils, skim it clean, and when nearly done, take out the piece you in- tend to serve in the tureen, and let the other pieces stew till tender; then have ready turnips cut into dice, some leeks, celery, half a cabbage, some parsley, all cut small, and some marigolds; wash them, strain the liquor ofl' the meat, skim it free from the fat, add it to the ingredients with the piece of mutton in- tended for the tureen, adding a little pearl barley. Season with salt, simmer all together till done, and serve with toasted bread on a plate. Mutton, Capilotade of.*—Cut the re- mains of a quarter of mutton into pieces, put them into a pan with salt, pepper, nutmeg, white wine, stork, and a dessert spoonful of olive oil; when about half done, add to it two ounces of raspings, cover the saucepan close, and let it boil slowly for three or four, hours; then pour it on a dish with its liquor and the juice of a Seville orange. Mutton C'4qps in disguise.—Take as many chops as you choose, and rub them with pepper, salt, and a little parsley; roll each chop in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered on the inside, and rolled on each end close; have some hog’s- lard or beef dripping boiling in a frying-- pan; put in the steaks, fry them of a nice brown, lay them in your dish, and gar- nish with fried p.Trsley, throw some all over them, and have a little good gravy in a sauce-boat; but tske great care that you do not break tlie paper, nor have any fat in the dish, but let them be well drained. Mutto.v, to Collar a Breast of.*—Take off the skin, bone, and gristle, from a breast of mutton ; then grate white bread, cloves, mace (a small quantity), pepper, and salt, the yolks of three eggs bruised small, and a little lemon-peel, shred fine ; make the meat flat, strew the sea- soning over it with four oi^five anchovies, washed and boned ; roll the meat up as a collar, bind it witli a coarse tape, and broil or roast it, cut it in three or four pieces, and serve it up with a good thick gravy; fried oysters, or force-meatballs are an improvement. It is very good cold, cut in slices like collared beef. Mutton Coitops.—Take all the lean from a leg of mutton that lias hung some time ; cut it into slices, about the size of half an egg ; be.it them quite fl.it, and fry them lightly in lard, with some chopped parsley, shalots. mushrooms, pepper, and salt; then put them into a stewpan, adding to the aliove se.isoning, a few slices of veal, and ham. cover them with bacon, and let them simmer for about half an liour; put in half a glass of white wine, and some stock ; when quite done, take out the mutton, dram and dish it, add a little cullis to the343 ) MUT MUT sauce, reduce it; skim, and strain it over the collops. Mutton Collops.—Take a leg of mut- ton, which has hung for some time, and cut it into thin collops ; take out all the sinews, season the collops with salt, pep- per, beaten mace, some shred parsley, thvme, and two shalots; put a large piece of butter into a stewpan, and when It is quite hot, put in all the collops, and keep stirring them with a wooden spoon, till they are three parts done; put in half a pint of good mutton gravj% some lemon-juice, thickened with butter and flour; let them simmer four or five mi- nutes, not longer, or they will be hard ; lay them in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. Mutton Collops d la Perigord.—Cut your mutton in thinner slices than usual, put them into a marinade of oil,_with sweet herbs; having laid in this for some time, braise them with the same materials as mutton collops, adding mari- nade, and chopped truffles. Serve them with a ragofit of the latter. Mutton d la Coquette.—Cut a neck of mutton into pieces, about the size of a finger, lard them quite through with ham and bacon ; simmer them in some stock, with sweet herbs ; when d.~'ne, take the meat out, reduce and str.ain the sauce over them. Then take some good fowl farce, cover each piece of mutton with this, wrap the whole in a slice of bacon ; wasn them over with egg, cover with bread crumbs, and bake them. Mutton Cutlets (.broiled) Breaded.*— Trim and season your cutlets with pep- per and salt, put them into some melted butter, and when they have imbibed a sufficient quantity of it, take them'out, and cover them completely with bread crumbs ; give the cutlets a good shape, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care not to do the cutlets too much, to burn the bread. Mutton Cutlets in Caul.*—La.rd and braise a dozen mutton cutlets, as for la smbise', place a weight on them whilst they are cooling; when cold, trim and wrap them in onions prepared as follows ; cut twelve onions into dice, blancli and cool them; then do them up in a little butter, with pepper, salt, garlic, bay- leaf, and nutmeg; add to these two ladiesful of veloute, stir in the yolks of four eggs, and reduce the onions to a paste; as soon as it is cold, use it as above-mentioned ; besides this, put on each cutlet a pig’s caul, lay them in a deep dish, and hake them to a nice colour. Serve them very hot with a demi glaze. Mutton Cutlets tcitk Cucumbers.*— Choose your cutlets rather thicker than usual, beat and lard them with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; put them into a pan with a little melted but- ter, brown, and then trim them. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon and veal, two carrots, cut in pieces, three onions, two cloves, a hayleaf, a little thyme ; lay your cutlets on this, cover them with bacon, pour in a ladleful of stock, and simmer the cutlets in this. In about two hours take them out, drain and glaze them, dish them en couronnes, with cu- cumbers and cream in the centre. utton Cutlets and Lettuces.*—Hav- ing prepared and dressed the cutlets in the same manner as with cucumbers; when done, glaze and dish them en cou- ronne, alternately, with lettuces, glazed. Serve with a reduced espagnole. Mutton Cutlets, d la Soubise.*—Pre- pare and dress your cutlets, as directed, with cucumbers; dish them en couronnes, with s.puree of white onions in the centre. Mutton, Curry of.*—Take a fine loin of mutton, take oft' all thd fat, cut the meat into dice, cut some onions also into dice, and fry them ; when nearly done, add the meat and curry powder (in the proportion of a table-spoonful to each pound of meat); fry them all lightly ; when almost brown, pour in two cupsfull of water, put the whole into a stewpan, cover, and let it simmer for an hour, or more, according to the quantity. Have some rice, boiled very dry, in a separate dish. Some persons add a little pickle. Mutton ((Fillet of) Braised.—Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and paste the same as for venison ; let it roast for a couple of hours. Be careful that it is not in the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled, and drained on a sieve; and, during the time the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat up in gravy, and lay them in the dish, and serve the meat upon them. Mutton (Fillets of\ d la Gelce.—T.ake the fillets from two loins of mutton, lard them with bacon, rolled in sweet herbs; put them into a stewpan, lined witli slices of bacon; add the trimmings of the meat, two carrots, cut in pieces, two onions, each with a clove in it, a good bunch of parsley, seasoned, a little salt and whole pepper, a glass of madeira, and two ladlesful of consomme, cover the whole with bacon, and a piece, of buttered paper the size of the pan. Set it on the fire; as soon ns it boils, put it aside, with fire under and over, to simmer slowly for two hours ; then take it from the fire, and let the fillets cool in their sauce. When nearly cold, drain and press them lightly between two dishes, and when( 344 MUT MUT quite cold, cut each fillet in half, glaze them all over, diah them, and garnish over and round with jelly, disposed ac- cording to your fancy. Mutton cutlets d la gelee, are done in the same manner, except that they are larded both with bacon and ham. Mutton Hams.—Cut a hind-quarter of mutton like a ham, and take an ounce of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, and the same quantity of common ealt, mix them together, and rub them well into the mutton ; then lay it in a hollow tray, with the skin downwards, and baste it every day with the pickle for a fort- night. Roll it in saw-dust, and hang it in_ wood-smoke for a fortnight. Then boil it, hang it in a dry place, and cut rashers oil'as you want them; they eat much better broiled than any other way. Mutton ( Haricot of).—Cut some mut- ton chops rather thicker than for broil- ing ; trim them nicely, then fry the chops in a little butter, of a nice brown colour; drain oft' the butter, and make a roMX,by putting together, in astewpan, a small piece of fresh butter, and a spoon- ful of fine flour, placing them over a mo- derate fire, ana stirring them with a wooden spoon till the flour becomes of a good brown colour, moisten with veal gravy of a good colour, and well season- ed. VVhen your sauce boils, put in the chops and the trimmings of your turnips, and let them stew gently on the corner of the stove. Skim frequently; when the chops are nearly done, drain them into a cleanstewpan ; have ready some turnips, cut in neat shapes, but rather large pieces, add them to the chops; drain the sauce through a sieve, over the turnips and chops, then stew them in this sauce with a little sugar, and continue to skim fre- quently. When the turnips are done, keep them hot by the lam marie till you serve. Mutton Harrico.*—Take a scrag of mutton, make some good gravy with parsley, thyme, and winter-savory, sliced carrots, onions, and shalota and celery, some turnips, well boiled and mashed, and a crust of white bread, stew all to- gether ; then put in some steaks of a neck or loin_ (broiled first), and stew them in some time ; season to your taste; strain it off, arid slice in some carrots, boiled separately for that purpose. Mutton Hashed d la Bourgeoise.— Take what meat remains from a roast leg of mutton, which has been served the day before; cut oft' the skin, take away the coarse fibres, and cut the meat into small and thin pieces, put them into a saucepan; then reduce a few spoonsful of cullis, and put it to the hash, with two ounces of butter: warm up the whole, taking care that it does not boll, and serve with soft poached eggs round. Mutton Hashed with Cucumbers.— Pare some cucumbers, and take out the seeds, then cut them into very thin slices ; and let them steep for two hours in vinegar and salt; drain them well; put them into a stewpan, and keep turn- ing them over the fire, with a small piece of butter ahd a slice of ham, till they be- gin to take colour, adding a little flour, and moistening with equal quantities of stock and gravy. If you do not happen to iiave any gravy, let the cucumbers be more coloured before they are taken from the fire; they should then be stewed gently, occasionally skimming off the fat; when they are done, add a little cul- lis to thicken them. Having thus pre- pared your ragofit of cucumbers, take any joint ofcojd roast mutton (the leg is the best), cut it into thin slices, and put it into the ragofit to heat, but taking care ,not to let it boil. Mutton {Hashed)with Fine Herbs.*— Cutyour meat as directed forha.shed mut- ton and poached eggs, dress it also.in the same manner, leave it in the saucepan ; put two ounces of butter into another saucepan, with a dessert spoonful of sha- lots, shred small; set them on the fire, but do not colour them ; then take four spoonsful of mushrooms, all shred small, give them a few turns, with the shalots, after which do a dessertspoonful of shred parsley: stir them all together, reduce, and pour them on the hash; give the whole a simmer, and then serve with sippets round. Mutton (Hashed) and Poached Eggs.*—Cut the meat from a cold roast- ed leg of mutton, take out all the sinews, and skin, mince it \ery- small, and put it in a saucepan ; reduce four spoonsful of esjiagnole to one; pour it over the meat; mix it in well, set it on the fire, but do not let it boil j when done, pour it into a diah with fried bread, cut like corks, round, and poached eggs on it. Mutton (Haunch of).—\t should be kept as long as you can possibly keep it sweet by the dillereiit modes; and if ne- cessary, wash it with warm milk and water, or vinegar, and when going to be dressed.be careful to wash it well, to pre- vent the outside from having a bad fla- vour from keeping; bclore you put the haunch to the fire, fold it in a paste of coarse flour, or strong paper; then set it a good distance from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; do not take it off, till about thirty-five or forty minutes before serving the mutton, and then baste continually; bring the haunchM UT ( 345 ) M UT nearer before taking oft’ the paste, and -j froth it up in the same manner as veni- !son. For gravy, take a pound and a lialf of loin of mutton, and simmer it in a pint of water till reduced to half, use no seasoning but salt: brown it with a little I! burnt sugar, and serve it up in the dish ,• II but there should be a good deal of gravy I in the meat, for though long at the fire, the covering and distance will prevent its roasting out. Serve with curiant-jelly sauce. ; Mutton of.)—If your leg of mut- [I ton is roasted, serve with onion or cur- [■' rant-jelly sauce ; if it is boiled, serve with (I caper-sauce and vegetables. In roasting ij or boiling, a quarter of an hour is usually II allowed for each pound of meat. !l Mutton {Leg of), a VAnglaise.* — i] Lard the fleshy part of a leg of mutton with fat bacon, tie it with packthread, i and put it into a pot just large enough to hold it, with some stock, a bunch of I parsley, and green onions, a clove of gar- lic, three cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, basil, 1 some salt and pepper; when it is done, I let it drain, wipe oft'the fat with a cloth, r and serve with a sauce made in the fol- I lowing manner: put a tumblerful of |i stock, and nearly the same quantity of I cullis into a stewpan, with some capers I and anchovies, a little parsley, a shalot, » and the yolk of an egg boiled hard ; let li the sauce boil a few minutes, and serve it with the mutton. , Mutton {Leg (f) d la Bourgeoise.*— Take a nice round leg of mutton, bone it, f and lard the inside of it with lardons 5 rolled in salt, pepper, and spices; tie it up into its original form, and put it into a braising-pan, with a dozen carrots, a I dozen onions, as many potatoes, two bay- ! leaves, two cloves, parsley, scallions, and I a ladleful of stock or water ; add to these a pound of bacon cut into six pieces, a little salt; simmer it for three hours and a half, stirring it occasionally; at the end of that time take out the mutton, untie, and dish it with the vegetables round it. I Mutton {Leg of), with Cauliflmvers I and Parmesan Cheese.'^—Bo\{ a leg of I mutton d I’Anglaise, then blanch some I cauliflowers, and bml them in another I water, with a bit of butter and a little I salt; then take the dish you intend to I serve in, and put into it a little sauce [ made with cullis, a slice of butter, salt, coarse pepper, tind thickened over the fire; put into the dish with this sauce, some grated Parmesan cheese ; put the mutton in the dish,and pour the remain- I de.r of the sauce over it, add more cheese, ! and set the dish upon a stove over a slow I lire, under a cover that will admit lire at the top, until it be of a fine high brown, and the sauce thick ; before you serve it to table, drain ofl’all the fat. Mutton {Leg of) with Endive.*—Cut the meat of a cold roasted leg of mutton into small thin pieces, and put them into a saucepan : blanch the hearts of some endive, then press out all the water, cut them in pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter; add to itafterwards three ladiesful of espagnole, the same of consomme, a little salt, and whole pep- per; reduce, and pour it on the mutton, stir them together over the fire, but do not let it boil; dish it en bnisson, garnieh with fried bread, and pour a very little espagnole over it. Mutton {Leg of) d VEspagnole.— Bone a leg of mutton to the knuckle, lard it quite through with large pieces of bacon, seasoned with salt and spices, then put it into a braising-pan, with about a dozen onions, and a pint of white wine, cover it with paper, and put it into the oven ; when half done, turn it, add half a dozen short sausages, cover it again, and finish the baking; garnish the meat, when served, with onion, skim and strain the liquor, squeeze over it the juice of two oranges, and pour it on the mutton. Mutton {Leg of)d la Gasconne.*— Bone a leg of mutton (excepting the knuckle); lard it with ten or a dozen cloves of garlic, and [as many anchovies cut in pieces; spit and roast it; when done, serve with a ragofit of garlic as follows : put about a pound of garlic into a saucepan with some water ; let it boil up frequently til! nearly done; then drain, and put it into another saucepan, with five spoonsful of reduced espagnole, a piece of butter, and a little gravy ; pour this ragofit round the mutton. Mutton {Leg of) au Haut-godt.—Let it hang a fortnight in some airy place, stuft'it with garlic, and rub it over with pepper and salt, and then roast it. Sauce: good gravy, with a spoonful of wine boiled in it. Mutton {Leg of) Marinaded—LaxA the upper part of a leg of muttdn, and let it soaK for about twelve hours in a warm pickle of water, vinegar, garlic, cloves, onions, thyme, bay-leaves, parsley, salt and pepper; after it has been tliis time in soak, roast it,_ basting it with the pickle; serve with a high-flavoured sauce, or, if you like it better, pass the marinade through a sieve, reduce it over the fire to the consistence of a sauce, add a little_ butter to thicken it, and serve. If you intend to use your marinade for a sauce, you must put in a very small quantity of salt. Mutton {Leg tf) Marinaded, Fetd- 1( 346 M UT MUT .•son Fashion.*—Take a leg of mutton that has hung some days, lard the upper side with bacon, and lay it in the following marinade: vinegar and water, a lemon cut in slices, garlic, nutmeg, cloves, slices of onions, coriander bruised, thyme, bay- leaf, parsley, scallions, salt and pepper; leave the mutton in tliis for twenty-four hours (or five or six days, if you like) ; then take it out, and roast it, basting it with the mai-inade strained ; serve with its own gravy. Mutton {Leg of) Stuffed.*—Make a atufliug with a little beef-suet chopped, some parsley, thyme, marjoram, a little grated lemon, nutmeg grated, pepper, salt, and a few bread crumbs, mix all to- gether with the yolk of an egg, put this under the skin in the thickest part of a leg of mutton under the flap ; then roast it, and serve it to table with some good gravy in the dish. Mutton {Leg of ) Stuffed with Oys- ters.—Make a forcemeat of beef-suet, chopped small, the yolks of hard boilea eggs, with three anchovies, a little onion, thyme, savory, and some oysters, a dozen or fourteen, all cut fine, some salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and crumbs of bread, mixed up with raw eggs; put this forcemeat under the skin in the thickest part of the leg of mutton, under the flap, and at the knuckle. For sauce, some oyster-liquor, a little red wine, an anchovy, and some more oysters stewed, and served under the mutton. Mutton (Loin of).— Roast it; some people think it eats much better if cut length-ways, like a saddle. It may also he used for steaks, pies, or broth, only taking care to cut oft' as much fat as pos- sible. Mutton (Loin qf) en Fricandeau.*— Trim, and lard a loin of mutton ; take the trimmings of this, some beef and veal, lay them hi a stewp.an, the mutton on them, with carrots, onions, and a bouquet garni ; add consommi, ana cover it with a but- tered paper ; set it first on a brisk, and afterwards on a slow fire ; let it stand till quite done ; then take it out, and drain it, take oft’ the skin, glaze, and serve it with a ragoflt of endive, or a pus-6e of sorrel. Mutton {Loin of) Larded with Pars- ley.*— Take three loins of mutton, cut your fillets from them, leaving out the chine ; lard tliem with very green pars- ley, and soak them in oil, towliich add salt and pepper. Pass a skewer through, fasten them to the spit, and roast them, basting with oil. Half an hour is sutti- cient to do them. Serve with the pars- ley upwards, and a clear aspic. Mutton {Neck q/").—This joint is par- ticularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it. The bone ought to be cut short. The best end of the neck may be boil- ed, and served with turnips; or if you think proper, it may be roasted, or dressed in steaks, or made into pies, or u.ied for harrico. You may stew the scrags in broth ; or in a little water, with small onioos, some peppercorns, and a small quantity of rice, all served together. When you wish that a neck which is to be boiled should look particularly well, saw down the chine bone, strip the riba half way down, and chop off the ends of the bones, about four inches. To make the fat look particularly white, the skin should not be taken off till it is boiled. The fat belonging to the neck or loin of mutton, if chopped ve^ fine, makes a most excellent suei-pudding, or crust for a meat pie. Mutton {Neck of) Larded with Ham and Anchovies.—Take the fillet of a neck of mutton, and lard it quite through with ham and anchovies, first rolled in chop- ped parsley, shalots, sweet herbs, pepper and salt. Then let it braise or stew in a little stock, with a glass of white wine. When done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little cnllis, to pve it the proper consistence. Squeeze in the juice of Imlf a lemon, and pour this sauce over the meat, and serve. Mutton (Neck of) d la Ste. Mene- hould.*—Take two necks of mutton, cut ort’the scrags; lie them up, and braise them in bacon, with three carrots, four onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, and some mutton or veal trim- mings ; moisten them either with stock or water, add salt, and set them on tbe fire to simmer for four hours ; then take them out, season with salt and pepper. Dip them in melted butter, cover them completely with bre-Td crumbs, and about an hour before dinner, broil three sides of them, and colour tlie fourth with the salamander. Serve them with a clcam gi-avy. Mutton {Neck of) with Parsley.*— Take either a neck, loin, or saddle ot mutton, trim it, and lift up the skin underneath, larding the whole with sprigs of fresh parsley; put it on the spit to roast, and when the pareley is tlioroughly well dried, baste it very frequently with hoga’-lard, until the meat is done ; tlien toss up a little, gravy, with some shalots cut small, salt and pepper, and serve it with the meat. Mutton {Neck tf) with Roots. * —{ 347 ) MUT MUT Having prepared your mutton by cutting off the scrag end, and tying it up, put some slices of bacon, any meat trim- mings, four carrots, five onions, (one of them stuck with three cloves), two bay- leaves, a little thyme, a bunch of parsley and scallions, into a stewpan ; put in the mutton, cover it with bacon, moisten them with stock or water, add salt to your taste, and set the stewpan on a brisk fire; as soon as it boils, lessen the fire, and let the meat stew four hours. When quite done, drain the mutton, dish, and pour the carrots, dressed en petites racmes, over it. Mutton (Neck or Scrag o/).*-^Stew a neck or scrag of mutton in a braising- pan, with some stock, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt; you may serve it with a ragofltof turnips, cucumbers, or celei-y, or with any sauce you think proper, or you may broil it like the breast of mut- ton. Mutton Pasty, to eat as nice as Veni- son.—Take a fat loin of mutton, and let it hang for several days, then bone it. Beat it well with a rolling pin; then rub ten pounds of meat with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over it one gla.ss of port, and one glass of vinegar. Let it lie for five days and five nights ; after which, wash and wipe the meat Very dry, and season it highly with Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and [salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edge of the dish, and cover with a thick crust, otherwise it will be over-done before the meat is soaked; it must be baked in a slow oven. Put the bones in a pan in the oven, with just sufficient water to cover them, and one glass of port, a small quantity of pepper and salt; by this means you will have a little rich gravy to add to the pasty when drawn. Sugar gi ves a greater shortness to meat, and a better flavour than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens the meat. Sugar is quite as great a preservative. Mutto.v Pfe.—Take oifthe meat from part of a lo'n of mutton, cut it into chops, and season with pepper and salt. Put a layer of chops into a deep dish, and upon them some slices of peeled potatoes, and some thin slices cf onion; put the re- maining chops over, cover with puff- paste, bake it, and add some cullis. The chops may be passed with sweet herbs, &c., and when cold, put into small or large raised crusts, with potatoes, and cullis added when baked. Mutton (raised) Pie McU.—Take the best part ol a leg of mutton, and mince with any sort of poultry, meat, or game, you may find convenient; also mince half a pound of beef suet, some ham, fat bacon, truffles, pistachio nuts, four or fire yolks of hard eggs ; mix with these all sorts of spices, sweet herbs, and two glasses of brandy; make a good raised crust, into whicli put the above; cover, and bake the pie in a moderate oven five or six hours. Serve it cold. ^\vtroii,Polpeltes of.*—Take the lean of any joint of cold roasted mutton, pare oifthe skin, and mince the meat with a little grated bacon and calf’s udder; sea- son with salt, pepper, nutmeg, a few mushrooms and parsley, shred smafi; unite them together with the yolks of three eggs, and make twelve or fifteen balls of it, dip them in beaten egg, and bread them twice. Flatten these balls a little, and fry them in clarified butter; when done, drain and place them on the dish. Serve them with tomata sauce or demi glaze. Mutton Pudding.—Cut some slices from a leg of mutton that has been under done, and put them into a basin lined with a nice suet crust. Season them well with pepper, salt, and finely-shred onion or shalot. Mutton Pudding.—Put a layer of steaks at the bottom of a dish, and sea- son with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion : then pour a batter of potatoes, boiled and pressed through a cullender, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then put another layer of steaks and more batter, and bake it. Mutton Rolls, enGratin.—Cut a neck or leg of mutton into slices about the thickness of a crown piece, lay them se- parately on a dish, covered with chopped parsley, shalots, scallions, and mush- rooms ; season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pour a sufficient mian- tity of oil over to cover them. When they have laid in this an hour, have some good fowl or veal farce; put a piece about the size of a walnut between e.Tch two slices of mutton, tie them together and braise the whole; when about half done, add a glass of white wine. Take the crumb from as many small rolls as you have parcels of mutton,which untie and put into the crusts; takesome farce made of poultry, livers, grated bacon, pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs; put a layer of it on a dish for table (one that will bear the fire), place the rolls on it, and set it on the fire to make the gratin. When ready for table, pour some cullis over the rolls, and serve them with a clear sauce and leinou- juice. Mutton Rumps, d la Braise,—TakeM U T 348 ) M U T pix mutton rumps, and boil them for a riuivrier of an hour; then take them out and cut them in two, and put them into a stewpan with lialfa pint of good gravy, a glass of white wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a little cayenne pepper, and salt; cover them close, and stew till they are tender; then take out the onion, thicken the gravy with a little butter rolled in flour, put in a little roux a.n6. thejiiice of half a lemon ; boil it up till it is smooth, taking care that it is not too thick; put in the rumps, give them a toss or two, and dish them up hot. Gar- nish with horse-radish and beet-root. Mutton Rumps (Entree of),— Clean the rumps, and braise them till nearly done; then fry slips of bread the same breadth and length ; put a rump on each piece of bread, and over it grated Par- mesan cheese; and upon the whole a little mustard, butter, and cullis, mixed together; strew at the top some line bread-crumbs. Bake the rumps till tender, and serve them in a little con- sommi thickened with the yolks of two eggs and a gill of cream. Mutton Rumps and Kidneys.—Boil half a dozen rumps, then stew them in some mutton gravy, more than vvill cover them ; let them stew gently for half an hour, then take them up and let them stand to cool; put into the gravy a quarter of a pound of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace; let it boil till the rice is very thick ; take the rumps, and rub them over with the yolk of an egg well beat up, and then roll them in bread-crumbs, a little pepper, salt, some grated nutmeg, lemon-peel grated, and a very little thyme ; fry them in butter till they are of a nice brown. Whilst the rumps are stewing, lard some kidneys, and put them in a Dutch oven to roast. When the rumps are fried, drain them; pour the fat out of the frying-pan, and put in the i ice; stir it all together round the pan, and then lay the rice in a dish ; lay the rumps round upon the rice, the narrow ends to meet in the middle ; boil four eggs hard, cut them in quarters, and lay the kidneys and hard eggs upon the rice between the rumps, blurroN Ru7tips Mannaded. — Clean and cut the rumps into equal lengths, and lay them in a pan, in the mari- nade liquor for one night, then pass them in butter till nearly done; lay them on a dish to cool, wash them over with yolk of egg, and strew them over with bread crumbs. Fry them gently in boiling lard till done, and of a nice colour. Drain them dry, and serve them up with a very good seasoned cullis sauce, witlt ketchup in it. Mutton (Saddle of) Baked.*—Vet- pare and dress a saddle of mutton, in every respect as for a remove (see that article); when cold, take ofl' tlie skin, trim and season it with pepper and salt; brush it all over with melted butter, bread it, and then let it cool; put a quar- ter of a pound of butter into a basin, break ten eggs on it, add pepper and salt; beat them together well, and wash the saddle over with it completely, and cover it well with the bread; put the saddle on a baking-tin, and put it in the oven, which must not be too hot, or it will spoil the colour of the mutton. Mutton (Saddle of) Braised.*—Take the half of a saddle ot mutton, and bone it, season the inner part with salt and pepper, roll it up to the form of a long square, tie it up and braise it for two hours and a half; when ready for table, raise the skin and glaze it; put in the dish any jjtrrec or sauce you please. Mutton (Saddle o/l Breaded a I'Ar.- glaise.*—Take a saddle of mutton, and braise it as directed (see this joint Braised), and when done, season with pepper and salt, dip it in melted butter and bread it, then let it cool. Put an ounce of butter into a saucepan, as soon as it is melted, mix with it three eggs and a little salt; soak the saddle com- pletely in this, roll it well in bread- crumbs, give it a good form, and about three-quarters of an hour before dinner broil it slowly, colour the top with a sala- mander. Serve the saddle with a clear gravy. Mutton (Saddle of) as a Remove.*— Take a whole saddle of mutton, let it be fat and well covered with skin; bone the ribs to the spine, season the udder part w'ith pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; fill each side widi the meat from a leg of mutton, roll it in, taking care to make both the same size; tie it up, and binise it, adding the ribs and leg-bone, for five hours; then diain and untie it, strip all the skin from the top. and either glaze or cover it with shred parsley; serve it with a clear gravy, and garnish your dish with glazed turnips, onions, or carrots. Mutton Sausages.—Take, a pound of the rarest part of a leg of mutton which has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it very fine, and season it with popper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef suet, s.>me sweet herbs two anchovies, and a pintol oysters, all chopped very small ; a quarter of a pound of_grated bread, some of the an-! .1 i I M U T ( 345 ) M U T chovy-liciuor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. When tho- roughly mixed, put all into a little pot, and use it by rolling it into little balls, or of a sausage shape, and fry them. A little slialot, or garlic> is a great im- provement. „ . , „ Mutton Were/) Roas/ed.—Serve with onion sauce. You may, if you choose, broil the blade-bone. Mutton (Shonldei' of) Baked.*—Lt^ru a shoulder of mutton with streaked ba- con, put it into an earthen stewpan pro- portioned to the size of the joint of meat, with two or three sliced onions, a parsnip and carrot sliced, one clove of garlic, two cloves, half a bay-leaf and some basil; add about a quarter of a pint of water or stock (stock is tlie best), some salt and pepper; put the meat into the sauce, and set it in an oven. AVhen the meat is done, strain the sauce through a sieve, and skim it, squeezing the vegetables so as to make a pui^e' to thicken your sauce : serve tlie sauce with the meat. Mutton (Shoulder of), Broiled.—Take a shoulder of mutton that has hung some days, lard and braise it with the usual seasoning; when nearly done, take it out, mix some sweet herbs shred small, witli grated bread; cover your mutton with tills, lay it on the gridiron, and broil it slowly, moistening it occa- sionally, with a little of the braise liquor. When quite done, dish it, serve with a cullis and vinegar, or verjuice. Mutton {Shoulder of)d la Mhie- houlde.*—Stew a shoulder of mutton with a little stock, a hunch of parsley, and young onions, a clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, some thyme, basil, onions, carrots, pepper and salt; as soon as the mutton IS done, take it out of the stewpan, drain and put it in the dish you intend to serve in; pour over it a thick sauce, made with two spoonsful of cullis, a little flour and butter, and the yolks of three eggs thickened over the fire; then strew grated bread over the mutton, 'and baste it carefully with the fat of the stew, browning the surface with a hot aalaman- der. Serve with a clear shalot sauce, or simply with a little gravy, pepper and salt. Mutton {Shoulder of), with Onions Glacees.* — Bone a plump shoulder of mutton to the shank bone ; lard the in- terior with seasoned bacon, add salt and Eer; roll it up in the shape of a bal- , tie it, and braise it (bones also) for three hours and a half; then untie and place it in a dish ; glaze, and serve it with glazed onions, and a reduced espag- nole. Mutton {Shoulder of), d Id Parme.— Braise a shoulder of mutton ; then take some rice, boiled quite soft in broth, lay it pretty thickly on a dish, place the mut- ton on it; mix dry currants with the remainder of the rice, cover your meat with it; strew grated Parmesan cheese over the whole, and set it in a moderate oven ; when of a nice colour, take it out, and serve with a clear sauce- Mutton {Shoulder (f), with Rice.^ Take a shoulder of mutton, and half boil it; then put it in a stewpan, with two quarts of mutton gravy, a quarter of a pound of rice, a tea-spoonful of mush- room powder, with a little beaten mace, and let it stew till the rice is tender ; then take up the mutton, and keep it hot; put to the rice half a pint of cream, and a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it well round the pan, and let it boil a few minutes; lay the mutton in the dish, and serve it over the rice. Mutton (Shoulder of) en Saucisse.*— Bone a shoulder of mutton ; spread it upon a board, and put over it about the thickness of a crown piece with veal forcemeat, and over that some pickled gherkins, and ham, cut in thin slices; spread another layer of forcemeat over the ham and gherkins, merely to prevent their falling olf; then roll up the meat; wrap it very tight in a linen cloth, and stew it with a little stock, a bunch of parsley, and green onions, a clove of gar- lic, three cloves, some onions, carrots, parsnips, pepper and salt. When the meat is (lone, skim and strain the sauce. Add a spoonful of cullis, if the sauce is too thin, and serve it over the mutton. Mutton {Shoulder of) Stewed with Oysters.—Let it liang for some days, then salt it well for two days; bone it, and sprinkle itvvith pepper and a bit of mace pounded ; lay some oysters over, and roll the meat up tight, and tie it. Stew it in a little water, with an onion, and a few pepper corns, until it is quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, an(l some oysters stewed in it; thicken it with some floiirand butter, and when the tape is taken off the mutton, pour this sauce over it. Be careful to keep the stewpan closely covered. Mutton {Slices of) en Chevrenil.— Cut twelve tliin slices of mutton neatly, and Urd them with bacon ; letthem soak in vinegar mixed with apices, a bunch of parsley, and an onion cut in slices, for three days; when you wish to u.sc the meat, cook it in a thick sauce till of a good colour, and serve it with a sauce d la poivrade. Mutton (SUcesof) with Cream.*—Cnt a roasted loin of mutton into slices, which put into a stewpan ; chop up some 211M YR NE A ( 350 ) small oniona, do them with a quai ter of pound of fresh butter, and a little stock; and when nearly dissolved, add half a pint of good cream, salt and pepper ; let It boil five minutes, then put in tlie mut- ton, make them quite hot, but they must not boil. Serve them quickly, Mutton (Slices of) d la Dauphine* — Cut a loin of mutton into slices, about four inches long, lard them with streaked bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, and ginger, and cook them in a tightly closed sauce- an. Make a farce, with veal sweet- reads, fat livers, bacon, and sweet herbs, all chopped small; mix spices with the farce, and cover eacli of the slices with it (about half an inch in thickness); tie a slice of bacon round each carefully, and bake them. Mutton Slealcs, Broiled.—Cut some mutton steaks from the loin,about halfan inch thick, take off the skin, and part of the fat. As soon as the gridiron is hot, rub it with a little suet, lay on the steaks (place the gridiron over the fire aslant), turn the steaks frequently; when they are done, put them into a hot dish, rub them with a little butter ; slice a shalot very thin into a spoonful of water, and pour it on them; add a little ketchup; garnish with scraped horse-radish, and pickles, and send them up hot to table. Mutton Steaks a la Maintenon.—Half fry the steaks, and while hot, stew them with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning ; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Take care that the paper does not catch ; to prevent which rub a bit of butter on first. Mutton, Tourte o/.—Cut the meat of a neck of mutton into thin slices ; also slice some onions ; line a dish with pull paste, at the bottom of which, put a layer of godiveau; place some of the mutton on this, then a part of the onions, season with pepper and salt; on these, put ano- ther layer of godiveau, then thp mutton, onions, and so on, alternately, till all is used; then cover them with butter, and thin slices of bacon; lay a crust over, and bake it about an hour and a half, or more, according to its size. When done, remove the top, take out the bacon, skim it well, and pour in some cullis, in which a little mustard is mixed ; take care the sauce runs into all parts ; replace the top, and serve it. MYIITLE, Oil of.*—I’ut two ounces of peach leaves, and the half of a nutmeg, bruised, into six q^uar's of brandy ; distil from this in a Iriin jiiarie alembic your liqueur, in which, infuse half a pound of myrtle flowers for four days. Dissolve five pounds of sugar in three quarts of pure river water ; the moment it begins to boil, take it from the fire, and let it cool ; take the myrtle flowers from the liqueur, and put in the sugar ; mix them well, colour u with tincture of saffron, strain and bottle it. N. NASTURTIUMS Pickled.—As soon as the blossoms are off, gather the little knobs; put them into cold water with some salt) shift them once a day for three suc- cessive days ; make a cold pickle of white wine vinegar, a little white wine, shalot, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, cut in quarters, and horse-radish; and put your nasturtium buds into this pickle. NEAT’S Feet Fried.—Boil your neat’s feet, and blanch them, split them ; then fry them in clarified butter, or take out the bone, and fry them in butter with a little salt, and some good stock ; when you have fried them a little, put in some mint, thyme, and parsley, shred small, and some beaten pepper ; beat the yolks of eggs, mutton stock, vinegar, the juice of lemon, or orange, aud nutmeg, pour the sauce upon it, and serve. Neat’s Foot Pudding.—Boil a couple of neat’s feet till they are tender, mince the meat small, with an equal quantity of beef-suet; season them with salt, cinna- mon, and sugar, mince a quarter cf_a pound of orange-peel very fine, put in two handsful of grated bread, six or eight eggs, and currants at pleasure; mix all these, well together : butter a pudding- bag, put in your pudding, tie it up close, and let it boil for two hours; serve with sweet sauce. Neat’s Foot to Boast.—Boil and blanch it, and let it stand till it is cold, then lard it, fasten it on a small spit, and baste it with butter, vinegar, and nutmeg; for sauce, toast some bread, soak it in claret and vinegar, strain it, put tlie liquor into a pipkin, and put in a few cloves, ginger, and pounded cinnamon : set it on the fire, stir it with a branch of rosemary, till it is pretty well thickened : dish the foot, pour the sauce over it. and serve. Neat’s Tongue en Brcsallcs.*—Par- boil a neat’s tongue in water, then take off the skin, and cut the tongue into small thin slices, about the size of half a crown; put them into a siewpan, with parsley, young onions, and mushrooms, the whole cut small, add whole pepper, and sweet oil: put it over a very slow fire, adding a glass of white wine as soon as it begins to boil, when quite done. ad«l a little cullis; if it should not be sufllciently highly flavoured, you may add in serving, the juice of a lemon.N E A ( 351 ) N E A 2 II 2 Neat’s Tongue in Caul. — Boil a tongue sufficiently to peel, then lard it, and split it, without separating it in two ; fry some sliced onions in fresh hog’s-lard, ut to tliem two or three spoonsful of og’s-blood, about a quarter of a pound of lard chopped, a few fine spices, and salt: simmer this, stirring continually, until the blood is well mixed ; lay a caul in tlie bottom of your disli,and spread upon it part of tliis preparation ; then place in the tongue, and cover it with the remainder; roll it up in the caul, and garnisit the dish witli bread-crumbs : lastly, put it into the oven to bake, and take a good colour; clean the dish free from fat, and serve it under a sauce, made with a little cullis, jelly broth, and lemon. Neat’s Tongue d /’Scar/u^e.—Tho- roughly rub a neat’s tongue with two ounces of saltpetre in powder; put it into an earthen-pan with salt, pepper, a bay-leaf and thyme, and soak it in this brine for five or six days; when you wish to use the tongue, put it in water for three hours, then blanch it in boiling water, and takingitout, boil itin another vessel by a slow fire, for two or three hours, adding at the same time a third of its brine, with carrots, onions, cloves, salt, pepper, and a sufficient quantity of water. When done, take it off the fire, leaving it to cool in its sauce; serve. Neat’s Tongue (Fresh), in a Plain fVay,—Lard a tongue with tolerable- sized lardons, and boil it in broth, or in water, with a few onions and roots ; when it is done, peel it, and serve it with broth, sprinkling it over with a little pepper and salt; it is also used without larding, and being boiled fresh in this manner, is con- sidered very good for mince-pie meat. Neat’s Tongue Fried.—Boil it, then cut it into thin slices, season it with nut- meg, cinnamon, and sugar; dip the slices of tongue into yolks of eggs, adding a little lemon-juice; make some butter very hot in a frying and pour the eggs when they are done, serve them up with white wine, butter and sugar, well beaten together. Neat’s Tongxie en Gratin.*—Blanch a neat’a tongue, and put it into a stew- pan, and let it boil with any other meat till the skin will come off easily; then cut it into pieces, and shred small some parsley, green onions, some tarragon leaves, a few shalots, a few capers, and one anchovy; then mix a handful of grated bread crumbs, with a piece of butter half the size of an egg, and a part of the herbs that have been sliredded, and arrange them in a dish that will bear the fire ; upon these crumbs and herbs, &c., -pan, fry your tongue, in by spoonsful; and place half the slices of tongue, seasoning with salt and coarse pepper; moisten the whole with three or four spoonsful ot stock and half a glass of vvinc; let the whole stew over a stove till it forms a gratin at the bottom ot the dish ; when you serve, add a little more slock to serve as a sauce. Neat’s Tong^ie and Parmesan Cheese. —Boil a tongue in plain water, and finish it in a braise, with a little salt; take off the skin, let it cool, then cut it in slices ; put a little cullis and Parmesan into the dish in which you intend to serve, with some of the tongue slices; then put a little more cullis and Parmesan, and so on, taking care that the cheese is put on the last; bake it of a good colour, either in a Dutch or common oven, and add a little of the remaining sauce. Neat’s Tongue with Parsley.*—Let a neat’s tongue blanch a quarter of an hour in water, lard it with fat bacon, and let it boil with any piece of meat you may have cooking ; when done, and the skin taken off, cut it rather more than half way through the middle lengthwise, so that it may open in two parts without the pieces separating, and serve it will) some stock, white pepper, and parsley finely shred, adding, if you think proper, a sprinkling of vinegar. Neat’s Tongue Pickled.—Take neat’s tongues that look red out of the pickles, cut off the roots, and let them boil till the skin will come off easily; season them with salt, pepper, cloves, and nut- meg, rubbing itwell into them whilethey are hot; then put them into a pan, cover them with melted butter, bake them; when they are done, pour off all the but- ter, keep back the gravy, put them into a fresh pan, and cover them with more butter an inch thick. Neat’s Tongue Pie, with Raised or Puff Paste.—Scald a tongue, and boil it in plain water; when almost done, peel it, and cut it in slices; make what paste you please; put the slices of tongue upon it, with pepper and salt, two good slices of ham, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, three, heads of cloves, thyme, and a bay-leaf; cover it with slices of bacon and butter, and put it in the oven to bake; when done, take out the bacon and parsley, skim the fat off very clean, and add a Spanish sauce, or any other that you may think better. Neat’s Tongue Ragodt. — Lard a tongue with large lardons, and braise it ilia light braise, with broth, a bunch of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, two heads of cloves, one of garlic, onions, and roots; peel it, and split it in two; serve upon it what ragoflt you think proper, such asN 0 U NEC (352 sweetbreads, truffles, mushrooms, small onh'iis, &c. Neat’s Tongue Roasted. — Scald a tongue, parboil it in broth or water, with salt and pepper, two onions, carrots, arsnips, a faggot, two cloves, garlic, a ay-leaf, and thyme; when boiled enough to peel, take it out, lard it as a.fricandeau, and finish it in roasting. Seive under it a relishing sauce, or send it up plain. Neat’s Tongue Roasted, d la Fran- gaise.—Boil a neat’s tongue, and blanch it; set it by till it is cold, then cut a hole in the under part, and take out the meat, mince it with two or three hard eggs, an apple, beef-suet, and bacon ; season with salt, beaten ginger, and sweet herbs, shred very fine; stuff the tongue with this forcemeat; then cover the end with a veal caul, lard it with bacon, and roast it; serve with a sauce made of gravy, butter, and the juice of oranges, garnish the dish with sliced lemon-peel and bar- berries. Neat’s Tongue, with Truffles.—-'BoW. a pickled neat’s tongue two hours ; take off the skin, let it remain till cool; then cut a large incision in the under part, and fill it with light forcemeat, with some green truffles pounded in it, sew it up, trim it neatly, rub it over with yolk of egg, and cover it with paste made with beef-marrow, instead of butter ; after- wards wash the_ paste over with white of egg,_ ornament it in the same manner as a raised pie, with the remaining part of the paste, then bake it till tender, in a moderately heated oven, and serve it up with truffle sauce under, or it may be served with stewed spinach or turnips. It maybe eaten with chickens, tuiKey, or roast veal. NECTARINES (CoMserye of).— Peel ripe nectarines, slice, and boil them to a marmalade, willi a drop of water; reduce it pretty thick on the fire, mix a quarter of a pound of the marmalade to a pound of sugar, d la grande plume, (ninth de- gree,) and work it well together, when it begins to cool, and finish as all others. Nectauine lee.—Use either marma- lade or jelly, (which is made the same as peach or apricot jelly), or, if when necta- rines are in season, cut seven or eight of them when quite ripe, bruise them, boil them in a_ pint of water ; then sift them ; put a sufficient miantity of sugar to the sifted juice; and finish the same as all others. Nectarines to Keep.*—This fruit is bottled in a similar manner to apricots; the nectarines should he gathered per- fectly ripe, and the skin taken off with great care. Nectarines to Preserve.— Split the nectarines, and take out the atones, then put tliem into clarified sugar; boil them till they have thoroughly taken the sugar, take ofl' all the scum, cover them with a paper, and set them by; the fol- lowing day boil a little more sugar to a strong souffle, put it to the nectarines, and give them agood boil; take off the scum, cover them, and put them into the stove; the next day dram them, and lay them out to dry, having previously dusted them a little with sugar, then put them into the stove again. Nectarines (Liquid Sweetineat of). —The nectarines should be almost ripe ; peel and cut them in halves, simmer them in boiling water till they rise on the surface, and then drain them ; twil them in clarified sugar till there is no longer any scum rises, and leave them therein till the next day; then drain them, and boil the sugar to the seventh degree, add the fruit to it to boil a moment, and repeat the same again the following day; let the fruit and sugar incorporate to- gether for a couple of days, before you put them into pots, and keep the pan in a warm place ; the proportion of fruit and sugar in equal quantities. NIVERNOISE.*—Take, thirty small carrots, and cut them into pieces like olives, scald them for about five mi- * nutes ; drain, cool, and then put them into a stewpan, with sufficient plain or root consomme to cover them; let the whole boil until the carrots are done, and well incorporated with the liquor; then use it with the articles requiring it. NONPAREIL.’"—Poppy seeds sugar- ed in the manner directed under the articles Sugared Seeds, are called Xon- pareils; they are tinged of different colours, by the introduction of the vari- ous colouring materials into the sugar with which they are covered. NOUGAT."" — Blanch and wash a pound of sweet almonds, and having drained them well, cut each into five slips, which place in a gentle oven to dry; let them be all equally coloured of a clear yellow; in the meantime, put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar into a pieserving pan, set it on a stove, stirring with a wooden spoon until completely dissolved; then take the almonds out of the oven, and whilst hot throw them into the liquid sugar; mix them together well. Have ready a mould well oiled, of any shape you think proper, in the in- terior of which place the slips of almonds, by means of lemon-juice, when the whole is covered, remove the mould carefully, and serve the Nougat. tt • Nouoats d la Franeaise.* — Haying blanched three quarters of a pound ofOAT NUT ( 353 ) 2 II 3 filberts, separate each nut in half, lay :] them on a tin-plate, and place them in a fj slow oven : move them occasionally, that d they may all he. equally coloured; and i{ when they are tinged sufficiently, remove i| them to the mouth of the oven. Put_ six (| ounces of sugar and a glass of water into H a preserving pan, boil them to caramel, i| pour the filberts into this, stirring them II very lightly lest they should break. As il soon as the nougat as.sumes a clear red- |l dish tinge, pour it on a buttered tin, over !■ which spread it as quickly as possible, |i and strew on its surface sugar a la^role, |i and pistachiosj (cut in slips, and dried in f the oven), lay it about eight inches long, I six wide, and of an equal thickness all ii Over; take care not to press it too much with your hands. When cold enough to [j resist the knife, and yet sufficiently warm if not to break, cut it into about thirty pieces, all of the same size, arrange them 'i tastefully on a dish, and serve. I NOUILLES, Potage of.*—Take three ^ quarters of a pound of flour, the yolks of I four eggs, a pinch of salt, and a little wa- ft ter; mix these together, and knead it well until the paste is fit to roll ; lay it j out quite thin, and then cut it into slips ; !; flour them well to prevent their sticking ; together; have boiling some good stock, into which throw the nouilles; half an hour is sufficient to do them; skim the soup well, and add, just before it is put into the tureen, some whole pepper; ! serve it as usual. Nouilles may also be made with the whites instead of the yolks of eggs ; nut- meg and pepper may be added to the paste, if agreeable. NOYAU, English.* — Two gallons of gin, two pounds of bitter almonds, one pound,of sweet almonds, both beaten to a fine paste ; six pounds of lump sugar, pounded (some of it with the almonds). Let these stand ten days in the gin, tlien filter it through blotting paper, and bottle it. NUT Bomhoons. — Boil a pound of Spanish nuts; when they are well boiled, rub ofl'their skin with a napkin, if some stick too hard, pare it off with a knife ; grate your nute very fine on a sheet of paper; then take a pound of powdered sugar to a pound of nuts, put it in a pan over a slow fire ; when your sugar is all melted (you must stir it constantly with a wooddn spoon) put your nuts in, and work them well till all is well mixed, and pour it upon a tin plate ; then spread it with a rolling pin, this must be done very quickly, as it cools very fast; when It is cold, cut it into what form yon please ; you must take care the sugar is not too muchmelted, for it is very .apt to soften when the nuts are added to it. Nuts Pralined.— Take a pound of Spanish nuts, take them out of Uieir shells, and put them into a pan, with a pound of loaf sugar, and a little water; let them boil till they begin to sparkle ; then take them off the fire, and stir them well with a wooden spoon, till you per- ceive the sugar turns gravelly; then set them again over a slow fire, to dissolve the sugar; keep stirring, that the sugar may stick to the nuts, and when you see them turn reddish, and are well covered with sugar, take them oft’, pour them into a sieve, cover them with a clean cloth, and put them into a stove ; this will pre- serve their gloss. NUTMEGS to Candy.—Take a pound and a half of double refined sugar, half a quarter of a pint of damask rose-water, and a very little gum arabic ; boil tliese to a candy height; let your nutmegs be first soaked in water; then put them into an earthen pan, pour your candy to tliem,_keep them very close covered, set them in a warm place for about three weeks,and they will be of a rock candy. Nutmeg Syrup.—Take a quarter of a pound of nutmegs, pound them, and put thern into a stewpan, with a pint and a half of hot water, and let them boil for halfanhour; then sti-ain, and to a pint of liquor, put two pounds of sifted sugar, and one egg, beaten up with a little cold water; set it over a fire, and when it boils, skim it till it is perfectly free from all scum, and reduced to a good syrup, and, when cold, mix with it half a pint of brandy. Nutjieg, Tincture of. — Take three ounces of nutmegs, bruise them, and put them into a quart of brandy, and let them steep in it for a fortnight, occa- sionally giving it a shake up ; then pour the liquor clean oft'. Nutmeg /Fafer.—Bruise half a pound of nutmegs; then take an ounce of orange-peel, three gallons of rectified spirits of wine, and a sufficient quantity of water; distil them, and sweeten them with two pounds of loaf sugar. O. OAT Cakes—are made in the same manner as inulfins, using sifted oatmeal instead of flour, and tliree gallons of water instead of two : null thedough into pieces, roll and finish the cakes as di- rected for ^muflins. When wanted, pull the edges apart, toast them nicely on both sides, and then open them com-OL I OL I ( 3; pletely; lay in small pipces of butter, until you liave as much as you may want; close them again, set them before the fire, and cut each in halves or quar- ters. OAniEAL Pudding.— Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the very best fine oatmeal; let itsoak all night; the next day beat two eg^s, and mix a little salt; put it in a basin just large enough ta hold it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. VVhenhold,slice and toast it, and eat it as oat cake buttered. Oatmeal Pudding, New England Fashion.—Steep a pint of whole oatmeal in a quart of boiling milk the overnight; in the morning shred half a pound of beef suet very line, and mix with the oatmeal and milk, some grated nutmeg, and a little salt, with the yolks and whites of three eggs, a quarter of a pound of cur- rants, a quarter of a pound of raisins, and a sufficient quantity of sugar to sweeten it; stir the whole well together, tie it pretty close, and boil it for two hours. Serve with melted butter for sauce. Ollt of Jupiter.*—Take three quarts of spirits of wine, flavoured with essen- tial oil of lemon, the same quantity flavoured with spirit of cedrat; make a syrup with seven pounds of sugar, a gal- lon of water, and two bottles of Scubac; mix the whole together, and by stirring, it will become thick; to clarify it_, take the whites of two eggs in about a pint of the liqueur, and afterwards put it to the Avhole; stir it; then put it into a still in the lain marie moderately heated ; let it remain for twelve hours ; filter the produce of your distillation, and bottle it. Oil Reduce the following articles to an impalpable powder :—an ounce of ekirret seeds, an ounce of carra- way seeds, an ounce of anise seeds, a drachm and a half of mace, and the rind of an orange ; infuse these for five days in a gallon of brandy, then distil from it in a bain marie, two quarts of liqueur ; dissolve over the fire four pounds of su- gar in two quarts of pure water ; when cold, mix it with the distilled liqueur, and colour it of a clear yellow, with a little tincture of safTron ; filter and bottle it; seal the corks. Oil Toast. — Toast some slices of bread, and whilst hot, baste them with oil and lemon-juice; pepper and salt them, and serve very hot. OLIO, a Frenoh one. — Take five pounds of steaks, cut very thick, from the leg of mutton piece of beef; put them into a deep stewpan, add five pounds of any part of veal, and a leg of mutton of 4 ) about six or seven pounds, whidi must be skinned and have the fat token oil'; cover it very closely, and set it over the stove with a very moderate fire; let it stand till the gravy begins to run ; stir up the fire, and let it stand till the meat begins to stick to the pan, but not longer, as it should not be too brown; pour a little beef gravy into it, and stir it about; when thoroughly mixed, put it into a pot, set it upon the Are very closely covered, with a sufficient quantity of gravy to fill the pot; then take twelve carrots, nine parsnips, eight onions, and six turnips ; nut these into the pot, with a bunch of leeks, a bundle of celery, and a handful of mignonette ; let these boil well together, am' then put in a fowl, a turkey, and a couple of pigeons; add a couple of pounds of ham, cut in thick slices *, keep it boiling, and as the scum rises, skim it off' very clean; while these are doing, take four French rolls rasped, pare off the crusts, and put them into a stewpan with a little of the olio liquor; when they are soft, put them into a tureen or into a very deep soup dish; pour in the liquor; let there be some celerv, and some of the other roots put in, with some of the best pieces of the meat, and the pigeons put in whole. This is the way to make the plain French olio; but they often put in partridges to stew in the gravy, sometimes half roasting them be- fore they put them in. Olio, Maigre.—Scald all sorts of roots, such as onions, carrots, parsnips, par- sley-roots, turnips, celery, and leeks ; then boil them in some pease broth, with a mignonette, and some carp trim- mings; when the above vegetobies are sufficiently done, put in a little root gravy, strain, and set it by for any pur- pose which you may require. Olio, 5jita;»'j/i.*-^Take ten pounds of rump of beef, a brisket of veal, a breast of mutton, a knuckle of ham, a chicken, two pigeons, two quails, two old part- ridges, larded and trussed like chickens, a duck, a pound of streaked bacon, a raw German sausage, eight small sausages, seasoned high, tie all these up that they may not fall to pieces, put them into a braising-pan, with some dry peas (put in warm water the nirht be- fore). Moisten the whole, wiin good stock, season it with six pimento, four cloves, a little mace, and some, nutmeg, all tied in a piece of muslin; let this boil for some hours. Take four cabbages, ten lettuces, thirty carrots, as many turnips, blanch and put them into a stewpan covered with slices of bacon, moisten them with the skmimingsof the braise; then take a dozen artichoke-O LI ( 355 ) o M E bottoms (trimmed properly tmd cooked in a blanc), twenty-four glazed onions, a few small carrots and turnips cut into olives, blanched and dressed in a litlle consomme and sugar, some French beans cut in lozenges, young beans, peas, and cucumbers, all blanched separately. Di’ain the meat and vegetables, strain the liiuor, skim and clarify and keep it boiling. Press the cabbages and lettuces, and dish them as follows:—A piece of cabbage, a carrot, a lettuce, a turnip, and cabbage again, and_ so on, till you have made a complete circle round your dish, in the centre put the peas and meat, arrange the artichoke-bottoms on the vegetables at equal distances, a glazed onion between each, and haying tossed up the small vegetables in a little butter and glaze; place a few in every one of the artichoke-bottoms. Glaze the whole and serve it. Olio, SjMrwiVi.—Take some gristles from a breast of veal, also from a brisket of beef, and from a breast of mutton, some sheep’s rumps cut in pieces; they must all be about the size of a finger; take also five pounds of beef-steaks, and put them into a stewing-pan, with a quantity of beef stock, a bunch of leeks, a large bunch of celery picked very clean; they must be stewed till the rumps and gristles are tender ; then put in a couple of pigeons, a brace of partridges, two pair of hog’s feet and ears, the knuckle end of a ham, half of a fine white cab- bage, some pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet basil, two onions, and some cloves; cover these over with some thick beef steaks, and over them some veal-steaks, pour a little fresh stock upon them, and leave them to stew over a gentle fire; let the whole stew till the liquor is eva- porated and the ingredients begin to stick at the bottom ; then put in more stock ; while these are stewing, set on some large peas that have been previously soaked in water for four and twenty hours; set these on to boil in some gravy. The Spaniards make use of a kind of peas, called Garavances; they are large, and not unlike our grey peas; hut if these are not to be had, any large peas will do; these must be boiled very tender, and be ready at the same time as the olio. As the stock boils away, put in more, which must boil a quarter of an hour ; season the olio according to taste, with pepper and salt; have ready a large soup-dish, take out the ingredients, one by one, lay them in the dish; the gristles and the roots must he dispersed about among the other things; then pour over them the peas and their gravy, and then put in a proper quantity of gravy. It must not be eaten as a soup but as an olio, the ingredients in preference to the liquor. Those who prefer the soup may liave it in a basin with toasted bread. OLIVES.—There are three sorts, the Italian, Spanish, and French ; they may be had of various sizes and flavours, some prefer one sort, and some another. The fine salad oil is made from this fruit, for which purpose they are gathered ripe; for pickling they are gathered when only half ripe, at tlie latter end of June; they are put into fresh water to soak for a couple of days; after this they are thrown into lime water, in which some pearl-ashes have been dissolved; in this liquor they lie for six and thirty hours ; they are then put into water which has had bay-salt dissolved in it; this is the last prepara- tion, and they are sent over to us in this liquor ; they are naturally, as they grow on the tree, extremely bitter, and there- fore all tliese preparations are necessary to bring them to their fine flavour. To some olives they add a small quantity of essence of spices, which is an oil drawn from cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, corian- der, and sweet fennel-seed distilled toge- ther for that purpose; twelve drops are sufficient for a bushel of olives; some prefer them flavoured with this essence. Olives, RagoiU of.*—Take some very green olives, cut out the stones, so that the fruit may close to its original form ; put them, one by one, into water, blanch, and then put them into a good cullis, well seasoned. Olives, Ragodt o/.*—Take a small quantity of parsley and scallions, shre^ and give them a few turns in butter, with a little flour; add to this two spoons- ful of gravy, a glass of Champagne, capers, cut small, an anchovy, some olives, witliout their stones, a drop of olive oil, and some good cullis ; season it well, clear away the fat, and serve it with roast meat of various kinds. OMELET.*—Take as many eggs as you think proper (according to the size of your omelet) break them into a basin with some salt and chopped parsley; then beat them well, and season them according to taste, then have ready some onion chopped small; put some butter into a frying- pan, and when it is hot (but not to burn) put in your chopped onion, giving them two or three turns; then add your eggs to It, and fry the whole of a nice brown, you must only fry one side. IVhen done, turn it into a dish, the fried side upper- most, and serve. Omelet d In Celestine.*—Make four omelets, of tlireeeggs each, and as thin as possible; slide them carefully on theOME ( 356 ) OM E table, lay fi angipane on, and roll them up into the form of a mull; trim the ends and place them on a dish, sprinkle them with powder-sugar, glaze, and serve them. Omelet, d la CVewje,—Boil a pint of cream, and put into it the crumb of a Frencli roll, parsley, 8haIots(both shred small), a little pepper and salt; stir it over the fire till quite thick ; then add half a dozen eggs; fry your omelet, ob- serve that it will require rather more time than usual. Omelets d la Dauphine. — Having made one or two thin omelets (without any seasoning) lay them on a dish, and spread over them some pistachio cream, cherry and apricot marmalade; roll them up. cut them into small pieces, each of which enclose in almond paste; strew powder-sugar over, and glaze them with a salamander. Omelets nf Eggs for ganiis/iing or cutting in Shps.—Break your eggs, and put the yolks and whites into separate pans; beat them up with a little salt, and then put them again into separate earthen vessels rubbed with sweet oil. Have ready a pot of boiling water over a ■fire; put them in closely covered, and let the omelets steam till thoroughly done. Ojielet d la Femfere.—Break the number of eggs you think necessary for the size of the omelet, beat them up with chopped parsley, shalots, sorrel, epper, and salt; fry it as usual; when one, put a piece of fried bread on it; roll the omelet round, and serve it. Omelet Frffto's.—Make two or three thin omelets, adding a little sweet basil to the usual ingredients; cut them into small pieces and roll them into the form of olives; when cold, dip them into bat- ter, or enclose them in pulf-paste ; fry, and serve them with fried parsley. Omelet d la Gend’arme.—Make a ra- gofit with sorrel, Parmesan cheese grated, and bread-crumbs; fry two omelets in the usual manner, between which put the above rago&t; place them on a dish; cut some pieces of bread, fry them, dip the edge of each in some white of egg to make them stick, set them round the omelet, over which pour a little melted butter, strew bread-criimbs and Parme- san cheese on it, and colour it in the oven or witli^ a salamander. O.MELET Gtaccc.* — Whip up some fresh eggs with a small (luantity of salt, a little candied lemon-peel, and pounded macaroons; beat them together well, and then fry them ns usual, sprinkle the omelet with sugar, and serve. Omelets en Hutcrcaujc.—^lixkc your omelets thin, with sweet herbs, oil in- stead of butter, pepper, and salt, cut them into pieces; between two of wliich place fried bread and anchovies cut in fillets or slips ; serve them hot. Omelet d I’Jtalienne.*—Break your eggs as usual, add salt, pepper, shred parsley, cream, and olive-oil; beat these ingredients well, and make three or four omelets of them, thin, but not too dry; cut some anchovies into thin slips, which lay on each of the omelets, placing the latter one on the other; cement them together, and when cold, having beaten up two eggs, dip in the omelets, bread and fry them to a nice colour. Omelet d la Jardiniere.*—a rich ragofit of all sorts of vegetables which may be in season, half of which put to a dozen eggs, beat them together, and fry your omelet as usual; when done, pour the remainder of the ragofit over, and serve. Omelet au Naturel.*—Break eight or ten eggs into a pan, add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of cold water, beat them up with a whisk ; in the mean time put some fresh butter into a frying-pan, when it is quite melted and nearly boiling, put in the eggs, &c. with a skimmer ; as it is frying, take up the edges, that they may be properly done; when cooked, double it; serve very hot. Omelet uu Sung.—This is made pre- cisely the same as the common omelet; the only'difl'erence consists in the addi- tion of poultry or lamb’s blood to the usual ingredients. Ojielet Souffles.*—Break six eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, to the latter, put four dessert spoonsful of powder-sugar, and the rind of a lemon chopped exceedinifly small; mix them well, whip the whites as if for biscuits, and add them to the rest; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a frying-pan, over a brisk fire ; as soon as it is com- pletely melted, pour in the above, stir it up, that the butter may be thoroughly intorporated with the omelet, and when that is the case, strain it into a buttered dish, which place on hot ashes, strew powder-sugar over, and colour the top carefully with a salamander. O.MELET Sovfflcc. ill a il/onW.*—Break six fine eggs, separate the whites and yolks; put to the latter three spoonsful of powder-sugar, four crushed maca- roons, a spoonful of potitoe-flour. a little crisped orange-flower in powder ; stir them together well, whip the whites to a froth, mix them with the yolks, and pour the whole into a buttered mould, nut do not fill it; set it in a moderate oven, the same as for biscuits ; whenONI (357) ONI done, turn it out on a dish, and serve it. This omelet should be of a clear colour, and shake like a jelly. Omelet Stuffed.*—Make your omelet as au Naturei, but before you turn the ends over, lay on it a farce of sorrel; double the omelet before you take it from the pan, so that none of the farce may be perceived, and cement the edges with white of eggs ; serve it very hot. Any other sort of farce may be applied in the same way. Omelet with Sweetmeats.*—Make an omelet with nine eggs ; when quite done, spread over with any kind of sweetmeat you may think proper ; roll it up to the form of a muff, strew powder-sugar over; make a skewer quite hot, run them through, and fry them. ONIONS with Carp Hoes.—Make a roux with butter and flour, to which add a little onion gravy, some large onions (previously scalded), a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, scallions, thyme, ba- sil, bay-leaf, and a few cloves; when nearly done, put in some carp roes, and leave them a little longer; then take out the parsley, reduce the sauce ready for table, put in a few capers chopped, and one or two anchovies ; gar- nish your dish with fried bread. Onion Cullis, Maigre of.— Put some sliced onions into a pan with a little but- ter, set it on a brisk fire ; when brown, add two spoonsful of flour, keep it stir- ring, put to it some broth, a glass of white wine, two cloves, a bay-leaf, thyme, and basil; let it boil for an hour, skim, and rub it through a sieve, with seasoning according to your taste. Onions, Garbure of. — Take about forty onions, cut them into quarters, which divide into two or three slices, (having taken ofi' the skins, heads, and stalks); put about half a pound of butter into a pan, and v^hen it is melted, fry the onions in it, of a nice clear colour. Then have some bread cut in thin slices; place a layer of this on a dish, then a layer of onions, and so on alternately, until the dish is quite full, strewing pep- per and salt between each. Pour some stock over the whole, and set it on the fire to simmer, till the gi'atin is formed, taking great care not to let it burn, as that will make it bitter, but all the mois- ture must be completely dried up. Have some broth in a separate dish, and serve it. Onions Glazed.*—Choose your onions as near of a size as you can, peel them with care; butter the bottom of your Btewpan, lay the onions on it head down- wards, a piece of sugar the size of a wal- nut, and a sufficient quantity of stock or water, to reach the tails of the onions; set them on a brisk fire; when the liquor is reduced to about three-fourths, lessen your fire, and let it stand till it becomes quite a jelly. Large or small onions may be glazed thus, being careful, however (as above mentioned), to select them as nearly of a size as possible. Onions {Matelote of).— Take seven or eight pieces of ox tails, and having scald- ed, braise them in some stock, with pars- ley. two cloves, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper and salt; when about half done, put in eight large onions (previously scalded) ; as soon as they are quite done, take them out, strain the sauce, to which add a glass of port wine and some cullis. Serve your matelote as usual. (See Matelote.) Onion Omefef.*—Out some very white onions into slices, give them a few turns over the fire; when nearly done, moisten them with cream, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; mix this with half a dozen eggs; beat the whole up well, and fry the omelet either in oil or butter. Onion Omelet.— Take two or three good sized onions, cut them into slices, and fry them in butter ; when they are done, add the yolks of two eggs, and a little chopped parsley; fry two small omelets, on which lay the onions, with two or three anchovies, cut in slips ; roll them up lengthwise ; fry some pieces of crumb, cut the omelets to the shape and size of these, and place them thereon ; pour melted butter, and strew bread crumbs and grated Parmesan over them, and colour it in the oven. Onions with Parmesan Cheese.—Pare six large mild onions, and cut them into round slices, half an inch in thickness. Then make a batter with flour, half a gill of cream, a little pepper, salt, and three e^gs, beat up for ten minutes; after which add a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese grated tine, and mixed well together, to which add the onions. Have ready some boiling lard; then take the slices of onions out of the batter with a fork, singly, and fry them gently till done of a nice brown. Drain them dry, and serve them up placed round each other. For sauce, melted butter with a little mustard in it. Onions {to Pickle).*—Peel the onions till they look white; boil some strong salt and water, and pour it over them; let them stand in this twenty-four hours, keep the vessel closely covered to retain the steam : after that time wipe the onions quite dry, and when they are cold, pour boiling vinegar, tvith ginger and white pepper over them. Take care the vinegar always covers the onions. Onions {to /^ic/(-/c).*—Shift the onionsONI ( 358 ) ONI with their peels on every morning, in fresh water, for nine days, then peel them; make a brine sufficiently strong to bear an egg, boil it, and pour it on the onions, let tItem stand for four-and-twenty hours; then boil vinegar, with pepper, horse-radish, ginger, and mustard-seed, and put it boiling hot to the onions, and let them stand for three days, then boil it again, and let them stand for another three days; after this, boil them all up together, and stop them close down; they will be fit for use as soon as they are cold. Onions, Potage of.*—Set some good milk on the fire, season it with salt and pepper; whilst it is boiling, melt some butter in a stewpan, add to this some sliced onions, stir them up, and when they are lightly browned, put them to the boiling milk, and simmer altogether for half an hour. Put the bread into a basin, pour a sufficient quantity of Uie soup over to soak it, and v/hen it has im- bibed as much as you wish, put it into a soup tureen, fill it with your soup, lay the onions on the bread, and serve. Onions, Purie of {Brown).*—Take from thirty to forty onions, according to their size; peel and cut them down in half, taking oft'the tops and stalks, and then slice them; put six ounces of butter into a saucepan, with the onions, which fry lightly till of a nice colour; then add two ladiesful of espagnolr, one of stock, and reduce your puree; when suflici- ently thick, rub it tliiougli acoarse sieve. Great care should be taken not to let the puree boil. Onions, Puree of {fVhite).*—Prepare the onions in the same manner as for the brown puree, except that they must not be allowed to take colour; when done, add to them some veloute, or cream, re- duce this over a large tire, stirring con- stantly with a wooden spoon ; when the pxiree is sufficiently thick, rub it through a sieve. Onions, RagoUtof.*—Blanch and stew your onions in equal quantities of con- somme, and champaign ; add a spoonful of olive oil, salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let these all simmer toge- ther till the onions are suHiciently done. Onions, RugotU of.—Peel a pint of small onions, and take four largo ones and cut them very small; then melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a stew- pan ; when it has done hissing, put in the onions, and fry them a light brown ; then shake in a little flour, and shake them round till they are thick; add a little salt, a little beaten pepper, a quar- ter of a pint of good gravy, and a tea- spoonful of mustard, stir ail well toge- ther ; when well flavoured, and of a good thickness, pour it into a dish, and garnish with fried bread crumbs. Onion Salad, with Beet Root. — HoiX some large onions till well done; then put them on a dish to cool; liave some beet root well baked, cut it into thin slices, and cut the onions into slices also; then lay a slice of onion between two of beet, arranging them in whatever form you think proper on the dish ; serve over them an Italienne sauce, the same as for Ralienne salad. Onion Sauce.—Ve.e\ some onions, boil them in milk and water, put a turnip with them into the pot (it draws out the strength) ; change the water twice ; pulp them through a cullender, or chop them ; then put them into a saucepan with some cream, a piece of butter, a little flour, some pepper and salt: they must be served very smooth. Onion Sauce.—The onions must be peeled, and then boiled till they are ten- der ; then squeeze the water from them ; chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, with a little good milk instead of water ; give it one boil, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions draws out their strength. Onion Sauce {Broum).—Peel and slice the onions (some put in an equal quan- tity of cucumber or celery) into a quart stew'pan, with an ounce of butter; set it over a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is very lightly browned ; then gra- dually stir in half an ounce of flour ; add a little broth, and a little pepper and salt, boil up for a few minutes; add a table-spoonful of claret, or port wine, and some mushroom ketchup (you may add, if you think proper, a little lemon- juice or vinegar), and rub it through a tammy, or fine sieve. Onion Soup.—Put into the water in which a leg or neck of mutton has been boiled, some carrots, turnips, and a shank bone, and let it simmer for a couple of hours. Strain it on half a dozen onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown ; simmer the whole for three hour', skim it carefully, and serve. Put in a little roll, or fried bread. Onions Steioed.—Peel half a dozen onions, fry them gently of a nice brown, taking care not to blacken them; then put them into a small stewpan, with a little weak gravy, pepper, and salt; cover them, and let them gently stew for two hours. Lightlv flour them at first. Onions Sfi//7crf.*—Peel four.and twenty large onions, very carefully, blanch, cool, anu then having drained them, scoop outORA ( 359 ) ORA the inner part of the onions, and fill them with a quentlle farce, put them into a Rtewpan, let tliem all lay flat, cover them with slices of bacon, add some water, a little salt, and a small quantity of sugar, set them on a large fire at first, but lessen the fire after- wards ; let them stand till done, then reduce the liquor, and make use of the onions as garnish for large dishes. ORANGE Biscuits.*—Take thegrated rind of an orange, six, fresh eggs, a quar- ter of a pound of flour, and three quarters of a pound of powder sugar ; put these into a mortar, heat them to a paste, which put into cases, and bake like other biscuits. Orange Biscuits, or Little Cakes.— Boil some Seville oranges whole in seve- ral waters, till all the bitterness is taken from them ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice; then put the outsides into a mortar, and beat them very fine, add to it an equal weight of double re- fined sugar, beaten and sifted. When thoroughly well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on china disheSi and set them in the sun, or before the fire ; when they are about half dry, cut them into what- ever form you please, turn the other side up, and dry that. Keep them in a box with layers of paper. Oranges in Bi-andy.* — Choose the oranges very round and smooth, pare, prick them in the middle, and put them into cold water ; then hlanch them in boiling water; when they are tender, throw them again into cold water; in a short time give them seven or eight boils in sugar, d la petite nappe, skim, and let them stand till next day, when the same process must be gone through ; skim them again, then put them into bottles, pour over them equal quantities of syrup and water; take care to cork them well. Oranges in Brandy. — Choose your oranges as near of a size as you can, and boil them till a pin will penetrate the skins with ease; do not take out the pulp, but make a small hole through the stalk end; give them a boil in some cla- rified sugar, and set them aside; the next day, drain ofl’ the syrup, boil and pour it on the fruit whilst hot; on the third day repeat this operation, put the oranges into it, and boil them together ; take out the fruit, add ns much brandy as syrup, make it hot, but it must not boil; when cold, pour it over the oranges, which ought to float in the liquid. Orange Butter. — Take half a dozen eggs, and boil them hard, heat them in a mortar, with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of almonds, bleached and beaten to a fine paste. Moisten with orange-flower waters and when all is mi.xed, rub it through a cullender, on a dish, and serve with sweet biscuits between. ORAHGE3 Buttered Hot. — Take four Seville oranges, grate oli'a little of the outside rind, and cut a round hole at the blunt end of the or.ange, opposite the stalk, sufficiently large to take out the pulp, seeds, and juice ; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges over with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. Be care- ful to save the bits you cut out of the oranges. Boil the oranges in fresh water until they are tender, changing the water to take out the bitterness._ In the mean- time, make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up ; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover them, and let them remain in hot till they are to be served. About half an hour liefore you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set it over the fire ; mix it well, and let it boil; then add a spooiiful of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of butter, and stir over the fire to thicken ; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the pieces which were cut out of the oranges at the top. Orange Cheesecakes.—Blanch eight ounces of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and heat and sift half a pound of sugar, and melt a pound of butter very carefully without oiling (the butter must be nearly cold before you use it for your cheesecakes), then beat the yolks of ten and the whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fre.shone (having previously boiled out the bitterness) in a mortar, till as ten- der as marmalade, without any lumps; then mix the whole together, and put into patty-pans. Oranges, Compote of.*—Cut them in small pieces, and boil them in water until tlicy are tender, then change them into cold water ; next make a syrup with one glass of water and four ounces of sugar, and put in the fruit; let it sim- mer gently over a slow fire for half an hour ; serve cold. Oranges, Compoteof.*—Takeasmany oranges as you may require, pare them neatly, cut them into quarters, which, (as you lake out the pips) throw into cold water; then scald them, and tvhew they appear soft, throw them again into cold water; in the mean time boil some sugar to petit lisse, put the oranges in, and having given them several boils to- gether, set them to cool. When quite360 ORA O II A cold, take tlic fruit out of the syrup, and put them into compotiers; boil the syrup a few times, and as soon as it cools, pour it over the fruit. Oranges (Raw) CompCte o/.*—Cut the upper part of six good oranges, so that you can put them together again so as to appear whole; pierce the pulp in several places with a small knife, and fill the incisions with fine powder-sugar and a little brandy; then replace the pieces you have cut off, and serve the oranges in a dessert dish. Obange Cream.*—Pare the rind ef a Seville orange ^ery thin j squeeze the j nice of four oranges, put it with the peel into a tossing-pan with a pint ofwater and eight ounces of sugar, beat the whites of five eggs, mix all together, set it over a slow fire, stir it one ivay till it looks thick and white, then strain it through a gauze sieve, stirring it till cold, tlien beat the yolks of the five eggs very fine, and put it into the pan with some cream ; stir it over the fire till ready to boil, then pour it into a basin, stir it till quite cold before you put it into glasses. Orange Cream, Frothed.—Make a pint of cream very sweet, put it over the fire, let it just boil, put the juice of a large orange into a small deep glass, having previously steeped a bit of orange- peel for a short time in the juice ; when the cream is almost cold, pour it out of a tea-pot upon the juice, holding it as high as possible. Orange, Croque en Bouches of. * — Pare a dozen fine oranges, and divide each into twelve pieces, all of the same size; scrape off every particle of the white, without breaking the thin skin which contains the juice; when all are done, dip each piece into some sugar boiled to eassefand lightly coloured), and place them in a plain mould of six inches dianieter, and five in height; the first row inclined one way, the second the re- verse way, and so on; lay them at the bottom in a star. As soon as the mould is full, turn it out, and serve it with all possible expedition, ns the moisture of the fruit dissolves the sugar so rapidly, that the croque en houche is liable to fall to pieces. Orange Custard.*—Having boiled the rind of a Seville orange very tender, beat it in a mortar to a fine paste; put to it the juice of a Seville orange, a spoonful of the best brandy, four ounces of loaf- sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat them all well together ten minutes, then pour in by degrees a pint of boiling cream; keep beating it till cold; put it into custard glasses. Set them in an earthen dish of liot water ; let them stand till they are set, then stick pre- served orange, or orange chips, on the top. 11 may be served hut or cold. Orange (Fine).*—Infuse the peels of a dozen large oranges for some days, in six quarts of the best brandy ; after which add a quart of water, and distil the whole; this will yield about a gtillon of liqueur. Dissolve three pounds and a half of su- gar in seven pints of water; add this syrup to the liqueur, and then strain and bottle it. Oranges (Florentine qf) with Apples. —Take half a dozen oranges, save the juice, and take out the pulp; lay the rinds in water twenty-four hours, chang- ing the water three or four times; then boil them in three or four different waters, then strain the water off, put them and their juice, with a {xiund of sugar, and put them by for use; when they are used, boil ten pippins in a little sugar and water, pare, quarter, and core them, and mix them with some of the oranges; lay a puff-paste in the dish, and then put in the fruit; cover it with a thin crust, rolled and laid across ; it may be cut into whatever shape you please. Orange Fool.*—Take the juice of six oranges, six eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix all well together ; stir it over a slow fire till thick, then put in a small piece of butler, and keep stirring it till cold. Orange Fritters. — Take one or two preserved oranges, cut them into as many pieces as y'ou think proper ; make a gwd thick batter with sweet wine, and finish the same as all others. Orange Fritters.—Pare off the rind of some oranges, very thin, cut them into quarters, and blanch them for a quarter of an hour; then drain them, take out the pips, and put the oranges into a light syrup; simmer, and reduce them to cara- mel, take tiiem from the fire, and when cold, cover them with syrup, dip each quarter into batter, and fry them of a nice colour; sprinkle them with powder sugar, glaze, and serve them. Orange Gimbletics.*—Grate the rinds of two very sound oranges on a piece of sugar, which scrape off, and mix with some more, so as to make six ounces ; pound four ounces of blanched almonds. Put half a pound of sifted flour on a slab, niiike a hole in the middle, into which put four drachms of yeast (diluted with a small quantity of milk), two ounces of butler, the yolks of two eggs, a grain of salt, the almonds and the sugar; mix those altogether, and leave ihe paste in a ivarm place for five or six hours, that itORA ( 361 ) ORA 1 may rise; after that time break up the paste, and roll it into little bands the size of your little finger, which cut bias into pieces five inches in length, and form them into little rings, joining the bias ends very neatly ; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, stir the sur- face lightly in order to make the blettes rise, and prevent them irom sticking to each other; in a few minutes drain, and put them into cold water ; w'hen quite cold, drain th.em again, dorez, and place them on lightly waxed copper- plates ; put them in a slow oven, and bake them to a nice colour. Orange Ice*—Take ten fine blood oranges, peel, and divide them into quar- ters ; take out the pips and heart, and then pound them with the grated rinds of two of the oranges; put them into a strong cloth, and press out all the juice, which mix with half a pound of sugar, previously dissolveil in a pint uf water ; ut this mixture into a sorbetiereor ice- ox, and ice it as directed. (See Ice.) Orange Jelly. — Put two quarts of spring-water into a saucepan, with half a pound of hartshorn shavings, or four I ounces of isinglass, and boil it gently till I it becomes a strong jelly. Take the I juice of three Seville oranges, three le- [ mons, and six China oranges, the rind of I one Seville orange and one lemon, pared I very thin ; put them to your jelly, I sweeten with loaf-sugar to your taste, I beat up the whites of eight eggs to a froth, 1 mix them well in. and boil it for ten [minutes; then run it through a jelly- bag till it is very clear, put it into your moulds, and let it stand till it is tho- I roughly cold ; then dip your moulds in [ warm water, and turn them into a China n dish or flat glass I Orange Jelly en Rubans.* — Prepare the rinds of seven oranges as directed (see oranges en eur/:rise), and make half the quantity of jelly ; take an equal quan- tity of blanc-mange, and whilst the peels are in ice, put into each a dessert spoon- ful of the latter; as soon as this is con- gealed, pour on it a spoonful and a half of orange-jelly; let that set, and add two spoonsful of blanc-7)iange, then two of jelly, and so on till the peels are filled; when quite ready for table, cut them carefully.into quarters, and arrange them with taste, on a dish, or in a confectionary ba'-ket. Orange (Treoi.ifiaren.t) Jelly.* — Take the juice of twelve oranges and two le- mons, having taken care that none of the pips are in, pare two of the sweetest oranges as thin as possible, put the juice and rind into a bag, and when it has filtered through, mix it with the syrup tinged with cochineal, add the isinglass, and finish it in the usual manner. (See Fruit Jelly.) OnAUGE Juice Buttered.—Take seven Seville oranges, squeeze the juice from them, and mix it with four spoonsful of rose-wa'cr, and add the whole to the yolks of eight and the whites of four eggs, well beaten ; strain the liquor to half a pound of pounded sugar, and stir it over a moderate fire, and as soon as it begins to thicken, add to it a bit of Imt- ter about the size of a walnut; keep it a few minutes longer ever the fire; then pour it into a dish, and serve cold. Orange Juice to Keep.* — To every pint of juice put three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar; let it boil a little, and then put it into bottles. Orange Loaves.—Cut the fruit into halves, squeeze them and preserve the liquor; boil the peels in several waters, to take out the bitterness; then let them lay for two days in syrup ; boil the. syrup again after that period to a good consistency, add the peels, afterwards put them into glasses for use ; when they are wanted, take what quantity is sufficient foradish,and fill them with some pudding mixture, either marrow, bread, plum, &c. or with a custard, and bake them carefully. Orange Marmalade.*— Take eight Seville oranges, three lemons, pare them very thin, take out all the juice and pulp, lay the peels in water twenty-four hours, changing them once or twice, lay them on a coarse cloth to drain ; then take the weight of juice, pulp, and peel, in lump sugar; boil the whole a quarter otan hour or twenty minutes; the peel should be cut in long narrow slips ; be careful not to leave any seeds or white part of the rind. Orange Marinalade.*—Take the peels of fibeen oranges (without any of the white), blanch them till tender; then put them into cold water; in a few minutes take them out, drain and pound them to a paste, which rub through a sieve: weigh it, and for each pound allow a pound and half of sugar, clarify and boil the latter io fort perlc; add the paste and boll them together, stirring con- stantly till the marmalade is done, which may lie known thus: take some up be- tween your thumb and finger, and, if on op“ningthem, the marmalade draws out like a thread, it is at the right point, and may he pwt into pots. Orange Posset.—Squeeze thejuire of two Seville oranges into a china bowl or small deep dish that will hold about a quart, sweeten it like syrup, add a little brandy ; boil one pint of crcuui with a 2 10;R a ( 362 ORA bit of orange-peel; vflien cold, put the cream into a tea-pot, pour it to the syrup, bolding it high; and let it be made the day before it is wanted. Okanues, to Preserve.*—Rasp or cut the oranges in scallops with a penknife, and throw them into wa er, change it once a day for three days; then boil them till tender enongh to run a wheat straw through ; then put them into cold water till the next day ; pulp, and wipe them very dry ; have the syrup ready, boil them two or three times till very clear. Observe to put the syrup to them ■when cold ; make it the same as for cu- cumbers. Oranges Preserved Dry.*—Take some thick rinded oranges, and mark the quarters, but without actually dividing them ; then pare and throw them into cold water ; after which put them into boiling water; let them remain till the head of a pin will easily penetrate the skin, and then throw them again into cold water. Clarify and boil some sugar to lisse, put in the oranges, boil them together a little while, and then pour the whole into a pan ; the next day drain olf the syrup, and having boiled it up a few tiines, pour it again on the oranges ; the third day drain off the syrup as before, and having boiled it to la nappe, add some more clariiiedsugarand the oranges, give the whole one boil, covered ; put it aside as above; repeat this operation two more days ; on the last, increase the degree of the sugar to perle, and having added the fruit, boil three or four times; then set them in a stove fo® two days; when the oranges may be placed in boxes, which must be kept in a dry- place. Oranges Preserved {Liquid).*—Take a dozen fine oranges, pare them very carefully, tie the rindsround the oranges and put them into boiling water, in which they should remain (on the fire) for three or four hours ; when sufficiently done, a pin’s head will easily penetrate the skins; they must then be thrown into cold water; in a few minutes cut each into five or six pieces ; clarify three pounds of sugar, take out half of it, boil the remainder to lissc; add the oranges, boil them together and put them aside; drai n off, boil and replace the syrup for twelve successive days, each day adding a portion of the reserved sugar : at the end of that time the fruit may be put into pots. OuANOES to Preserve in Jelly.—Cwt a bole, about the size of a shilling, in the stalk part of the orange, and with a blunt small knife, scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rmd. '1 ie each orange separately in muslin, and let them lay for two days in spring-water, changing the water twice a day; in the last, boil them tender on a slow fire. Take care that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they must be co- vered to the last. To each pound of fruit weigh two pounds of double-refined su- gar, and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim it well, and let it stand to become cold; then boil the fruit in the syrap for half an hour; if not clear, repeat this daily till they are done. Another f-Vuy.—Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them -.donut break them, only press them gently with the back of a spoon; strain the water through a jelly- bag till qaite clear; then to every pint, put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of one lemon, and boil to a strong syrup ; drain off the syrup from the juice, and turn each orange with the hole upwards in the jar, pour the apple- jelly overit. The bits wfiich where cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy-paper. Orange Pudding.—Put six ounces of fresh butter, and eight ounces of lump- sugar pounded, in a mortar; then grate in the rind of a Seville orange; beat the whole well together, and, as you do it, add the whole of eight eggs, well beaten and strained ; scrape a hard apple, and mix with the other ingredients; put paste at the bottom of the dish, put in the mixture, and then put over it cross- bars of paste. Half an hour will be suf- ficient to bake it. Orange Pudding,NewEnglandFashinn. — Squeeze the juice of three Seville oranges on halfa pound of loaf-sugar; take the yolks of ten eggs, well beaten ; melt half a pound of butter thick : mix these well together, with four ounces of blanch- ed almonds, well pounded, w-ith a little orange flower water, the peel of one of the oranges grated ; put a thin crust at tlie bottom of the dish. OnAUQSs Pulped.— Either pare your oranges extremely thin, or rasp them: cut a hole at the stalk, pulp them very clean, put them into a pot, more than cover them with spring-water and a little salt; lay a cloth upon the top three limes doubled, then upon th it a trencher or cover ; let them scald gently, chang- ing the water five or six tiines in the scalding (put salt into the first water) : they must be so lender that a straw will pass thiough them; keep them in the last water till they can be taken out with the hands; put them on cloths, theORA ( 363 ) ORA 2 12 i mouths downwards, changing them_ to )i dry places ; when dry, put them into I milk-warm syrup; let them lie half an 1 hour: iiistscald them; take, them out, put J them into a deep china dish, pour the $ 8yrupover,coverthera with another dish, I scald them once in two or three days for i a fortnight; the last time, boil them up } quick till they look clear, turning them i about as often as there is occasion; if i’ any part looks white and thick, strew I sugar over it in the boiling; when they (' are transparent put them into pots; pour ii the syrup over scalding hot; put brandy- I' paper, and tie on a bladder. For syrup, ; ] a pound of sugar to a pint of water. i' OaANGES, Roquilles of-* — The peels ;l taken from preserved oranges are thus called ; they are tied up and done with I oranges; the third day they are drained, I and put in a stove to dry, taking care to ; move them frequently, to prevent their I sticking together ; when perfectly dry, i put them into boxes. Orange Sawce.*—Put into a stewpan half a glass of stock, the same of gravy, a slice of bam, some small pieces of orange-peel, about half an ounce of but- ter rolled in flour, salt and pepper ; sim- mer these over the fire till thick, and then add the juice of an orange. Orange Gravy Sauce.—Put half a pint of veal gravy into a saucepan, add to it half a dozen basil leaves, a small onion, and a roll of orange or lemon-peel, and let it boil for a few minutes, and strain it off. Put to the clear gravy, the juice of a Seville orange or lemon, half a tea- spoonful of salt, the same quantity of pepper, and a glass of red wine; serve it hot; shalot and cayenne may be added. Orange Sherbet.*—Dissolve a pound and half of sugar in a quart of very pure water; take nine fine oranges and two lemons ; wipe them well with a napkin, and having grated the most fragrant rinds, squeeze on them the juice of these fruits; sweeten this juice;with theabove syrup, run the whole through a close liair sieve, and finish in the usual way. (See Sherbet.) Orange Shrub.*—Put ten pounds of crushed sugar to two gallons of water, and boil it until the sugar be dissolved; ekim it well, and put it into a tub ; when quite cold, pour it into a barrel; add three quarts of Jamaica rum, and six quarts of orange-juice (take care there are no pips). Beat up the white of an egg, mix it with the shrub, and let it stand for a week; then draw it olT and bottle it. Orange Sugar.*—Rasp on a piece of sugar the rinds of the best oranifes, but so lightly that not a particle of the white is mixed with it; scrape off the surface of the sugar as it becomes coloured, and continue this operation until you have as much sugar as you require; then lay it in a stove, or at the mouth of the oven to dry; when it is perfectly so, pass it through a very fine sieve. Lemons and cedrats may be grated, and the sugar dried in the same man- ner. Oranges en Surprise.* — Take ten oranges,choose them of avery good.form, and the rinds smooth, close, and deep- coloured ; cut a piece off the stalk end of the orange, being careful to make the knot exactly in the centre; then, with a tea-spoon, clear out all the juice, &c. from the oranges with the greatest care, so that the rind be not injured ; separate the white from the juice, which filter and make into jelly. As every orange is thus emptied, plunge it into cold water, and afterwards lay them two inches apart, on a sieve, round which place plenty of pounded ice. When about to be sent to table, fill each rind with the jelly, and lay the tops on ; place six of them on a napkin, neatly folded in a dish, and a seventh on the top. If you think proper, you may divide the rind in quarters, by which means the clear jelly within will be shewn to great advantage. These oranges en surprise^ are sometimes served in baskets made of coloured confectionary. Orange Tarts. * -^Pare the oranges very thin, put them into water for two or three days, changing the water several times; then boil them till tender, and the bitterness extracted ; when cold, cut a thick slice off the top and bottom, and the rest as thick as a crown-piece: put a puff- paste into the tartlet-pans, then a layer of sugar, and of orange, al- ternately, till the pans are full: bake them. Orange Tar<.-—Squeeze, pulp, and boil until tender, a couple of Seville oranges; then weigh them, and take double their weight of sugar: beat the orange and sugar together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp, of the oranges, and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, beat them all together. Then line a very shallow dish with a light puff- crust, and lay the orange in it. You may ice It, if you think proper. Orange IVine.*—A. dozen of oranges to a gallon of water, and three pounds and a half of fine loaf-sugar ; pare your oranges very thin, and take off all the white skin ; squeeze them well, then put the juice, the oranges, and the water to- gether, and let it stand in the tub fur four and twenty hours; then strain it off,\ ORA ( 364 ) ORA and put it into a barrel with the sugar, half the peels, and a quart of the best brandy ; bung it down when it has done liissing. It must stand for twelve months before it is bottled. The water is to be cold, not boiled. OnANGES (China) Zest of.— Pare off the outside rind of the oranges very thin, and only strew it over with tine powder- sugar, as much as their own moisture will take, and set them to dry in a hot stave. Orangeade.—Squeeze the juice; pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover it closely ; boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it; when all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much water as will make a rich sherbet; strain it through a jelly- bag. Orangeade.*—This refreshing bever- age is made precisely in the same man- ner as lemonade, only substituting oranges for lemons. Orangeade Pie.—Make a thin crust with hot buttered paste ; then slice the oranges, and lay over the bottom ; pare and core some pippins, cut each into eight parts, and lay them over the oranges; then lay the oranges on the pippins, and pour over them some syrup of orangeade, strew sugar over the top, close up the pie, bake it, then strew some sugar over it. Orange (Bitter) Sauce. * —Pare two bitter oranges very thin, blanch the rinds, and then put them into a rich espagnole reduced j add a small piece of sugar, and season it vvell ; just before serving, squeeze in the juice of one of the oranges, 'and part of a lemon. OiiAtiGB (China) Jtiice to Preserve.— Take the finestChinaoiangeslhatcan be procured, squeeze from them a pint of juice; strain it through a fine muslin, and let it simmer gently for twenty minutes, with three quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar; when cold, put it into small bottles. Orange (China) fVater Ice.—Rasp a China orange, take the juice of three oianges, and the juice of a lemon; add to it half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of w'ater; pass it, and freeze it rich, and thick. Oranges, Green.—Scrape out the in- sides of the oranges quite clean, then let them lie for three days in cold water, changing the water daily, then boil them very slowly till the water is bitter; then put them into ether boiling water, set them by ; repeating this daily till all the bitieiness is extracted: make a rich syrup of the last water tliey are boiled in, with Lisbon sugar; when cold, put them in; the next day boil them in the syrup; repeat this till they are green and tender; cover with brandy-paper. Orange (Seville) (Voter Ice.—Takeofl' the rind of two Seville oranges, very fine and thin ; squeeze the juice into a basin with one lemon ; add half a pint of syrup, and half a pint of water; pass them through a sieve, and freeze them rich. Orange Chips.—Cut your oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve, let the peel soak in water, the following day boil it in the same till it is tender ; drain them, and slice the peels ; put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together into a broad earthen dish, and put it over the fire at a moderate distance, stirring frequently till the chips candy ; then put them into a cool room to dry. They will not be dry under three weeks. Orange Chips Broiled. — Take the rinds of oranges, cut them into small pieces, and having scalded them a short time, throw them into some sugar boiled to grande plume; stir them well, and when they are of a nice colour, drop them on a baking.plate (previously oiled) like macaroons; strew a little powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. The proportion of sugar is a pound and a half to one pound of the peel. Orange FlowerBalU.*~Vi\\\p\ip the whites of two eggs, with three pounds of powder-sugar, adding by degrees an ounce of orange-flower water, and a pinch ofcarndne in powder; when these ingredients form a tolerably firm paste, pour it on a sheet of paper; cut it in pieces, which make into little balls, by rolling them in your hands; place them on paper about half an inch apart; put them into the oven till they swell a little, then take them out, and keep them dry. Orange Flower Biscuits. — Take the yolks of six eggs,'beat them up with three spoonsful of orange-flower marmalade, and some green lemon-peel grated; then add the whites of twelve eggs whipped to a froth, and a quarter of a pound of sifted flour; mix these together well, put the preparation into paper-cases, bake them like other biscuits, and glaze them when done. Or.inoe Flower Biscuits d la Duchesse. —These are made in the same manner as orange-flower biscuits; the only difTerence consists in the ingredients; rice-flour sifted being substituted for wheat-flour, and dried orange-flowers pulverized in- steail of tlie marmalade, and a pound of powder-sugar added. ORANOc-/'/ovcr Biscuits Souffles.*— Take the white of an egg, with which mix some sifted sugar; when of a properORA ORA ( 365 ) •consistence, add two pinches of dried orange-flowers, mix them well, and half fill some very small paper-cases; put them into a moderate oven, and when on touching them lightly, you find them firm, they are sufficiently baked. Orange Flowers Candied.—Boil some clarified sugar to fovffii, and then thro»v in some picked oratige-floivers, remove it from the fire, replace it in a qiiarter of an hour, and let it rise to souffle again ; take it off a second time, and when about half cold, pour it into moulds, which place in a moderately heated stove ; keep it at the same temperature whilst the candy is drying ; when done, the top should sparkle like diamonds; set the moulds on one side to drain for some time, before you turn out the candy, which must he kept in a dry place. OnAyoE-Flowers Clarequet. — Having pared some gulden pippins perfectly, slice the apples very thin, wash them in seve- ral waters, and then boil them slowly with a little water in a covered saucepan, until the apples are entirely reduced; strain it through a damp cloth, and mix with it over the fire, a spoonful of orange- flower marmalade,give them one boil to- gether, then strain it again through a damp cloth, 1)oil an equal quantity of sugar to cassc, put the liquid, a little at a time, to this, let it stand a moment; then take it off, skim, and replace it on the fire, and when the whole has boiled up tivo or three times,pourit into glasses. O RANGE- Flowers, Compote o/.*—Choose your flowers very white and well picked, throw them into boiling water, and blanch them till you can crush them with your fingers; then take them out, and put them in cold water with some lemon- juice ; change the water several times, having lemon-juice in each ; then di-ain, and put them into clarified sugar (luke- warm), cover, and leave the flowers to imbibe the sugar for three or four hours.) O RANGE-F/oieer Conserve.—Boil half a pound of clarified sugar to grande plume, take it from the fire, and pour into it a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water; stir them together well, set tlie mixture on the fire, and when warm, pnur it into shallow paper-cases; let it cool, and then cut it into cakes of any form you please. O RANGE-.Ffoieer Crea^n.—Having boil- ed a pint of cream with the same quan- tity of milk, add some sugar, and a small quantity of salt, and when it boils, put in a good pinch of orange-fluwcrs; cover, and continue to boil until the cream is well flavoured with the flowers ; then mix with it the yolks of ten or six eggs, ac- coidingtothe size of your mould, stir them over the fire, taking care not to Jet it boil; take it off, put in the clarified isinglass, and rub it tliiough a silk sieve; pour it into a mould or cups, which place in a pan, with a sufficient quantity of water to reach half way, cover, and put fire on the lid, to prevent the steam from dropping on the cream; when done, let it cool. If the cream is for cups, as many eggs must be put in as you have cups. Orange Flower Creme.* — Put five pounds of sugar into three quarts of pure water; when the former is quite dissolv ed, and has boiled, put to it a pound and three quarters_ of picked orange flowers, and pour it into a vessel, which cover very closely till cold, then add three quarts of Champagne wine, and the same of rectified spirits of wine; leave it, and the next day filter and bottle it. OnAtiGE Flowers Froma^e Bavarois.* — Throw a handful of picked orange- flowers into a pint of boilmg cream, cover and let it cool; then (if the cream is sufficiently flavoured) strain, and mix it with another pint of thick cream ; beat it over ice till it acquires the proper con- sistence ; mix pounded sugar with some clarified isinglass; put this mixture to the cream, stirring continually ; when of the proper thickness fill your mould, and surround it with ice. Orange Flower Gateau Souffles.* — Take half a pound of fresh orange-flowers picked, and two pounds of fine sugar: put the white of an egg, and a small quantity of sifted sugar into a basin, and beat them to the consistence of cream cheese. Dissolve your sugar, skim, and in a little time add the orange-flowers, and then boil the sugar to petit casse ; take it from the fire, and put to it half a spoonful of the beaten egg; then, with a spatula, stir quickly round the sides of the pan ; the moment the syrup rises, cease till it falls, then stir again till it rises a second time, when it must be poured into moulds or cases (well oiled), and sift sugar over the surface. The juice of half a lemon added to the ingre- dients increases the whiteness of the gateau sovfflce ; if, however, you wish it coloured, put a small quantity of the re- quisite colouring material into the white of egg whilst heating. Orange Floivers {Grillage of) * — Boil half a ppund of sugar to la plume, and then _ mix with it a quarter of a pound of picked orange flowei s, stir them well, and when the flowers have taken a good colour, squeeze over them the juice of a lemon ; then nut a layer of nonpareil onadish,on which spread the grillsgeof orange-flowers, then the nonpareil and so on alternately, until all your ma- 213o H A ( 366 ) ORA terial is used, when put it in tlie stove to dry. Orange Flower Ice.*—Dissolve three pounds of sugar in five pints of water; put a pound of well pickeo orange-flowers into a large bottle or jar, pour the syrup on thein, close the vessel hermetically, and let it stand five hours, then strain it in the sorbetiire, and ice it as usual. (See Ice). Orange Flower Jelly Printannier au Caramel.* —Having clarified three quar- ters of a pound of sugar, boil half of it to caramel; then take it from the fire, and add to it one ounce four drachms of fresh gathered orange-flowers, stir them in with a silver spoon, and when ciuite cold, pour on it two glasses of boiling water; then set the mixture on hot ashes till the caramel sugar is dissolved; as soon as it is so, strain, and mix with it the remainder of the sugar, and an ounce of clarified isinglass; finish your jelly as directed. (See Jelly Printannier). (Grange Flower Marchpane.*—Take six ounces of orange-flower marmalade, two pounds of sweet almonds, and a pound and a half of sugar; blanch and pound the almonds to a very fine paste ; clarify and boil the sugar to petit boulc, then add the almond paste and marma- lade to it; stir them till of the proper consistence ; and when cold, make your marchpane into cakes, whatever size and shape you please. Orange Flower Marmalade.*—Take a pound of orange-flowers, and two pounds of sugar: take the fibres from the flowers, which throw into a saucepan of cold water; when all are done, squeeze over them the juice of one large or two small lemons; set this on the fire, constantly stirring till the flowers give to the touch, then take them out, and lay them on a sieve, pouring cold water on them till they are quite cold. Put them into a mortar, and pound them to a sort of paste, which mix with the sugar boiled to boulc; boil them together a few times, then take it off, and mix with it a pound of apple jelly ; as soon as they are tho- roughly incorporated, the marmalade may be put into pots, which must not, however, be covered till cold. Orange Floiver Pastils.—Pulverise a ■ good pinch of dried orange-flowers ; pound them with gum-dragon, pre- viously dissolved in one glass of plain, and the same quantity of orange-flower water; add a sufficient proportion of powder-sugar, to make the paste of the requisite consistence, which form accord- ing to your taste into cones, lozenges, &c. Orange Flower Pralinis.*—Take a pound of very fresh white orange-flowers, , pick, and throw them into cold water; i clarify, and Iwil two pounds of sugar to | sovMi) then put in the flowers; stir (j them with a spatula, until your sugar |j regains the degree of souffle ; take the ij pan from the fire, and continue stirring Ij till the sugar is separated from the |j flowers, and becomes a powder; set it | in a stove to dry, tlien set the whole on a sieve, that the sugar may run through l| and leave the flowers, which put into li bottles. If preserved in a dry place they |{ will keep far twelve months. ' Orange Flowers to Preserve.— Take i| the orange-flowers just as they begin to ■) open ; put them into boiling water, and :j let them boil very' quickly till they are tender, putting in a little juice of lemon as >1 they boil, to keep them white, then drain li them, and carefully dry them between I two napkins ; put them into clarified su- 4 gar, (a sufficient quantity to cover them^ i j the next day drain the syrup, and boil it l| a little smooth ; when almost cold, pour :t it on the flowers ; the following day drain | them, and lay them eut to diy, dusting i| them a very little. ; Ora^igb Flowers (Ratajia of ).*—Dis- i solve three poundsof sugar ina sufficient j quantity of water, set it on the fire, add ij a pound of well-picked orange-flowers, ii and give the whole one boil, then let it ;| cool, and pour it into a jar, put to it three ii quarts of the best brandy; cover the li vessel very close, and leave it a fort- I night; after which filter, and bottle the u ratafia. Orange Flowers (Syrup of ).*—Clarify 't and boil four pounds of sugar to perle, ;( then add three quarters of a pound of i fresh orange-flowers picked, and boil i| .them once ; then take the pan from the t fire, and let it stmd for two hours, after :t which, replace it on the fire; wlien it 'I has had about a dozen boilings, pour it I through a sieve into another saucepan. ( boil the syrup to lissi, and put it aside ; j when quite cold, bottle it. The flowers f maybe used as follows; put them into 'j powder-sugar, with which rub them well i with your hands, till quite dry, tlien sift I and put them in a stove. Orange Floicer IFater.*—Put into a I still ten pounds ot fresh gathered orange- h flowers, and six quarts of pure river I water; take particular care to close up ! all the apertures of the still perfectly, , and set it on a moderate fire, that the ! ebullition may not be too strong; be | particular in cooling it frequently, or, at I least, whenever the water in the Itoiler i becomes too warm, change it. and put in ’ fresh; much depends on the attention i paid to this part of the operation. From 'i ,1O R G ( 367 ) 0 V E the above quantity, three quarts of orange-flower water may be drawn. Orange Flower {Double) (Voter.* — Draw four quarts of orange-flower water from six quarts distilled as above; put to this water the same quantity of fresh flowers, distil it in the same manner, and it will yield live pints. Orange Peel to Candy.*—Take some Seville orange peel, and let it soak in several waters till it lias lost its bitter- ness, then boil it in a solution of double refined sugar iu water, till it becomes tender and tran.sparent. Orange Peel, to Preserve.*—Cut the oranges in halves, take out the pulp, put the peel in strong salt and spring water, to soak for three days,repeat this three times, then put them on a sieve to dry; take one pound of loaf-sugar, add to it one quart of spring water, boil it, skim it until quite clear; let the peels simmer until they are quite transparent; dry them before the fire; take loaf-sugar, with just sufticient water to dissolve it; whilst the sugar is boiling, put in the peels, stirring con- tinually until all the sugar is candied round them, then put them to dry either before the fire or m an oven, and when perfectly dried, put them by for use. Orange Peel {Ratafia of).— Put the peels of a dozen thick-skinned oranges into a gallon of brandy; dissolve two pounds of sugar in the juice of 'the oranges, add to it the brandy, and hav- ing stirred them together well, close the vessel tightly, and leave it for a month ; then strain it off, and bottle it. ORGEAT.*—Blanch a pound ofsweet, and twenty-four bitter almonds; pound them to an exceedingly fine paste, adding water occasionally-to prevent their oil- ing; mix a gallon of water, two pounds of sugar and orange-flower water, with this paste; beat them together for some time; then strain it two or three times through a jelly-bag, stirring it with a spatula, and serve, it in decanters. Orgeat Paste.— Pound the almonds with a little orange-flower water to a fine paste, and then work up with it an equal weight of powder-sugar. This paste will keep a long while, and by dissolving a small portion of it in water, and straining it, orgeat may be prepared very quickly. An ounce of the paste is sufficient for half a pint of water. Orgeat {Syrup of).*—Take a pound and a half of sweet, and half a pound of bitter almonds, throw them into boiling water, and leave them till the skins can be removed with ease, then throw them into cold water for a minute before you Minch them, after which, they must sain be put into cold water; tlien pound them, a few at a time, in a marble mortar, adding^occasionally some water to prevent their oiling; wheii all are beaten to a very fine paste, dilute this with the greater part of a quart of water, (of which reserve six ounces); put the paste into a strong cloth ; squeeze and wring out all the milk from the almonds, put the latter into the mortar, and pound them again, adding by degrees the remainder of the water, and then squeeze these also in a cloth ; pour the whole of this milk into a matrass, large enough to contain, at least, one-third more liquid, add to it two pounds of lump-sugar, and a pint of orange-flower water; cork the matrass tight, and set it on a bain marie; wheri the sugar is completely dissolved, (which should be accelerated by shaking the matrass occa- sionally), lessen the fire by degrees, and as soon as the vessel is quite cold, put the syrup into bottles. If you should have no matrass, tjou may make your syrup in the following manner : boil the above mentioned quantity of sugar to forte plume, then add the milk of almonds, and as soon as it has boiled up twice, take it from the fire; when cold, flavour it with a pint of orange-flower water. Or this syrup may be made in a still more simple way, as thus: put the milk of almonds into some pounded sugar, without being clarified or boiled pre- viously; when the syrup begins to boil, add about a coffee-cupful of orange-flower water, and after it has boiled up two or three times, take it from the fire; let it get quite cold before you bottle it. Keep it well corked. Orgeat (Voter.—Pound a quarter of a pound of sweet and two or three bitter almonds (blanched) and two ounces of the four cold seeds; add a little water occasionally to prevent the almonds from oiling; put this paste into a bowl, and mix with it a quart of water and two ounces of powder-sugar, in about an hour’s time, strain it into a decanter. A little milk may be added, if required, particularly white. ORTOLANS to Roast.—They should be picked and singed, hut not drawn ; put them on skewers, with bacon round them, tie them to the spit; when they are done, strew them over with grated bread ; or they may he spitted sideways, with a bay-leaf between, and the dish should be garnished all round with fried bread- crumbs. OVEN {Directions for the).—Be very careful to keep your oven clean, and that there are no remains of sugar or fat that may have run over from any thing thatox ox ( 368 ) has bfien baking. Puff-pastes require a moderately hot oven, but not too hot, or it will spoil the shape and turn it over; tart-paste, or short crust, requires a slower oven ; petits-choux, one still slower ; but for raised pies, let it be as hot as for puff-paste at first, and well closed, so that the pies may not fall. Therefore, when you give a dinner where paste is necessary, endeavour to make it in the morning ; heat your oven first for the puff-paste, which must be baked the first; then let the oven go gradually down, and bake your pastes in rotation, as the heat falls. Savoy biscuits require a cool oven, and, by degrees, raise the heat as the biscuits are baking. For souffles or light puddings, have a gentle oven, and contrive so as to have them ready by the time they are wanted, or they will fall. The greatest attention should also be paid in heating the oven for baking cakes, particularly for those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it has become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad bladed knife that is %'ery bright, and plunge it into the centre ; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, fresh fuel must be quickly put in, and the cakes kept hot until the oven is fit to finish the soaking, but this must only be done in a case of great eirergency ; for those who are em- ployed ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occur from negligence. Ox Cheek Boiled, to be eaten Cold.— Bone and thoroughly cleanse an ox- cheek, then let it steep in white-wine for twelve hours ; then season it with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cloves, and mace; roll it up, tie it tiglit with tape, boil it in water, salt, and vinegar, till it is very tender; press it hard, and when quite cold, cut it into slices, and serve with oil and vinegar. Ox Cheek Pie.—Bone them, and soak t lem thoroughly in water, boil them ten- der, cleanse them very well, take out the balls of the eyes, season with pepper, Balt, and nutmeg, then mince some beef and some beef suet; lay this at the bot- tom of the dish, then put in the cheeks with a few whole cloves, close up the pie or pasty, and put it in the oven to bake. For paste, as follow:>half a peck of flour, the whites of half a dozen eggs, two pounds and a half of butler, work the butter and eggs up dry in the flour, then add a little water to make it a stiff'ymste, and work up all cold. Ox Cheek Potted.—Take an ox cheek and thoroughly wash it, then bone it, rub it over with the same ingredients that are used for potted beef, and set it in tlie oven until it is lender ; then takeout the fat, the skin, and the palate ; add to a pound of the meat two ounces of the fat which swims on the top of the liquor, beat it together in a mortar, and finish the same as for potted beef. Ox Cheek Stewed.—Take half a head, let it soak for three hours,and thuioughly clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Place the bones on the top, pour on two or three quarts of water, and cover the pan very closely with brown paper ; let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven, or let it simmer by the side of the fire. When tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get quite cold. Take off the cake of fat, and warm the head in pieces in the soup ; put in what vegetable you think best. Ox Cheek Stewed.—Soak and well wash the day before it is to be eaten, a fine ox cheek, put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water, and after it has boiled up once and been well skimmed, let it simmer ; in two hours, add plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice; skim it often ; when the meat is tender, take it out; let the soup get cold, take off the fat, and serve the soup either separate or with the meat. It ought to be of a nice brown colour, which may be done by burnt sugar, or by fry- ing some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering tliem with it. This last method e.xtremely improve-s the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not liked in the soup, they can be taken out, and a small roll'toasted,or fried bread,may be added. Celery is a very great improvement, and should alwaj's be served. When celery cannot be procured, theseed isa most ex- cellent substitute, lx)iled in, and strained off'. Ox Cheek Steiced.—V\i\, it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it. let it simmer for two hours; peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some wp- per, salt, mace, cloves, and whole pepper, lied up in a bit of muslin ; a few capers, turnips cut into very small jieces, and carrots sliced, half a pint of )eef gravy, a little white wine, and a( 369 ) OX ox ! ) I I t I i I I. I > ( B i fl I il I S i I ' bundi of sweet herbs; let it stew very gently till it is tender, then take out tlie spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a bit of butter rolled in flour. ■ Ox Feet Fried—BoW them till they are tender, skin and split them, take out the bones and fry them in butter; when they have fried for a short time, put in some mint and parsley, shred small, a little salt, some beaten pepper; beat up the yolks of eggs with some mutton gravy and vinegar, the juice of either a lemon or an orange, and a little nutmeg; lay your fry in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. You may add a little shred onion, if you think proper. Ox Palates.*—The palate should be soaked for several hours, and then scald- ed until the second skin can be easily removed on scraping with a knife, when it should be put into cold water, and thoroughly cleaned and trimmed, that is, all the black parts cleared away : then put it in a blanc for four or five hours, or more, if necessary; if, on pressing, the meat is flexible, it is sufficiently done, and may be taken out, and is fit to be dressed in any way you think proper, and served with any sauce. Ox Palates Atreaux.*—Cut some ox- palates (previously cooked in a blanc) into pieces an inch and a quarter square, put tnera into a sauce A I’atelet, fry them lightly in it, and let them cool; cut a cold belled calf’s udder into thin slices, the size of the palates; put these alternately, and with great regularity, on skewers, take care that all four sides are even ; bread them well in the usual manner ; place them on a gridiron over a moderate lire, and broil three sides, colour the fourth with the salamander. Serve them with a clear gravy espagnote, Italiemie, or without any sauce if you like, it better. • Ox Palates A la Bechamel.*—Prepare the palates in a. blanc, and then cut them into small square pieces, put them into a bechamel, in which fry them lightly ; season with a little pepper, and serve them very hot. Ox Palates in Blanquette.*—Make an allemunde, and when nearly done, put in the palates previously blanched, and cut into small square pieces; just before serving, add a liaison of yolks of eggs with the juice of a lemon. Garnish the dish with croutons. Ox Palates Broiled.* — Cut some blanched ox-palates_ in slices, which soak for some hours in a marinade com- posed of oil, with salt, pepper, parsley, scallions, onions sliced, and lemon-juice: then take them out, bread and broil them. Serve with %e.acepiquante. Ox Palates, Coltops o/.—Take two braised ox-palates, cut them into pieces the size of a half-crown, have ready twice as many pieces of puff-paste cut rather larger than the palates ; between every two put a slice of the palates, and a little forcemeat on each side of it; press the edges of the paste together, and fry the collops to a nice colour. 0.x Palates, Coquilles of.*—Cut ox- palates into dice, cut also into dice an equal number of mushrooms, put them into a well-reduced allemande, with a little butter, parsley, and lemon-juice ; put this preparation into shells: cover it with bread-crumbs and grated I’arme- san-cheesp, with a little melted butter; colour them in an oven, or with a sala- mander. Ox Palates en Crepinettes.*—When the palates are taken out of the blanc, put them under a heavy weight; as soon as they are cold, trim them to about the length of your finger ; cut a d; zen onions into dice, blanch and cool, then put them into a blanc with a piece of butter, salt, pepper, nutmeg, garlic, and bay-leaf; when they are sufficiently done, add two ladiesful of veloute, and reduce your onions to a paste, thicken it with the yolks of four eggs, let it cool, and then cover the palates completely ; wrap each in a pig’s caul, lay them in a deep dish, and put them into an oven to colour ; serve them with a clear gravy and to- mata-sauce. Ox Palates, Cromesquis of.* — Cut four ox-palates, a throat sweetbread, twelve good-sized mushrooms, and four truffles, into dice; put the two latter into some allemande, reduce them to a aste, then add the palates and sweet- read, a piece of butter the size of a wal- nut, and a little nutmeg, mix these to- gether, and when cold, make them into parcels the size of the little finger ; cut a [ready-dressed calf’s udder into very thin slices, all the same size, wrap each parcel in a slice of the udder, dip them m batter, and fry the cromesquis; serve with fried parsley. Ox Palates, Croquettes of.*—Having boiled the palates in a blanc as usual, cut them into dice; have ready some reduced veloute, to which add two or three yolks of eggs, and a small piece of butter, put the minced palates into tliis, stirring them well together; then with a spoon, lay about thirty little heaps of this on a tin, and when cool, form them with your hands of any shape you please; roll them in bread-crumbs, then dip them in eggs (well beaten and seasoned with pepper and salt), roll them again in breatl-crutnbs, and fry them in a very hot pan ; serve them on fried parsley.ox ( 370 ) ox Ox Palates, Croquettes of.*—Take two or three ox palates, previously blanched, cut each in half, lengthwise, and simmer them over a small fire in some stock, with a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, two cloves, basil,salt,and pepper; in halt an hour take them out, drain and let them cool, then lay on every piece a thin layer of meat/arce, roll up your palates, and dip each in a batter made of flour, diluted with a spoonful of olive oil, half a pint of white wine, and a little salt, fry them a nice colour, and garnish with fried parsley. r Ox Palates au Gratin.* — Trim the palates carefully,and blanch them ; when cold cut them into slices, and give them a few turns in a little butter, and two onions, then add a little ham (also cut in slices), some gravy, stock, cullis, and d bouquet garni; let these boil an hour, then skim it, put in a little mustard, and serve it on a gratin as follows. Make a mince of fowl livers, to which add grated bacon, parsley, scallions, mushrooms, (all shred small) salt, and pepper, mix these together with the yolks of two eggs, and spread it over a dish, which place on hot ashes ; as soon as the gratin IS formed, drain off the fat, and put the palates on the gratin and serve. Ox Palates au Gratin.*—Cut your palates (prepared as usual) into long thin slices, about two inches wide; spread over them some farce cuite (see that ar- ticle) ; cut a calf’s udder into slices the size of the others, lay these on the/arce with a little of the same spread on them also ; roll them up, and lay them round a dish in which you have placed a layer of the farce; when all are done, cover them with bacon, and put them in the oven for about half an hour ; then drain away the fat, pour an Italienne into the centre and serve. Ox Palates, with Herbs.* — Cut the palates into farthings, do the same with an equal quantity of call's udder, have some herbs d papillotes (see that article), mix them with a small quantity of farce, and quenelle, unite them with the yolks of two eggs ; lay a little of this on a sil- ver or other dish that will bear the fire, then place the palate, and udder, alter- nately, all- over the farce, of which put another layer in the form of a pyramid ; cover the whole with raspings and a little melted butter; pour a glass of white wine over it, and set it on the fire ; colour the top with the salamander. Serve either with reduced Italienne or espag- nole. Ox Palates d 1'Italienne.*—Cut the palates into farthings, which put into a B'.cwpan with a glass of white wine, mushrooms, parsley, all shred small, re- , duce the whole to a glaze, then add a , spoonful of espag7iole, and a little glaze. Serve very hot with croutons. i Ox Palates, d la Marielte.— Having i well scalded the palates, peel, and cut ;| each in two, lengthwise ; put a thin slice ij of ham, and another of bacon, between every two pieces, tie them together, and put them into some broth with parsley, and scallions, two cloves, salt, and pep- per ; when done, serve with consomme, and a little lemon-juice. Ox Palates d la Marmotte.* — Take two or three scalded ox-palates, cut them, and some pickled pork into slices ; boil the latter till half done ; add the palates, wifh parsley, shaints, and a clove ' of garlic, all chopped small, some whole pepper, and a glass of white wine ; boil i the whole together; when nearly done, , put the meat into a dish for table, strew • plenty of bread-crumbs over, colour it in the oven, and serve it with any thick sauce. Ox Palates, in Moulds.—Take a num- ber of small timbale moulds, in each of which put some veal caul ; braise and i cut the palates into thin slices, the size of the moulds ; make a good forcemeat i with the trimmings of the palates and 1 some fowl ; put layers of this and the slices of palates, alternately, till each i mould is nearly full, cover each with i chopped truffles, over which lay another : slice of palate; wrap the caul over, and i put them in an oven. When done, take : them out, carefully wipe off the fat, and i serve them with any sauce you think proper. Ox Palates, Paupiattes.* — Prepare some ox palates, and calFs udder, as for grat,n, only cutting the slices rather wider : when rolled up as therein direct- ed, rut) them all over with a sauce d ate- let; then bread and egg them like cro- quettes, fry them of a nice colour, and : serve with fried parsley. Ox Palates, Pickled.—Wash the pa- i lates clean, with salt and water; then let d them boil in salt and water ; skim them ) very clean; let them simmer four or five i hours, and season them with pepper, cloves, and mace; when they are tender, cut them into pieces, and let them cool. Make a pickle with equal quantities of white wine and vinegar; boil U, and put in the spice that was boiled with the pa- lates ; add six or seven bay-leaves, and some fresh spice; when both are cold, put them together, and keep them for * -r,. Ox Palates d la Poulette.*—Tht pa- lates being blanched, give them a few turns in some butler, with s.veet herbs,ox (371) 0 X F shred small; then put them into a sauce- !i pan, with n small quantity of flour, a Ij spoonful of velonte, salt, and pepper ; let f| these boil till pretty well reduced ; just ll before it is served, add two or three yolks li of eggs, and some cream, a little verjuice, ll or vinegar. Ox / alates a la Proven<;ale.—Brnwe, II and cut some ox palates into small pie- ces ; put them into a stewpan, with some butter, two spoonsful of oil, two chopped ll sbalots, a clove of garlic, five or six tar- ragon leaves, mushrooms, parsley, salt, whole pepper, and grated nutmeg; when ! these have simmered for a quarter of an ll hour, add a glass of white wine, the same of eiillis, and consoninii, then give the whole one boil, take oS’the fat, and serve with a little lemon-juice. Ox Palates, Roasted.—Boil them until I, they are tender, blanch them, cut them into slices, about two or three inches in '! length; take some pigeons, and very ll small chickens, draw, truss, and fill them 11 with forcemeat; let halfof them be nearly larded, spit them on a bird-spit in the j following mannera bird, a palate, a sage-leaf, and a bit of bacon ; have ready two sweetbreads, cut in pieces, some artichoke bottoms, cut in pieces, some oysters, and some blanched cockscombs, all fried ; rub the dish with some shalois, I lay the chickens, the pigeons, and what I is roasted in the middle, and arrange the 1 other things round them. Then make a I sauce in the following manner: a quarter < of a pint of red wine, a pint of gravy, the i liquor of the oysters, an anchovy, a little I lemon-juice, and a bit of butter rolled in [ flour ; let it boil till it has obtained the ! consistence of cream ; then pour it over the palates in the dish. Ox Palates, Stented. — Thoroughly 1 clean four or five palates, put them into ( a pan with sufficient water to cover them; I tie them down, and bake, or boil them ; I when tender, peel them, cut them into 1 pieces, flour them, put them into some I good gravy, with an onion, a few pounded ; cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, and some ketchup, let them stew for half an hour, d take out the lemon-peel and onion ; add a some morels, forcemeat balls, and lemon- i juice. Garnish with sliced lemon. Ox Palates, Timbale of. — Having J blanched the palates as usual, cut them i into lozenges, have a timbale ready, at i the bottom of which put a layer of godi- i veau, or other farce, then a layer of the 1 palates, another of the farce, and on tliat J one of truffles cut in thin slices, and 1 proceed in this manner till the timbale is I quite full; cover the whole with rasp- ! ings, and pour a little beef gravy, or rich (I broth into it, and bake it to a nice colour. I Ox Tail, with Cabbages-.—Scald and boil an ox tail, cut it into pieces, and put it into some broth, with a bunch of parsley, shalots, a bay-leaf, and three cloves; in an hour’s time add a savoy (previously_ scalded), a pound of pickled pork, cut in pieces, salt, and pepper, when done, take it out, drain off' all the fat, and put the whole' into a tureen, together, with cullis, or broth, to make it more or less liquid according to your pleasure. Ox Tail braised en Hochepot.*—Cut an ox tail in pieces at the joints, soak it for two hours, then scald it for half an hour; put it into cold water, drain and trim it. Lay slices oflbacon, and pieces of veal or beef in a stewpan, put in the tail, cover it with bacon, add three or four carrots, four or five onions (one stuck with three cloves) a little thyme, two bay-leaves, and some stock ; set the pan on a brisk fire to boil, after which lessen it, and let it stew gently for two hours ; when done, lay the ox tail in a dish, pour over some carrots, cut in pieces, and done up in a little veUiute, and garnish the edge of the dish with lettuces, braised and glazed. Ox tails, when braised as above, may be served with various articles, instead of the lettuces, according to taste. Ox Tail, d la Ste. Mewe/towfrf.*—Pre- pare and braise an ox tail as for Hoche- pot; when done, season them with salt and pepper ; soak them in melted but- ter, bread them twice, and colour them in the oven or on the gridiron. Ox Tail Pie (Hot).*—Braise two or three ox tails; when about three parts done, take them out and cut them in pieces; prepare your pie, at the bottom of which, lay a slice or two of ham; then put in the tails, cover them with bacon and thin slices of bacon, finish the pie and bake it; when done, take out the bacon, skim off the fat, and pour into the pie a rich sauce of any kind. Ox Rtimp This soup made with two or three rumps of beef will be much stronger than when made with a mucli larger quantity of meat without the rumps. It is made in the same manner as gravy-soup, and give it what flavour or thickening you think proper. OXFORD John.*—Cut a stale leg of mutton into as thin collops as you can, cut out all the fat sinews, season them with salt, pepper, and mace ; strew amongst them a little shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots; put a good lump of butter into a stewpan; as soon as it is hot, put in all your collops, keep stirring them with a wooden spoon till they are three parts done; then add half a pint IO YS o y s ( 372 or gravy, a little piece of lemon, thicken it with flour and butter rolled up, let them simmer four or five minutee, and they will he quick enough; if you let them boil, or liave them ready before wanted, they will be hard ; strew fried pieces of bread over and round them ; serve hot. OYSTERS, to Choose.—The goodness of oysters consists in their being healthy and properly relished : there are several kinds; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Mil- ford are considered by far the best. Tbe native Milton are reckoned particularly fine, being the whitest and the fattest; but others may be said to possess b)th these qualities in a certain degiee by proper feeding. When they are alive and vigorous, the shell will close fast upon the knife. They should be eaten as they are opened, the flavour becomes poor otherwise. The rock oyster is the largest, but ithas usually a coarse flavour when eaten raw. Oy&t'ers, Attelets o/.—Fry some sweet herbs in a little butter, wilh a little flour, and oyster-liquor; season this sauce well, reduce and thicken it with the yolks of il'.ree eggs. Have ready some oysters blanched in their own liquor; put them on skewers, and the above sauce being cold, spread it completely over the skewered oysters; roll them in bread-crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them of a nice colour. OysTEUS fn Batter.—Make a batter with the yolk of one egg (or more, ac- cording to the quantity of oysters you intend to fry), a little nutmeg, some beaten mace, a little flour, and a little salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in bog’s-lard to a nice light brown. If agreeable, a litile parsley, shred very fine, may be put into the batter. Oysters uu Blotid.*—Put a few mo- rels and a little parsley into some melted butter; set them on the fire, and moisten with a glass of white wine, and the same of veal gravy nr good consomme., do these together, and when of a tolerable con- sistence, add some oysters, previously blanched in their own liquor; let the whole simmer for some time, and then serve. Oysters, Boiled.—Let the shells be. very nicely cleaned first, and serve in them ; boiled oysters should be eaten with cold butter. ■ Oysters, Broiled.—Take two dozen oysters from their shells, put them, with their own liquor, into a saucepan, just blanch them, and then take away the water, put a piece of butler, a pinch of parsley, the same of sLalols (both shred). toss them in this, but do not let them boil; then replace them in theirsliel's, with a little lemon-juice and raspings, set them on the gridiron, and when they broil, take them ofl'and serve. Oysters en Cojuitles.*—Having taken the oysters from their shells, put them with their own liquor into a stewpaii; let them brown but not boil. Prepare some sbalots, parsley, mushrooms, grated bacon, oil, bntier, and spices, as directed for Herbs d Papillotes ; mix the oysters with these, and then put them altogether into shells, and cover them with bread- crurnbs ; set the shells on a gridiron over a brisk fire ; colour the top by means of a salamander. Oysters « la Dauhe.—Make a season- ing of parsley, basil, and chives, cut very small; open the oysters, loosen them, but do not take them out of the bottom shell; put a little of the seasoning to each oyster, wilh pepper, and a little wfiite wine; put on the top shell, and put these on the gridiron; lay from time to time a red hot shovel over them ; and when they are done, take ofT the upper shell, and serve them to table in Iheunderone. Oysters d f’iJatr.*—Put a glass of consomme, and half a glass of the oyster liquor into a dish, and keep them kot; beard as many oysters as you may re- quire ; blanch and toss them up in some l.-ird, with a few sweet herbs; let them simmer till done, then put them into the dish with the conso7n7ne,md serve them. 0\'&TEiis and Eggs.*—Put intoa stew- pan half a pound of fresh butter, some par- sley, scallions, and morels, shred small, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; when the butter is melted, put in about four dozen oysters with theirliquor,make them quite hot, and add to them five or six hard eggs cut in slices, let the whole simmer for a quarter of an hour, and fill the oyster-shells with this; cover each trith raspings, and colour them in the oven or with a salamander. Oysters d 1’Espag/iole.—Put a few chopped oysters, some parsley, a clove of garlic, a little pepper, and some btitter on a dish, set it on the fire to form a grntin ; then lay oysters (blanched in their own liquor) on this, with a saticc composed of culli-', mushrooms, and capers chopped small, a bit of butter and a potinded anchovy; cover the whole with bread-crumbs ; l;eep the dish over the fire, with fire on the top, till done. Serve with Spanish sauce. Oysters, to Feed. — Put them into water, and ihorouKhly wa'h them with a b'rch besom until they arc perfectly clean ; then lay the bottom shell dou n- wards into a pan, sprinkle them with0 Y S ( 373 ) 0 Y S 1 flour or oatmeal, and cover with water. J Continue the same daily, and they will 3 fatten. The water should be tolerably 3 salt. ' Oysters Forced in Shells.—Scald the ) oysters in their own liquor, chop them ; t add parsleyand anchovychopped,crumbs J of bread, lemon-peel grated, pepper, 3 salt, nutmeg, a little cream, yolk of egg, j a piece of butter, and some oysters, i whole; fill some scollop-shells, strew I over a few bread-crumbs; brown them i in a Dutch oven. ^ Oysters, Fricassee of.*—Blanch the II oysters in their own liquor, drain and I fricassee them in some rich broth in the r same manner as chickens: thicken the i sauce with yolks of eggs. Oysters, Fried—Beat up the yolks of eggs with flour, salt, and nutmeg, dip your oysters in this, and fry them a light brown; they are a nice garnish for cod, and calf's head gashed, &c. Oyster Fritters.*—Having blanched ; the oysters in their own liquor, soak : them for some time in vinegar and water : with salt, sliced parsley, and small white I onions, sliced, after which, dry them f well, dip each in batter, and fry them. Oysters au gras.*—Scald some oy- sters in boiling water; then drain and put them into some good stock, and their own liquor; set them on the fire, and when done, put them in silver moulds, cover them with a farce composed of morels and fat livers, minced very small, and mixed with sweet herbs; strew rasp- ings over, and colour them with the sala- mander. Oyster Ketchup.—Take some fine fresh Milton oysters ; wash them in their own liquor, then pound them in a mar- ble mortar, and to a pint of oysters add a pint of sherry; boil them up, and add an ounce of salt, two drachms of pounded mace, and one drachm of Cay- enne; let it just boil up again, skim it, and rub it through a sieve ; when cold, put it into bottles and cork it well, and seal it down. It is best to pound the I spices and salt in the mortar with the I oysters. Oyster Loaves.—Open your oysters, I and save the liquor; wash them in it, f then strain it through a sieve, and put a B small quantity of it into a tosser, with a bit of butter and flour, some white pep- I per, a very little nutmeg, and a little ( cream. Stew them, then cut them into 1 dice; put them into rolls sold for this I purpose. ^ Oysters, Mwcet/.*—Take half a hun- I drcd oysters, put them into warm water, I and when they are just ready to boil, *1 Bkift them into cold; then drain them, I and take the tender part only, and inincc it fine. You will increase the size qt your dish, and give a better flavour, if you mix the flesh of a carp witii the oysters. Next put a piece of butter, shred parsley, green onions, and mush- rooms into a stewpan, and shake the whole over the fire ; add some flour, and moisten with half a pint of white wine and the same quantity of soup maigre ; then put in the minced oysters, and let them stew till the sauce is consumed; season according to taste, and when ready to serve, add the yolks of three eggs beaten up with some cream. Oysters, au Naturel.*—Oam six do- zen oysters, take two dozen of the largest, lay them on a dish in their shells, into each of which put two small oysters with their liquor ; sprinkle them with pepper and shred parsley, and serve them. Oyster Patties. — Take some small patty-pans and line them with a fine puff paste, cover them with paste, putting a bit of bread into each; and against they are baked, have ready the following to ptitin the place of the bread:—Take some oysters, beard them and cut the other parts into small pieces, put them into a tosser with a very little grated nut- meg, the smallest quantity of white pep- per and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut as small as possible, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor; simmer it a few minutes before putting it into the patties. Oyster Patties. — Take six large oysters, and a fine silver eel, pick the iheat from the bones, beat it in a marble mortar, with some pepper, salt, cloves, and just sufficient mountain wine to soften it; have ready some good pufi- paste, take one of the oysters, wrap it in this forcemeat, and put to it a bit of but- ter ; close the patties and bake them. Oyster Patties, or Small Pie.—Open your oysters, and as you open them, separate them from the liquor, which muat be strained; beard the oysters, and then parboil them; parboil some sweet- breads, cut them in slices, lay them and the oysters in layers, and season very modera'ely with salt, pepper, and mace ; then add half a teacupfulof liquor, and half a teacupful of gravy; bake in a slow oven, and before you serve, put a teacupful of cream, a little more oyster-liquor, and a cupful of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. If for patties, the oysters must be cut into small dice, gently stewed and seasoned as above, and put into the paste when ready for table. _ Oyster Petits Pales.*—Prepare your timbales in the usual way ; boil tiie oysters in their own liquor, when done, be.aid,374 O YS OYS and if large, cut them in half; put them into a bechamel, or if you have none, put a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a teaspoonfiil of flour, and a little whole pepper, into a saucepan ; stir them to- gether over the fire, then add the liquor, still stirring, and in a little while, put in the oysters ; thicken with the wnites of two or three eggs, make it quite hot, but do not let it boil; put this preparation into the pefffijoafes, and sei ve them. Oyster Patlies d la Franfaise.*—Stew your oysters in their own liquor, beard, and cut them into dice, also cut some mushrooms into dice, and fry them in a little butter and flour; add some of the. oyster liquor, one or two spoonsful of consomme, a ladleful of cream ; when re- duced, add a small quantity of butter, season with salt and cayenne pepper ; throw in the oysters, have the patties ready, and in a minute or two fill them with the above. Oysters Pickled. — Procure some of the largest sort of oysters, and wash four dozen in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, add to it a dessert- spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, three tablespoonsful of white wine, and four of vinegar, and if the liquor is not very salt, you may putone tablespoonful of salt; simmer the oysters for a few minutes in the liquor, then put them into small jars, and boil up the pickle, skim it, and when cold, pour it over the oysters ; keep them closely covered. Oyster Saicce.—In opening the oys- ters save the liquor, and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel; in the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off, strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with the oysters just diained from the cold water, with a sufficient quantity of but- ter, mixed with as much milk as will make enough sauce; but first rub a little flour with it; set them over the fire, aiid stir all the time, and when the butter has boiled a few times, lake them off, and keep the saucepan close to the fire, but not upon it; for if done too much, the oysters will become hard; add a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve. A little is a great improvement. Oyster Sance for Entrees. — Blanch the oysters in their own liquor; then make.a white roux, to which add n few small onions, mushrooms, parsley, and scallions; moisten with some of the oys- ter liquor, and a ladleful or two of con- somme, set it on a brisk fire, and when reduced, add a pint of cream, season it; let the sauce be tolerably thick, strain it through a silk sieve, put in the oysters, and use it with those articles where it is required, such as fowl, turkey, chicken, &c. If served with fieh, essence of an- chovies must be added to the above in- gredients. Oyster Saicce /or Beef Steaks.— Blanch a pint of oysters, and preserve their liquor ; then wash and beard them, and put their liquor into a stewpan, with India soy and ketchup, a small quantity of each, a gill of cullis, a quarter of a pound of fresh butter; set them over a fire, and whep they nearly boil, thicken with flour and water ; season according to taste, with a little cayenne-pepper, salt, and lemon-juice ; strain it to the oysters, and stew them gently five minutes. Oyster Sausages.—Take the lean of the inside of a loin of mutton clean from the skin and strings, the. same of the kid- ney-suet, and double the quantity of oysters, bearded, and wiped dry; chop all together very small, and season them with pepper and salt; thqn roll them up in flour, the size of sausages, and fry them in butter. Oysters Scalloped. — Put them into scallop-shells, strew over them bre.ad- crumbs, with a little hit of butter; then put in more oysters, bread crumbs, and a bit more butter at the top; set them in a Dutch oven, and let them do of a nice brown. Oysters 07i Skewers.— Pot a bit of butter into a stewpan, then put in some large oysters, and some mushrooms, with pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, and sweet herbs chopped, and a shake of flour ; stir these about for half a minute, then put the oysters on silver skewers, with a mushroom between each; roil them in crumbs of bread ; broil them; put a little good gravy into the stew- pan, thicken it, and add a little lemon- juice; serve the oysteis on the skewers in a dish with the sauce. Oyster Sowp.—Take some fish stock, according to the quantity of .«oup you intend making; then take two quaits of oysters, bearcl them, and beat the hard part of them in a mortar, with the yolks of ten hard eggs, and add this to the stock; simmer it all for half an hour, then strain it of!', and put the rest of the oysters into the soup ; simmer for five minutes; have ready the yolks of six raw eggs, well beaten, and add them to the soup ; stir it all well one way, on the side of the fire, till it is thick and smooth, taking care not to let it boil; seiye all together. , • u Oyster Mouth Soup. — Make a rich mutton Iwoth. with two large onions, three blades of mace, and black pepper : strain it, and iiour it on a bundled and fifty oy'sters, previously bearded, and a2 K 2 ; PAN ,1 ! bit of butter, rolled in flour; let it sim- j nier gently a quarter of an hour, and I then serve. I Oysters Stewed.—Open, and take the liquor from tiiem, then cleanse them from the grit; strain tlie liquor, and add the oysters with a bit of mace and lemon- ; peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer )them very gently, add a little cream, and a hit of butter mixed with flour; serve il with toasted sippets round the dish. Oysters en Surtout.—Scald the oysters il in their own liquor, drain, and give them ;i a few turns over the fire, in a little but- : ter,, shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and ! a few yolks of eggs; then chop up the ! oysters, and mix them with bread-crumbs soaked in cream, shalots, mushrooms, i| parsley 0‘H shred small) yolks of eggs, ] pepper and salt; fill some scallops with this/arce, cover them with bread-crumbs ‘ and grated Parmesan cheese, put them ;i into the oven for a quarter of an hour. ' Oyster Toast,*—Take one dozen of I large oysters, and two anchovies, and i chop them together, put in a bit of but- ter, and some oyster liquor, and let them stew gently till the butter is melted; i then cut some slices from a roll, and fry I them in butter of a nice brown, but not 1 hard; lay the oyster on the fried bread, and serve. P, PAN.\D A.*—Boil some pieces of stale I bread in a sufficient quantity of cold >1 water to cover them, with a little cinna- II mon, lemon-peel, and carraways ; when 1 the bread is quite soft, press out all the H water, and beat up the bread with a small I piece of butter, a little milk, and sugru- I to the taste; a little spice may be •I added. Panada.—Set a little water on the fire I with a glass of white wine, some sugar, u a very little nutmeg, and lemon-peel; i meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread : t the moment the water boils up, put in > the bread-crumbs_ (without taking it off I the fire), and let it boil as fast us it can. When of a proper consistence, that is, ' when just of a sufficient thickness to ') drink, take it off the fire. Panada for Farces, 8fc.* —Put the ' crumb of a French loaf into a saucepan, with a little water, two ounces of butter, ' salt and pepper; set it on the fire, and let it simmer for an hour ; then add two 1 or three eggs, which stir in whilst on the I fire, taking care that it does not boil; I serve it hot. . _ PANCAKES.*—Make a good hatter I in the usual way with eggs, milk and I flour; pour this into a pan, so that it lays ( 375 ) PAN very thin ; let your lard, or whatever else you fry them in, be quite hot. When one side is done, toss it up lightly to turn it. Serve with lemon or Seville orange- juice, and sugar. PANCAKES d la FVanpa/se. — Put nearly a quarter of a pound of butter into a basin or stewpan, with a table spoonful of pounded ratafia, a thin rind of a lemon, and two ounces of sugar pound- ed ; then mix in one at a time, three whole eggs, and the yolks of three; when thoroughly mixed, put in a little milk, half a pint of cream, with a little orange- flower water, beat your batter well, and let it be just the thickness of good creami when you fry the pancakes, make them very thin, use good clarified butter, which put into your pan, and pour it oil'again, taking care that none remains at the bot- tom of the pan, as it would make the pancakes greasy ; when you have finished frying, leave a table-spoonful of the bat- ter in the stewpan, to which add a little pounded ratafia, sugar, orange-flower, and the yolk of an egg, whicli mix up with the cream ; set it on the fire, and when it boils, put it in a boat, for sauce to the pancakes. Pancakes d V Italienne.—Make your pancakes the same as pancakes d la Fi-an- Quise, and when fried, lay them open on a clean dresser, spread them over with an Italienne cream, roll them up, and lay them in order on your dish ; be parti- cular to put the brown side outwards. PANNEQUETS Glaces.*—Put into a pan, two ounces of sifted flour, four of pow- der-sugar, the same of bitter macaroons, and a spoonful of dried orange-flowers; break up all these articles, and mix with them the yolks of ten eggs, four large glasses of double cream, and a pinch of salt. Wash the bottom of a frying-pan lightly with some warm clarified butter, then put in it a spoonful of the above pre- paration, spread it over the pan, to make the paste as thin as possible: when thepan- nequet becomes lightly coloured, turn it over carefully, and do the other side ; then put it on a tin-plate, spread a little apri- cot marmalade over, and having strewed crushed macaroons on that, roll up the pannequet till about an inch in diameter; in the meantime put a second spoonful of your preparation into the pan, and pro- ceed in the above manner, garnishing one pannequet whilst another is cooking; taking care, however, to set the pan over a gentle fire. VVhen all are done, cut the panncqucts three inches in length, glaze, and dish them en couronne. Pannequets d la Royale.*—Prepare yow jmnnequets the same as pannequets g'/aces, filling them with chocolate creme( 376 ) PAR PAR piUitisiere, instead of apricot marmalade. Alnke the last pannequct much larger than the rest, and do not roll it, but when the others are dished en couronnc^ place the reserved pannequet over them (cut- ting out the middle); being very thin, it takes the form of the couronne, and wash Its _ surface with the white of an egg, whipped firm, and mixed with two spoons- ful of poivder-sngar, tlien strew over some crushed sugar, put it into a gentle oven, and make of a nice colour. Any other cream patissiere is equally good. The pannequets may also be made thus: when taken out of tlie pan, place them on a layer of paste, about six inches in diameter, put on each pannequet some apricot marmalade, with crushed maca- roons strewed over, and when all are Cione, meringuez the upper one. Or, iis follows; put six of thesep«wne- queis one on anotlier, then with a paste- cutter of two inches and a half diameter, cut them out, dip them in beaten eggs, and afterwards in bread-crumbs ; repeat this operation, and then having fried them of a nice colour, glaze, and serve them. PARFAIT —Take four very fine fresh cedrats, pare them very thin, and infuse them with half an ounce of fine cinnamon, and four ounces of cori- ander, in three gallons of strong hrandy, and a quart of water, for a week or ten days, when distil it in the bain maj'ie ; this quantity of brandy, if good, will yield two gallons and half a pint of spirit. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of river water, colour it with cochineal, then add it to the spirit, filter, and bottle it. PaufjUT Amour, Frontage Bavarois.* —Pare the rinds of two lemons, and a small cedrat as thin as possible, infuse them with six bruised cloves, and half a pound of powder-sugar in two glasses of boiling milk; in an hour’s time strain it off, and add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a little infusion of cochineal, to make the frontage of a rose-colour; set it, as usual, on ice, mix the cream with it as soon as it begins to thicken, and finish as directed. (See. Frontage Bavarois.) Paufait Amour, Transparent Jelly of.* —Pare the rind of two lemons, and a ce- drat, as thin as possible, and infuse it with half a dozen cloves (bruised) iu a boiling syrup, made with twelve drachms of sugar; add a little cochineal to make it of a delicate rose-colour. When cold, • mix with the infusion half a glass of kirschenwasser, filter, and having put the ounce of isinglass to it, finish as di- rected. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Vxv.vXYt Amour Souffle, Frartqais of.* || —Rub upon a pound of lump sugar, the || zestes of two lemons, and two large ce- i| drats, scraping off the surface as it be- q comes coloured ; infuse this sugar in nine u glasses of boiling hot milk, with the ad- dition of a dozen cloves, for half an hour; ; j strain the infusion through a napkin, mix it with the usual ingredients, and }j finish as directed. (See Souffle Fran- if qais.) PARSLEY Fried.—Pick some parsley, , (but not very fine), wash it well, and put I it on a sieve to drain ; after the fish, cro- quettes, &c. are fried, while the fat is i very hot, put in the parsley ; stir it about with a cullender-spoon for a minute; then spread it out on a sheet of paper; this is i generally used for croquettes, or fried 1 fish. Parsley, Green, Extract of. —Take 1 about two handsful of fresh double pars- ley, wash and pick it, then put it in a i mortar, and having pounded it, until you can obtain no more moisture, press the juice through a silk sieve into a stewpan, set it in a bain marie to keep it hot with- i out boiling. When you find it poached, place it on a tammy to drain. This green i is used for entrees and sauces, as it not i only colours them, but imparts an agree- able flavour. Parsley Pie. — Season a fowl, or a i few bones of the scrag of veal, lay it I iu a dish ; scald a cullenderful of picked I parsley in milk; season it, and add it 1 to the meat or fowl, with a teacupful of i any sort of good broth, or meat gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter i of a pint of cream, scalded, with a bit of i butter the size of a walnut, and a little of I flour. Shake it round, to mix with the ! gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. Parsley Sauce.—Take a handful of ‘ parsley, and having washed and picked, pound it well; put it into a stewpan, with ! some good Cullis, set it on the fire, and 1 let it simmer a quarter of an hour, then i strain it; add a bit of butter rolled in i| flour, a liaison, and a little lemon-juice. ' Parsley Sauce, when Parsley leaves cannot be obtained.—Tie a little parsley i| seed up in a bit of muslin, and boil it in water for ten minutes. Make use of this '• water in melting the butter, and throw '' into it a little boiled spin.ich minced, to have the appearance of parsley. PARSNIPS Boiled.—Cel them boil in plenty of water, with salt, till tender, then serve them on a dish by them- selves ; or, when boiled, cut them tnPAR (377) PAR I slices, and toss them up in a good bit of I butter ; they are generally eaten with , salt fish. Pars.vip fFine.*—To every fourpounds of parsnips, cleaned and quartered, put one gallon of water ; boil them till quite tender; drain them through a sieve, but do not bruise them, as no remedy would clear them afterwards ; pour the liquor into a tub, and to each gallon add three pounds of loaf-sugar, and half an ounce of 1 crude tartar; when cooled to the tem- I perature of seventy-five degrees, put m I a little new yeast, let it stand four days i in a warm room, then turn it. The mix- : ture should, if possible, be fermented in a temperature of sixty degrees; when the fermentation has subsided, bung down the cask, and let it stand at least twelve months before bottling. March and Sep- tember are the best seasons for making it. It only requires to be kept a few years to render it superior to all other made wines, in the same degree <is East India Madeira surpasses Cape. PARTRIDGES, in Choose. —Vfhen they are young the bill is of a dark colour, I and their legs are of a yellowish colour; I and when fresh, the vent is firm, but this part will look greenish when stale. The plumage on the breast of the hen is light, that on the cock is tinged with red. Partridges, d I’AUemande. — Take two partridges that have hung for some time, cut off all the meat, remove all the skin, nerves, &c., and pound the rest with half a pound of butter, some crumbs soaked in boiling cream, and two eggs ; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Make the above into halls, about as big as marbles ; place them on a dish for table, pour over them a sauce, composed of the bones of the partridges, boiled in consomme, thickened with the yolks of six eggs, and strained. Set the dish in a bain marie till the balls swell, and are isufticiently done. Partridges, d VAnglaise.*—Make a farce with the livers of three partridges, a little butter, and some pepper, with which fill your birds, roast tliem about g three parts, then put them into a stew- pan ; raise each joint (but do not divide 9 them entirely from the body); put -be- tween every part a little butter, worked Bup with bread crumbs, shred shalots, parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, and N nutmeg; dilute with a glass of Cham- Ipagne, and two spoonsful of consommi; stew them till quite done, squeeze over the juice of two Seville oranges, add a little of their peel grated, and serve them. Partridges, Boudins of.— Having made the boudins of quenelles of par- tridges, put them, with a little salt, into a well buttered stewpan, cover them with boiling water; poach, and then drain them ; when cold, dip them into an omelet, then into crumbs of bread, and fry them ; drain the boudins tho- roughly, and serve with an lialienne. _ These boudins may also be broiled, in which case they should be dipped in yolks of eggs, rolled in bread-crumbs, then im- mersed in warmed butter, breaded again, and then broiled slowly. PARTRiDGES,2?roi7erf.*—Take five par- tridges, cut them in halves, trim and dip them in melted butter, and bread them twice; a quarter of an hour before din- ner broil them. Serve them with a sauce d la Diable. Partridges wiV/i Cabbages.*—Take as many birds as you may require for a dish, and dress them as directed for pheasants, with cabbages. Partridges, with Red Cabbage.— Take two red cabbages, and cut them in fine shreds, which thoroughly wash, and put them to stew, with a good piece of butter, and a little pepper and salt; if they begin to stick to the bottom of the stewpan, put in a small ladleful of stock, continuing to add this quantity of stock every time they appear dry, till done; then mix in two table-spoonsful of vinegar, and lay them neatlyon the dish, and then upon this lay three partridges well stewed. Partridges, d, la Cendre.*. — Truss as many partridges as you choose, as if for roasting; take an equal number of sheets of white paper, on each of which lay about twenty slices of truffles, and on them a partridge; fold over every one two mote sheets of paper, turning the edges up, so that the birds may be en- tirely excluded from the air. Bury them completely in hot ashes, and in a quar- ter of an hour turn and leave.them for the same space of time; then take them from the papers, and serve them wiih the truffles. Partridges, an Charbon.*—Take five young partridges, cut each in half, flat- ten and put in the claw, so as to resemble the bone of a chop; beat them lightly, and season with salt and pepper ; dip each in melted butter, and roll them in minced truffles; about a quarter of an hour before dinner broil them. Serve with a demi-glaze, in which is a little lemon-juice. Partridge, Chartreuse c/.*—Take a middling sized cabbage, cut it in half, and blanch it; in a few minutes take it out, drain and press out all the water; when cold, tie them up with two partridges, roperly trussed and larded ; cover the ottom of a stewpan with thin slices of 2 K3( 378 ) FAR PAR bacon, on which place tlie cabbage, two eervelas, six sausages, two carrots, two onions, season with pepper and salt; lay more slices over, and set it on a gentle fire. While it is cooking, cut some tur- nips, carrots, and onions, into thin slices, as near_ of a size as you can, and put them with young French beans, or any other vegetable you may like, into some stock, stirring them constantly over the fire till they are done, when drain them. Fake a plain round mould, butter it well, and lay round the bottom of it the- carrots, &c., properly arranged, leaving the centre open, into which, put first the cabbage, and then the partridges’ breasts, downwards, the servel,as, sausages, ana bacon, so that the mould be entirely filled; make it hot in a iam wiorfe; be- fore it is turned out (which must be done with great care), place the mould in a slanting direction, that all fat may be drained off. Partridges, Cutlets o/.*—Take the fillets of six partridges, and having re- moved the skin, beat them with the handle of the knife; then take the pinion- bones, scrape and thrust them into the ends of the fillets ; melt a sufficient quantity of butter in a fryingpan, put in tne fillets, sprinkle them with a little salt, and brown them lightly. Having drained the fillets, let the butter cool a little, and add to jtthe yolks of two eggs; dip your fillets in this, bread and place them on a gridiron over hot ashes; colour both sides ; dish them en cou- romie, and serve with a clear reduced Jximet, or sauce, d la Diahle. Partridges, d la Daube Sicilienne.— Your birds being properly trussed, lard them with equal portions of bacon, and anchovies, rolled in spices, but without salt; then put them into a braisingpan, with a knuckle of veal, a quarter of a pound of butter, two glasses of brandy, a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the whole, a bundle of sweet herbs, three cloves, two of garlic, and twoonions; set these on a slow fire for five or six liours; then take out the birds, put them into a tureen, strain the sauce, and pour it over them, stirring occasionally: as soon as you perceive it begins to form a jelly, mix a little butter with it, which will give it tlie appearance of marble. Partridges, d I’Espagnole.*—Put a quarter of a pound of butter, the juice of a lemon, a little pepper, and a slice of ham in a stewpan ; add the partridges, and set them on a slow fire, that they may not take colour ; in a little while, put to them six ladiesful of espagiiole, half a bottle of white wine, a bay-leaf, parsley, scallions, and a clove ; when these have simmered three quarters of an hour, take out the birds, lay them in a dish, and having cleared away the fat, and reduced the sauce to half, strain it over, and serve. Partridges, d I'Elouffade.* — Take three partridges, properly prepared, lard them witli bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, pounded herbs; truss, and having tied them up, put them into a stewpan on sliced bacon, cover them with veal, add two carrots, two onions, two cloves, par- sley, scallions, salt, tliyme, and bay- leaf; lay bacon, and a buttered paper over the whole ; pour in a glass of white wine, the same of stock, and simmer them for an hour and a half; then take out the birds, drain and untie them; put three ladiesful of espagnole, the same of fume of game, reduce it to half, and pour it over the partridges. Partridges (Galantine(f) with Truf- fles.*—Take all the meat from a small leveret; put aside the filets, of which make a scallop, weigh the remainder of the meat, and mince it with double its weight of fat bacon, and half a pound of ham ; when mixed, add a sufficient quan- tity of spiced salt, and the yolk of an egg. Bone three fine partridges, spread them open on a napkin, make them of as equal a thickness as you can, by paring away the thicker parts, and laying the pieces on those which are thinner; season them with the spiced salt, put on each a sixth part of the farce, spread this all over their surface, and lay on it three truffles. cut in halves, which makes six piec« for every bird ; ivrap these pieces each in a bit of pork caul, and in the space be- tween, place some of the scallop of leve- ret ; season, and lay the remainuer of the farce over. Sew up tl^e partridges in their original form, wrap each first in slices of bacon, and then in a linen cloth, tie them up, and place them in a stew- pan lined with bacon; put in the l^ies of the. leveret and partridges, four onions, four carrots, a bunch of parsley, scalli- ons, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, four cjoves. two calf’s feet, a sufficient quantity of consomme to cover the surface of the galantine, a glass of dry Madeira, and two dessert spoonsful of old brandy; cover the whole with a buttered paper; sot it oil’on a brisk fire, and then let it simmer gently for two hours. At t.;e end of that time take it off ; when nearly cold, drain it, and when quite so, remove the wrappers, trim the birds lightly, and glaze them : put them properly on a dish and ornament them, and then dish with jelly according to your taste. _ P.\RTRi ncE. Habillc.*—Having trussed a partridge, put into the body a piece of butter the size of a walnut, tie it up in bacon, and roast it till about two thirds hPAR 370 ) PAR done; in the meantime, make a farce with the liver, parsley, shalots, crumb of bread, and butter, all pounded toge- ther ; take up the partridge, raise all its joints, and place some of ihe/arce under each, press the ^)art8 down again, tie up the bird, and stew it over a slow tire in equal quantities of consonv7ie and white wine. Partridges, a VItalienne. — Tho- roughly stew three partridges, with a farce, in their crops (or thejr may he boned) and the insides stuffed with plenty of good farce, lay them in a dish, and with a spoon garnish them with an Ita- lienne sauce. Partridges, Loaf*—Make a puree of partridges, adding to it ten or a dozen raw eggs, rub it through a coarse sieve; take a plain circular mould, butter it well, and fill it with the pwee, put it into the bain marie, and let it simmer for three hours; then turn it out on a dish, and pour over a fumet of game. Partridges, Manselle o/.* —Cut up four roasted partridges, put all the best parts into a saucepan to keep them hot; put the remainder of the birds into a mortar, with six shalots, a little .parsley, pepper, and a bay-leaf ; pound tliem well, and then put them into a saucepan, add half a glass of white wine, the same of stock, four ladiesful of espagiiole, and a little grated nutmeg; reduce these to about half, then rub it through a sieve, on to the birds, and serve them. Partridges, d la Mayon?iaise.*—Cut up three cold roasted partridges, trim the pieces, and put them into a basin with salt, pepper, vinegar, a little oil, and a minced when they have lain a sufticieRt time in tliis, drain and place them in a dish, taking care to have the three breasts uppermost, garnish them round with jelly, and pour over a mayonnaise; decorate the top with fil- lets of anchovies, gherkin, capers, and hard eggs. Partridges, Maicedf—T&kc the fil- lets from eight roasted partridges, mince, and put them into a saucepan; make a Ijght roux, in which put the livers and lights of tlie birds, a bay-leaf, a clove, three shalots, and a little sage, give them a few turns, and then add two large glasses of stock, reduce the sauce to half, strain and put it to the mince, stirring till it is thick and smooth ; make it_ hot, but not boiling ; serve it over fried bread, and garnish your dish, with either poached or hard eggs. Partridges, d la Monglus*—Having prepared and, trussed your partridges, roast, and let them stand till cold ; then take off the breasts, so that the remain- der of the birds may have the form of an oval well; cut the meat off the breasts, two or three trullles, and a score of small mushrooms into dice, mix them together; take six ladiesful of the same of fumet of game; reduce them to a third, and strain them over the mince ; heat your partridges in the lain marie ; place the birds in a dish, pour the ragofit into them, and serve with espagnole tru- vaillee. Partridges, en Pain.*—Take a nice shaped loaf, of about a pound weight; make a hole at one end, through which take out all the crumbs, mb the crust over with a little butter or lard, and set it in the oven for a few minutes to dry : fill this with minced partridge (see that article), and put the loaf, bottom up- wards, into a stewpan ; add two spoons- ful of veal blond, with any other garnish you please ; let it remain on the fire till the bread is soft enough to allow a straw to penetrate it, then take it out and dish it with the sauce round. Partridge, aux Papillotes.*—Cut a good sized partridge completely in half, from the neck to the rump ; put some butter into a pan, and do up the two pieces in it over the fire ; in aoout eight or ten minutes take them out, cover with herbs en papillotes, and let them stand to cool; then take a square piece of paper, large-enough to hold the half bird, rub it over with oil, lay a thin slice of bacon on it, then the bird, with the herbs, another thin slice of bacon, and fold the paper over the whole, and broil them slowly on a moderate fire. Serve them with a clear gravy. Partridge Pie in a Dish.—Take four partridges, pick and singe them; cut off their legs at the knee ; season with pep- per, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Put a veal steak and a slice of ham at the bottom of the dish ; put in the partridges with half a pint of good conso77ime. Line the edges of the dish with puff-paste, and cover with the same; do it over with egg, and let it bake for an hour. Part ni does (Stmiding Pie of) Chaude- froid. * — Make about six pounds of raised paste, which wrap in a damp cloth, and set it aside. Take five par- tridges, pick and bone them ; weigh the meat, and to each pound put a quarter of a pound of sniced salt; cuttbe meat from two wild rabhits, of which take a pound and d half, mince this with two pounds and a quarter of fat bacon, then put both these articles into a mortar, and pound them with eight drachms of spiced salt, two yolks, one whole egg, a shalot minced and blanolicd, a dessert-spoonful of pars- ley, two of mushrooms, tw,o of trullles,380 PAR PA R (all well minced); rub this farce through a quenelle sieve, and mix it in a pan, with a pound of truflies, cut into dice, and a table-spoonful of vcloute or espugnole. Cut a pound of fat bacon into small lar- dons, which roll in four drachms of spiced salt, and two spoonsful of parsley, mush- rooms, and truflies, all shred small ; with some of these lard the partridges withinside, so that the lardons may not penetrate the skin; and with the re- mainder lard a noix of veal. Having thus prepared your ingre- dients, proceed as follovvs: form three- fourths of your paste into a standing crust, eight inches in diameter, and eight in height, into which put about half the farce, spread it smoothly all over the bottom, to form a bed four or five inches thick ; lay open the partridges, strew half their proportion of spiced salt, put in each a spoonful of the farce, and form them into a kind of heart; prick the skins in two or three places with the point of a knife, and lay them on the pie, fill up the interstices w\th farce, and strew over the remaining portion of their spiced salt. Weigh the 7ioix of veal, and according to its weight, take the spiced salt (four drachms to a pound), trim the 7ioix as round as you can, place it on the par- tridges, fill up the space round it with farce ; strew the seasoning over, and cover the whole with a pound of the best butter cut in pieces, and so placed as to form a kind of dome, and on these lay slices of bacon and two bay-leaves. Roll out the remainder of the paste for tlie top, making it eleven inches in diameter; moisten the edges of the pie, and lay the cover on it, make a hole in the middle ; dorez and place the pie in a brisk oven for about teh minutes, then take it out, and tie it in some pasteboard cut for the purpose, and replace it for four hours ; at the end of that time take it out, put a piece of paste over the hole, and leave it to cool. When perfectly cold, cut off the lid carefully, takeout the veal, and put in its place a Salmi Chaiul-froid of partridges; lay these in order, pour the sauce over: replace the lid, and serve it on a folded napkin. These Chaud-froid pies may be com- posed of all kinds of fowl, pheasants, woodcocks, leverets, &c., according to your taste or convenience. P.\BTRinGES 1‘oeles*—Ttike the en- trails, livers, and gizzards, from three partridges (all the same size), through the crop very carefully; beat up three quarters of a pound of butter, a little salt, tlie juice of a lemon, pepper, and pounded aromatics ; fill your partridges with this, and truss them like a fowl; then put them in a stewpan on slices of bacon, cover them with the same and sliced lemon ; pour a pufile over, and simmer for half an hour; then take them out, drain, and serve with a crayfish between each ; make your sauce with espugnole and fumet as usual. Partbidge Potted.— Let your par- tridges be thoroughly cleaned, then sea- son them with mace, allspice, white pep- per, and salt in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay them in a pan with the breast downwards, packing the birds as close as possible. Put plenty of but- ter over them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste, and a paper over that, closely down, and then bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. Partridges {Puree of).*—This puree is made in the same manner as that of fowls, substituting an espugnole travuille, fumet of game for the bechamelle&nA velouti. Partridges ( Quenelles of).—Take the skin and sinews from three young par- tridges ; mince and pound them weil; rub it through a sieve, and mix it with equal quantities of panada and calf’s udder; pound all three togetlier till tho- roughly incorporated, then add one yoik and two whole eggs; season to your taste, and poach them as usual. (See Quenelles.) Partridges ( Quenelles of) a. la Sefton. —Make some quenelles with the meat of three very young partridges as above directed, and set the preparation on ice. When perfectly cold, form the boudin; poach and serve them with the following sauce ; mix four spoonsful of beqhamelle, with three of double cream, two of a glaze made of game, add a little salt, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; work these up till quite clear, and then pour it over the quenelles. Partridges to Roast.—Proceed in the same manner as in the directions for roasting pheasants. Partridges {Salmis of).*—Take four roasted partridges, cut them in pieces as neatly as possible, and put them into a stewpan ; bruise the remnants, put them into another saucepan, witli six ladiesful of espugnole, six shalots, a glass of white wine, a little parsley, a bay-leaf, a glass of stock, pepper and salt; set this on a brisk fire, and when reduced to half, strain it over the partridges; make the whole hot, but do not let it boil; dish your salmis, dip seme fried or toasted bread in the sauce, and lay them on the ?’artridges {Salmis qf) de Chasseur.* —Cut up two or three roasted partridges.I! I! , PAR i; and put the pieces into a stewpan, with |l three dessert-spoonsful of olive oil, half a i glass of red wine, a little salt, pepper^ p the juice of a lemon, and some of the II peel; toss the joints up in tliis sauce, and ' when sufficiently done, serve them. ! PARTniDOES fSafmiso/) Cold.*—Make ' your salmis as usual, but instead of I straining the sauce over the pieces, put ’ it into another saucepan, add to it three ' spoonsful of jelly, reduce, and strain it I again, and let it cool; when quite cold, dip your pieces into it, one at a time, and arrange them on a dish, the breasts :' at the top; decorate your dish with jelly, and serve. Partridges {Table) Salmis of.* — If you wish to make a salmis at table, cut up your birds, and lay the pieces in a I silver chafing dish, add to them salt, pepper, a glass of white wine, the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel grated, a few shalots minced, (pounded garlic if desired), and some raspings strewed I over the top; let it simmer about ten minutes, and then serve. Partridges in a Sahnis or Hash.— Take a brace of partridges that have been well roasted, and very neatly cut off the wings, iegs, and breasts; put them into a stewpan, and put the backbone into another stewpan, with a bit of lean ham, a small onion, a few stalks of pars- ley, a few peppercorns, one clove of gar- lic, a glass of sherry, a ladleful of good stock, and a ladleful of plain sauce ; let the whole boil over a gentle fire to the consistence of sauce in general ; this done, squeeze it through a tammy, to the legs and wings which were put into the other stewpan; put it to the fire to be very hot, then add the juice of half a lemon, a liaison oi the yolk of one egg, and a tablerspoonful of cream ; shake the whole well together, lay the partridges on the dish, and serve it to table. Partridge Saule.*—Having prepared a partridge as for la Tartare, put a good piece of butter into a frying-pan, lay in the bird, breast downwards; set it on a brisk fire, strew salt and pepper over, and when it is firm to the touch, turn and do the other side. Serve with a reduced espagnole, and half the juice of a lemon. Partridge (Scallops of).*—Cut the large and small fillets of four partridges into scallops, sprinkle them with salt, and fry them lightly in some butter; then having drained them, take out the butter, and put into the pan three spoons- ful of fumet of game, and two of ullc- mande\ give them a boil, and put the scallops into it, with some sliced truffles or mushrooms, a small piece of butter. PAR and lemon juice. Dish them with cro- quettes of game round, glaze, and serve. Partridges (Souffle of).*—Cut off the meat from some cold roasted partridges, chop and pound it well with some veloute and butter ; season it well, add the yolks of four or five eggs, and rub the pncrce through a sieve into a basin. Whip the whites of half a dozen eggs to a strong froth, which mix lightly with the pieree ; put the whole carefully into a dish, and bake it. Lay a paper over the top to prevent its burning. Twenty minutes are sufficient to do it properly ; it should be served the moment it is taken out of the oven. Partridge d la St. Laurent.*—Hav- ing picked and otherwise prepared your partridges, cut off' the claws, and truss the legs within the body near the rump, (without however making a large hole) ; then spread out the birds, and beat them on the breasts in order to give them as much surface as possible ; sprinkle them well with salt and pepper, and lay them breast downwards in a pan, in which is a little oil, set it on the fire, and when one side is done, turn them; about half an hour before dinner, broil them very slowly; take two ladiesful of espusnole, the juice of a lemon and a hall, some of the peel, a little salt and pepper;_ give this one boil, and when the partridges are done, serve with this sauce over therh. Partridges d la Sultane.*—Take, four partridges, from one of which cut all the meat, remove the sinews, &c., and pound it with some calf’s udder, mush- rooms, and anchovy, add a little con- somme, and stuff' the three remaining birds with ih\s farce; lard them with anchovies and mushrooms placed alter- nately ; roast them before a slow fire, basting them either with consomme or stock; brown them nicely, sprinkle salt and pounded spice over, and serve them hot. Partridges en Surprise.*—T.ike three very fresh partridges, clean and bone them all but the large bone of the leg, and leave on the claws; lay them open on a cloth, season with salt and pep- per, and spread over them a thin layer of partridge/arce-ewfe,- fillup the bodies, witli a cold salpicon ; roll and sew them into their original forili, truss the claws outwards; put them into a pan with a little butter, and brown the breasts ; let them cool, and then lard the breasts. Break the bones, and nut them into a stewpan, with a thin slice of ham, two onions, a clove, a carrot, a little mace, a well seasoned bouquet, r glassof Madeira, a spoonful of consomme, and some grated ( 381 ) IPAS ( 382 ) PAR bacon; put the birds into this, cover them with a double paper, buttered ; co- ver the saucepan close, put fire on the lid, and set them on a brisk fire for half an hour; let the breasts be as much coloured as if roasted; drain and dish them, Serve with fumet of game, or their own sauce strained. Partridge cX la Tartire.*—The par- tridge being trussed properly, dip it into melted butter, let it be well covered with it; sprinkle salt and pepper over, and roll it in bread crumbs, then broil it very slowly; when done, serve it over a remmlade or sauce d la Tarture, or if you like it better, a sauce piquante, or clear gravy. Partridges with Truffles. — Prepare three or four partridges, with truffles in the inside, the same as directed for pheasants, only, instead ofroasting, stew them in a good braize; then, having a few truffles well prepared, and mixed in good brown sauce, squeeze in a lemon ; and wheii very hot, pour the whole over the partridges, and serve. Partridges with Truffles.*— Empty three partridges through the breasts with great care; put a pound of grated bacon into a saucepan; add some mid- dling sized truffles in quarters, salt, pepper and spices ; when they simmer, throw in the trimmings of the truffles; take it oft' in about ten minutes, and when cold, stuft'the partridges with this preparation ; tie them up as round- as you can, and put them into a saucepan between slices of bacon; make a poete without any lemon, pour this over, and simmer an hour and a half; then drain, untie, and lay them in a dish. Mince two truffles, give them a few turns in a little butter; then add three ladiesful of espag7iole, and three of fumet of game, reduce the sauce to half, take oft'the fat, and serve it over the birds. Partridges to Truss.—Partridges are done in exactly the same way as phea- sants are trussed. (See Pheasants.) Partridges d la FiUeroi.—Vni some small onions into a little stock, with a bit of butter, salt and pepper, and having given them a boil, reduce the sauce, and let the onions take colour ; when tolera- bly brown, stuft' two or three partridges (boned) with them, truss them as if whole, h-y them lightly in a little oil, with pars- ley, shalotsand mushrooms ; then braize them slowly for about four or five hours, in stock and white wine, with slices of bacon and veal; skim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis, reduce, and serve it under the partridges. Pa rtri does (Fillets of) d la Chingara .* —Take the fillets of three partridges, and having trimmed, fry them lightly in a little butter ; then cover them with a piece of buttered paper ; take six slices of tongue d I’ecurlule, cut them to the size and shape of the fillets, heat them with some slock in a deep dish ; mince the trimmings of the tongue; then re- duce three spoonsful of espagnole and fne. fumet, (made with the remnants of the partridges) to a demi-glaze. Dish the fillets en couronne, with the tongue between each, pour a part of the sauce over them; put the mince to the re- mainder; mix them well, add to them a small piece of butter, and put it into the centre of the dish. Partridge (FiV/efso/) d la Monglas.* —Take the fillets from six partridges, remove the skin, decorate one side with truffles placed in chequers, and lay them this side downwards in melted butter, do not let them touch, cover them with a buttered paper ; take an equal number of the small fillets, fry them lightly, and when cold cut them into scallops, with as many truffles and mushrooms : reduce four spoonsful of velouie, and two of espagnole, strain it over the scallops, and keep them hot in the huin marie; fry the fillets lightly over hot ashes; when nearly done, add a small quantity of demi-glaze. Arrange your fillets round a dish alternately with fried bread cut in hearts, pour the scallops into the centre, glaze and serve. Partridge (^Fillets of) with Oranges.* — Take the fillets from eight roasted partridges (they should be but slightly done), place them on a piece of fried bread, and pour over them the following sauce:—Four ladiesful of espagnole tra- vaille, a little whole pepper, the juice of a Seville orange, and some of the peel; give this a boil, and pour it over. PASTE.*—Be very particular that your slab or paste table, rolling-pin and cutters are clean, and free from all old aste, and be very careful that both the our and butter are extremely good. Have a dry sieve always in readiness, in or by the flour tub, so as to use none without sifting it; for, though it may ap- pear pure and fine, bran, or small par- ticles of old paste may have fallen into it; sifting is, tlierefore, always necessary. Weigh one pound of flour, lay it in a circle on the slab; break one egg in the centre, put a small quantity of salt, and a little bit of butter; mix all these toge- ther lightly, add a little water, mix them again, then add more water, and so pro- ceed until it binds into paste; hut taka care that you do not make it too stiflT, nor squeeze it much together, till you find there is sufficient water; then workPAS ( 383 ) PAS it well together, ami roll it out on the slab, but do not roll it too thin ; work a pound of butter on the slab, spread it out to the size of the paste, with a knife cut it off altogether, and lay it on tlie paste ; then double the ends of the paste together, to inclose the butter ; then give it one turn, thus: roll it out till you just perceive the butter through the paste ; turn the end which is next to you I lialf way over, and the other end over that, I roll it once or twice with the rolling-pin; I then let it stand, this is called one turn ; I then, in three minutes time, turn it I again, and so proceed until you have given it six turns : then roll it out, and cut it iorpetits pates, or any shape you please; but, observe not to put over them too much egg, as that will prevent J their rising ; as soon as they are baked, 1 take them off the sheet, lay them on paper, and when cold, scrape the bot- toms, neatly cut out the insides ready for whatever you mean to put into them. For baking, see directions for the oven. Paste {CroqnaHte).*—Blanch a pound of almonds, dry them well in the stove, and pound them to a dry paste, adding occasionally, white of egg and orange- flower, put the paste into a stewpan, and set it on a slow fire, putting in the sugar a little at a time, and .stirring constantly. When the pasteis sufliciently consistent, put it in a heap on the table to cool, and then form it into cakes of any shape you please. VAWi^Croguante d I’Ilalienne.*—Take a pound of sweet almonds, two ounces of orange-flowers, the rind of a lemon, a pound and a halfof powder-sugar; blanch and pound the almonds, mixing with them the orange-flowers and lemon- u peel, adding, occasionally, white of egg ; (I in the meantime, clarify th.e sugar, boil I it to pntit bottle, and then take the pan from the fire, throw in the paste, mix it in; then replace the pan, stirring till the preparation no longer adheres to the pan, when put it into a dish, sprinkled well with sugar. As soon as it is cold, form it into cakes or lourles, and bake it in a moderate oven. I Paste (Gerttian).*—Take three pounds I of flour, a pound of butter, half a pound of sugar, halt a pound of almonds, cut in long slices, and half a pound of dried currants ; make a leaven with a fourth part of the flour, in the same manner as for a brioche, and put the remainder into a pan with the butter, warmed, the sugar and almonds ; mix them all together, add an ounce of salt, a glass of cream, and as many eggs as will make your paste rather thick, but soft; then put the leaven, stir it in well, pour it info a buttered mould, throw a cloth over, and let it stand five or six hours in a warm place to rise ; at the end of that time, put it into a hot oven to bake it. Paste d la Magdehhie.*—Put into a stewpan a pound of flour, a pound of powder-sugar, half a pound of warmed butter, a little orange-flower, and six eggs, or more, if necessary. Mix these together well, and then pour the prepa- ration into one large or several small moulds well buttered; make them smooth at the top, and bake in a gentle oven. Paste for Raised Pies. — Take four pounds of flour, one pound of butter, and a little salt, mix these together, adding water, a little at a time, taking care not to put too much, as this paste must be made as stiff as possible; when tho» roughly mixed, give it two or three turns, roll it and cut it out to the shape you want for your pie. Sometimes the butter is melted in warm water, and so mixed with the flour; then it will not require so much water, and the paste will stand better; but as_ you work your paste, when you find it get too cold, warm it a little; the first method of doing it is the best, if intended to be eaten. Paste (Short) for Tarts.—Take one pound of flour, lay it on the slab, and in the centre put half a pound of butter, two eggs, a very little salt, and a little water, mix them lightly together, and continue adding more water, till you find it bind ; mix it on the slab a little, and give it two turns, it is then ready for use. Paste d la Turque.*—Pound eight ounces of blanched almonds to a fine paste, when add a pound of fine flour, lialf a pound of butter, three quarters of a pound of powder-sugar, a tea-spoonful of safli’on in powder; beat these ingre- dients together thoroughly, and put in as many eggs as will make your paste soft; then butter a baking-tin, upon which spread the paste of an equal thickness ; mark on its surface whatever formed cakes you like; bake in a gentle oven, and when done, divide it according to the marks. Pistachios may be used in- stead of almonds. PASTILLES.*—To make these arti- cles, it is necessary to have a small cop- per stewpan that will hold about a pint, rather deep than wide, with a pointed j'P on the right side, and a tolerably long handle,_ also two pieces of worn), one about eighteeh inches long, and four in diameter, called the bois d labeller, the other about half the length, one inch in diameter, and the lower end, pointed so that it will exactly fit the lip ol the pan ;384 PEA PEA this is called the bois d C-goutler ; six or eight tin plates about tlie size of a sheet of letter-paper. For the best pastilles, take a pound of double-refined sugar reduced to an im- palpable powder ; sift it through a tammy on a sheet of wliite paper, put four or five spaonaful of this sugar into your pan, pour on it a little orange-flower water, and beat it well with tlie larger stick, until the preparation is sufficiently thin to run from the stick without being clear; if it be so, more sugar must be added. Put the pan over a chafing-dish filled with live coals, and let it stand (stirring constantly) till it boils ; then take it off the chafing di.sh, add two more spoons- Jul of sugar, work it up well, scrape away whatever sugar adheres to the stick, set it aside, and take the smaller stick in your right hand, hold the pan in your left (slanting) over one of the tin- plates; the sugar will, by these means, flow to the lip, then strike tlie point of the stick into the lip of the pan, which action will separate the liquid, so that each time the stick strikes the lip a sin- gle drop of the preparation will fall on the tin ; a little practice will be neces- sary before this operation can be perform- ed neatly. As soon as all your sugar, &c. is used, replenish the pan and pro- ceed as above directed, until you have as many pastilles as you may require. When cold and hard, remove them from the tins witli your hand, and keep them in boxes in a dry place. You may, if you please, colour the pastilles, taking care to perfume them with a correspond- ing odour. Pastilles, Common.*—These are made in the same manner as the best sort, the difference consists in the materials, (which are a quarter of a pound of powder to three quarters of a pound of sugar) and the perfumes are omitted. PASTILLAGES.* — Put two ounces of well-washed gum dragon into an earthen pan, with as much clear hot water as will cover it, lay a sheet of paper to keep out the dust, and let it stand twenty-four hours; then squeeze it through a coarse cloth into a marble mortar, and add to it as much starch and sugar (both in powder) as the gum water will contain ; pound these ingre- dients well, and strain them through a tammy into a pan which keep covered with a damp cloth. This p.astillage is used to form the ornamental parta of pastry and confectionary, such as tem- ples, baskets, &c., and may be tinired of the requisite shades, by mixing with it any of the colouring materials. PEACHES, Charlotte of* — Take twenty tolerably ripe peaches, cut them in halves, and scald them in a light sy- rup ; then drain and cut each half into three pieces (lengthwise) of equal thick- ness ; put these into a pan with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and half the quantity of warm butter; fry them lightly, and having prepared your Charlotte in the usual way, pour in the peaches and finish it (see Charlotte), n’hen in the dish for table, cover it completely with the syrup reduced to lanappe, and serve immediately. Peaches in a Cmnpote. — Cut your peaches in half, take out the stones, peel them, then set them on the fire in a sugar-pan, witli a suflicient quantity of thick clarified sugar to cover them, and let them simmer in this gently till done; then take them out in a basin, put in the kernels to the sugar, and let it boil until tolerably thick; put in the juice of two or three lemons, and pour the syrup over the peaches; serve them in a deep hot dish. Peach Cream.—The peaches must be prepared the same as for making jelly, butinstead of running it through a sieve, rub the whole through a tamrny, and make use of less isinglass; put it all at once in the mould, which must be set in ice. Peach Fritters.*—Take a dozen small ripe peaches, pare and cut them in halves, soak them in half a glass of brandy, and two spoonsful of sugar, on which has been rubbed the rind of a lemon : in two hours time take them out ami dip them, one by one^ into some good batter, and fry of a nice colour. Boil a quarter of a pound of sugar to caramel, with which gl.vze the fritters, strewing over each, as it is done, some gi'os sucre. Nectarine and apricotfritters are made in the same manner. Peach Jelly. — Cut ten or twelve peaches in halves, take out the stones and peel them; set a pint of smooth cla- rified sugar, diluted with water, on the fire ; when it has boiled and been skim- med, put in the peaches, the kernels should be broken and put in with them; let them boil very gently for ten minutes, then take out four or five of the halves, and lay them on a plate to be in readi- ness for garnishing the jelly ; let the remainder of the peaches boil for ten minutes longer; wliile they are boiling take three, lemons, cut oil’ the nnd, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve in abasin, pass the liquor of the ;>eaches into it, and then the isingla.'s, running it through the sieve two or three times, in order to mix it well; fill the mouldPEA 385 PEA ihalf ful) of jelly, and when set, put in the peaches and a little more jelly, and ( when tl’.at is set, fill up the mould. The Srea.'on why the lemons are peeled bef >re theyare squeezed for tliis jelly is, that the oil in the rind would rather spoil I the flavour of the jelly, than be any ad- I dition. Peach Marmalade.*—Choose the fine-it ( peaches, but they must not he too ripe ; I peel them, take out the stones, and put them into a China basin ; clarify a suffi- ! cient quantity of sugar to allow the fruit ■ to float in the syrup ; Itoil this sugar to I lisse; let it cool a little, then pour it I over your fruit, and leave it; the next day I drain away the syrup, and boih it twelve I or fifteen times; then pour it again over the fruit; repeat this process every ", twenty-four hours for six days: each i time adding a little sugar, and boiling it longer, until at the last it reaches the I degree perle, then add the fruit, - and boil them together a few minutes; as soon as they have boiled up three or four times, take the whole off the fire and put it into glass or China jars. During the six days that the fruit lays in the syrup, take care to place a piece of paper the size of the pan on the su rface of the syrup, topreventthe fruit from rising above the syrup, and keep it all equally moist. Plums are done exactly in the same way. Peaches tvii/i Pistachios.! Gimblettes of.*—Take some pufl-paste, give it four turns, and roll it out into two thin layers, each thirteen inches square, one of which place on a baking-tin (previously moist- ened), spread over this a pot of peach marmalade, cover it with the other layer, and then cut it with a circular paste- cutter of two inches diameter, take out the mid,dle with a cutter of one inch diameter. Beat up half the white of an egg and a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, and wash the over with it; in the remaining glaze add the other half white of egg, and throw into it a quarter of a pound of pistachios; when these arc completely covered with the glaze, stick them on the Gimblettes, en cimronne; when baked, replace them it, the oven to dry a minute or two, and serve either hot or cold. Peaches in a Timbale.—These are done the same as Peaches in a Compote, only that a small quantity of isinglass should he mixed in to turn them into a gentle j-lly ; serve them in a timbale. Peach Put a layer of tart paste on a flat di-h, moisten the edge, round which put a band of paste about an inch and a half wide ; put a piece of but- tered paper and a cover of common paste on, which prick in several places, dorez the band, bake, and glaze it; when done, take out the paper and paste, and put in their place a compote of peaches ; reduce the syrup, and the moment be- fore it is sent to t.nble, glaze the fruit with it. Peaches, l^ol-mi-vent of.*—Take three quarters of a pound of pufl-paste (of six turns), roll it out into a round piece of seven inches in diameter, put this on a very thin layer of fine paste; dorez the top, and with the point of a knife mark it within a proper distance from the edge, about a quarter of an inch deep. Put it in a brisk oven, and when sufficiently baked, take out the middle, dry it a mi- nute or two, sprinkle it all over with powder-sugar, and glaze it. Take twelve ripe peaches, as near of a size as possi- ble, cut them in halves, and boil them in a syrup made with six ounces of sugar; when done, drain, pare, and place those which are least coloured, en couronne, at the bottom of the vol-au vent, arrange the remainder over, with the kernels intro- duced here and there ; reduce the syrup, and just before the dish is sent to table, pour it over the fruit. PEARS Baked.—Take half a dozen fine pears, peel, cut them in halves, and lake out the cores j put them into a pan with a little red wine, a few cloves, half a pound of sugar, and some water. Set them in a moderate oven till tender, then put them on a slow fire to stew gently; add grated lemon-peel,and more sugar if necessary. They will be suffi- ciently red. Pears in Brandy.*—Take some beurre pears, not too ripej put them into a sauce- pan with a sufficient quantity of water to cover them, set them on the fire, and let them simmer, but not boil, until the pears will yield to the pressure of your finger; then change them into cold water; pare them with the greatest cape, so that not a single spot may remain; prick, and put them again on the fi.e in fresh water and the juice of a lemon ; let them boil very fast. As soon as the pears are soft enough for the head of a pm to penetrate them easily, take them out carefully with a skimmer, ard lay them m cold water. In the mean lime, having boiled your sugar to liss6, pour the boilmg_syrup on the pears, (pre- viously dpauied from the wpter), and leave thein, ^ The next day drain oil' tlic syrup, boil it to la nappe, then put in the pears, give them a lioil also; pro- ceed in the same manner on the third day, after which, drain the fruit, and put It into bottles. Boil up the syrup a few more limes, let it cool, and then pour on( ^6 ) PEA PEA it some brandy, (tliiee-fourths of the quantity of tlie syrup); run the mixture tlirpuKh a bag, put it to the pears, and cork tne bottles well. Pears Candied—are done like apri- cots. Pears (Compote of),^— Take some good sized pears, cut them in halves, and put them into boiling water; when soft, change them into cold water, in which squeeze a little lemon-juice. Boil some clarified sugar, drain the fruit well from the water, and then put tliem into the syrup; boil together until the pears are sufficiently done; skim, and place them in_ the compolier. A little Bur- gundy wine and prepared cochineal will give the compote a red colour. Pears {Compote of) a. la Bonne Femme.*— Choose your fruit carefully, take off the tops, and trim the tails, wash and drain them well; then put them into a skillet with sugar, cinnamon, two or three cloves, a little red wine, and some water. Set them on a slow fire, taking care to skim them. When sufficiently done, they will look wrinkled. Ibid. Red.*—Peel your fruit, and put it into a well glazed pipkin, with a glass of wine, a little cinnamon, sugar to the taste, and a little water; put in also a pewter spoon; cover the pipkin close, and set it on hot ashes. Wlien done, the pears will be of a fine reil colour. Pears to compound.*—Take a dozen large pears, coddle them ; when tender, take them out and lay them in cold water, pare and cut them in halves ; take out the cores, put them in syrup made thus :—Two pounds and a half of sugar to three pints of water, a little lemon-peel pared very thin, boiled in them, and a little cochineal bruised and put into a muslin-hag ; cover them, boil them quick till they are tender and of a good colour ; when cold, squeeze in the juice of two or three lemons. Pear Cream.—Take a dozen of jargo- nels (or any other mellow pears), peel, core, and cut them in quarters, put them in the tammy, and mash them well with a wooden spoon ; liien put to them a little clarified sugar cold, the juice of three lemons, with isinglass as cool as it can he without settling ; then ruh the whole through the tammy, and immediately set it in one large or several small moulds, with ice round them. Pears, Drfci/.—These arc done in the same manner us apples. Pears 6Vi7/<;a-.*—Pot some fine baking pears on a fiercely hcat»d stove, till the peel is well browned, then throw them into cold water; clean them thoroughlj. put them into a skillet with clnnlicd sugar, cinnamon, and a little water 1 when sufficiently tender, place them in the cempotier. Pear Ice.*—Take any kind of pear you may prefer, let them be quite ripe, and having pared and cut them into pieces, put them into a saucepan with a little water, set it on the fire; when the fruit is quite soft, rub It through a sieve ; to each pound of the pulp put three- quarters of a pound of sugar, boiled to petit lisse, and the juice of two lemons: mix them well, and freeze in the usual manner. (See lee.) Pears, to Keep.*—Choose the sound- est pears, peel, and cut them into quar- ters, take out the pips, put the pieces into bottles, which place in the bain- marie. If the pears are intended for the dessert, once boiling is sufficient; but il for cooking, they should boil up five or six times. Should the fruit thus bot- tled have fallen from the tree instead of having been gathered, they will require a quarter of an hour’s boiling. Pear Marmalade.*—Take six pounds of small pears and four pounds of sugar; put the pears into a saucepan with a little water, set it on the fire ; when the fruit is soft, take them out, pare, quarter, and core them ; as you do this, throw each piece into cold water, in another sauce- pan, and when all are done, set them on the fire. As soon as they are sufficiently soft, rub them through a sieve, and hav- ing in the meantime clarified and boiled the sugar iopetit (isse, pour the syrup to the pulp, set it on the fire, and stir them together until the marmalade is of the proper consistence ; then take it off, put It into pots, and when cold, tie them down. Pears Preserved* — Take care in making this preserve that the fruit be not too ripe ; they are in a fit state as soon as tlie pips are black. Set the pears on the fire in a sufficient quantity of water to cover them; take them off when quite soft, and throw them into cold water; pare them lightly, cut off the stalks, prick each witli a pin sutTi- ciently long to reach the core, and put them again into cold water, with a hand- ful of alum ; set them on the fire to boil until the pears are tender, then take them out, and put them into cold water for the third time. Clarify and boii some sugar to petit li.sse, put some water to it, and when it boils, add the pc.irs, rover the pan, .and give the whole a boil; skim and pour it into an earthen pan and leave it. The next day. drain the syrup from the pears, add a little more cf.irifieil Bug.ar to it, and boil it again to petit lisse ; pour it over Uie fruit, and( 387 ) PEA ) PEA leave it as before ; the next and two suc- j cessive days, proceed in the same way, J each time increasing the degree of boil- I ing, until it reaches grand perlc ; then I add the pears, give the preserve a boil (covered), skim and pour it into a pan, and place it in a stove for two days, then drain the fruit, and put it by for use. j Pears Stewed.—Wash and prick some r large stewing pears, and set them on the li fire in a large stewing-pan of water to |. scald; when scalded, take them out, and li put them on the fire in a pan with a siif- (I ficient quantity of thin clarified sugar to ti cover them, a stick of cinnamon, a little II mace, and two or three cloves; let them ;! stew gently till they begin to soften and II look rather red, then put in a bottle of fj port wine, and let them continue stewing |l until perfectly done, and look very; rich I' and red ; then put them in a basin or I jar, with the liquor over them ; they will I be all the better for keeping four or five I days. PEin Tart.—Pare your fruit carefully, I cut them into quarters, and take out the ii cores ; if large and green, toil them in a ‘ little water till soft; simmer them in some rich syrup, line a dish with puli- paste, lay in the pears with the syrup, t cover and bake it. PEAS, Boiled.—Set a large pan of ! Spring water on the fire ; when it boils, put i in the peas with a handful of salt, and a i stalkofmint; when done, drain them in a \ cullendei', and toss them in a stew-pan 1 with a good bit of butter, a little salt I and pepper; if for the second course, he I careful tliat they are the very youngest, and omit the pepoer. Peas d la Bourgcnise.*—Make a light i white roux, into which put your peas; ■ in a little while moisten them with a little I boiling water, then add salt, pepper, four onions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, j a lettuce chojtped small, and reduce ' them; wheu the peas are sufficiently 1 done, put in the yolks of three eggs ; after ] which, take care that it does not boil. : Sei"ve them quite hot. Peas d la Bourgeoise.—Cut two or 1 three cabbages, lettuces, or heads of en- I diye intosqum-cs, then fry three green j onions in clarified butter, of a fine brown ; the lettuces being well wasiied and drained from the water, put them into [| the pan with tlie onions, and let them < stew very gently till done, and then drain i them on a sieve. Toss them together Switli the peas, and stew them the same as in the direction for peas stewed d la Fran<;aisc. J Peas, Cullis o/.—Boil some green Q pease in a little good stock witli a bunch ij of parsley, scallions, and savory, rub them through a sieve into a cullis; if you wish it to he very green, add a little spinach essence. Muigre Peas Cullis is made in the same manner, only fish broth is used in- stead of the stock. Peas au Qras.*—Take some fre«i gatliered peas, and liaving shelled, wash, and drain them welt. Cut some streaky bacon into dice, which put into a stew pan nith a hunch of sweet herbs, set these on a gentle fire, and in half an hour add the peas, shaking the pan well; when the latter are about three parts done, moisten with veal gravy or consommef and finish them. Serve with fried bread. Peas (Green to Keep).—Shell and put them into a kettle of water when it boils; give them two or three warms. Peas d la Paysanne.—Prepare your peas as directed, d laSefton; wash very clean some cabbage and cos-lettuces, a handful of parsley, and a few scallions ; break tliera in pieces, and having drained, put them to the peas, and stew tiiem over a slow fire, stirring frequently to prevent their burning ; when sufficiently done, season with pepper and salt, and serve. Peas Puree, Potage o/.*—Put about three pintsof green peas into cold water, add to them a quarter of a pound of but- ter, which mix well with the peas by working them about with hands, then, having drained them in a cullen- der, put tlie peas into a stewpan with a little parsley and a few scallions ; set them on a moderate fire, stirring occa- sionally ; in half an hour’s time take them out, put them into a mortar, and pound tliem well; then rub them tlirough a sieve, adding a little cold broth to ena- ble them to pass through more easily; make yompuree very clear, heat it, and Eour it on the bread about ten minutes efore you serve it. Peas Pudding.*—Take a pint of good split peas, and having washed, soak them well in warm water; then tie them in a cloth, put the pudding into a sauce- pan of hot water, and boil it until quite soft. Wheu done, beat it up with a little butter and salt; serve it with boiled pork or beef. Peas in a Pur6e.—Proceed as directed for peas-soup, but let the puree be much thicker, and_ add a little more sngfar and salt; this will serve to garnish a stewed leg of lamb, lamb or mutton cutlets, duck steaed, &c. Peas (dry) Puree gf.*—Having waslied your peas thoroughly, put them into a saucepan with water, three carrots, three onions, two cloves, two heads of celery,( 388 ) PER PEA a quarter of a pound of butter, and Halt to the taste ; liaving boiled them till the peas are sufficiently done, take out tlie other vegetables, and rub the peas through a sieve. The puree sliould be rather thick than otherwise, as it may be made thinner by the potage which you add to it. Peas (Ragodt of) with Bacon.* — Take half a pound of bacon, cut it into pieces, which put into a stewpan with a little butter; put a pint of young peas into a basin, stir some butter into them, and pour on a little water ; leave the peas in this for about seven or eight minutes, then drain and set them on the fire ; in a few minutes, add a little broth, then bacon, parsley, scallions, salt, and pepper ; stew the whole over a gentle fire ; skim it well, and if too salt, add a little sugar. Peas 2 la Sefton.—Take three pints of young fresh-gathered peas, and put them into a pan with two ounces of but- ter and plenty of cold water, work them well with the butter till they adhere to- gether, and having drained them tho- roughly in a cullender, stew them gently with a bunch of parsley and scallions ; as soon as they become green, sprinkle a little flour over, give them a stir, pour a sufficient quantity of boiling water to cover them, and reduce it quickly over a large fire; dissolve a small lump of sugar, and merely a taste of salt in a little water; add this to the pens, and while they are still boiling, put in about two ounces of butter worked up with a spoonful of flour. Peas Soup. * —Take the liquor in which a joint of salt-beef, pork, or leg of mutton has been boiled; put it into a large saucepan, with beef-bones, a knuckle of ham, a carrot or two, a leek, a little celery-seed tied in a bag, a pint of split peas ; let the whole simmer by the side of the fire four or five hours. When sufficiently done, rub the peas through a cullender, strain the liquor over them, season it to your taste, and serve with mint dried, and rubbed fine, toasted or fried bread cut into dice, and cayenne pepper. Peas (Green) Soup.—Take a pint of old peas, put them into a saucepan with an equal quantity of water, ati ounce of butter, an onion or two. some lettuce- leaves, pepper and salt: cover the saucepan close, and let them simmer till the peas are quite soft; then rub them through a cullender, and to the liquor add more water, the remamderof the lettuces, a pint of young peas, a little chopped spiuach, mint, salt, pep- per, some more butter, and a table spoonful of flour; boil these also till the peas can be rubbed through a cullender; then mix them with the old peas, strain the liquor over, and serve. Peas (Green) to Stexo.—Put into a stewpan a quait of peas, a lettuce and an onion, both sliced, a bit of butter, some pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from wash- ing. Stew them very gently for two hours. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them; or a bit of flour and butter. Peas Stewed d lu FraiiQaise. — Boil some very young peas in plenty of spring water with a little salt in it; when done, drain oil' the water, and put them to stew with a bit of butter, a green onion, and a small buneh of parsley, a little sugar and salt; let these stew to- gether for a few minutes, then add two or three spoonsful of consomme; when they appear dry, add some cream sauce, but take great care not to put too much, if intended for the second course, as there is not so much required as for an entree in the first course; before serving, mix in a liaison oi the yolk of one egg, with a little cream. PEPPER CaA’es.—Boil a quarter of an ounce of whole white pepper in a gill of sack, for a quarter of an nour ; then strain, and mix the liquor with as much fine sugar as will make a paste; drop this on a tin plate,and let them dry. Pepper Put.*—Take as much spinach as will fill a good sized dish, put it in a saucepan without any water, set it on the fire, and let it Soil then drain off all the liquor, chop the spinach very fine, and return it to the saucepan, with the water just drained from it, more water, onions, three or four potatoes, a lettuce or head of endive cut small, the bones of any cold roast meat, if you have them, and half a pound of bacon; put the whole on the fire, and when it has boiled for about an hour, put in a few suet dumplings ; leave it twenty or thirty minutes longer; season it well with cayenne, and serve. Pepper Sauce.—Take an onion or two, a couple of carrots, a parsnip, half a parsley root (all cut in slice.'), two cloves of garlic, a bay-leaf, ttvo cloves, and a little butter; set them on the fire, and when they take colour, add some cullis. half a glass of vinegar and broth, salt and coarse pepper; reduce to a proper con- sistence, skim and strain it. PERCH.—Perch are not esteemed so much as carp and tench ; but they are a most delicate fish; their freshness may be ascertained by the liveliness of their eyes, and the stillness of their fins. 1 etchPER PER ( 3S9 ) |i do not preserve so good n flavour when J stewed, as when dressed in any other j way. Peoch au Beurre.* — Having tho- ( roughly cleaned and taken out the gills, I put your perch into a stewpan, with a sliced onion, a carrot, a bay-leaf, pars- ' ley, salt, and a little water. When done, dram them; take off'the scales and skins ti carefully; place the fins at equal dis- |i tances in the bodies, and serve them I covered with a butter sauce. Perch Boiled.— Put them into cold I water, and let them boil carefully; serve I with melted butter and soy. Perch Boiled.—Set the perch on in cold I spring water, with plenty of salt; as soon ] as they boil, skim them well, and place i them aside to simmer till done ; and I serve them either with anchovy sauce, or with melted butter and soy. II Perch in Court Bouillon.*—Having II cleaned your perch and i-ejected the gills, ll wash them well in vinegar, and then put ll them into a saucepan, with some butter, i; sweet hprbs, small white onions, and |j white wine; stew them till done ; drain, n and serve them dry, on a napkin folded, in a dish. Perch {Fillets of) Fried in a Mari- nade.—Scale and cut oil' the fillets of six perch without any bone, and let them soak for ten hours in a marinade, half vinegar, half water, carrots, onions, a bay-leaf, some peppercorns, salt, and a clove of garlic; a few minutes before you wish to serve them, take them out of the marinade, shake them in flour, and fry them quick in clear lard ; when free from the fat, place them on a dish, with good strong butler sauce under them, into which put a table-spoonful of tar- ragon vinegar; when very hot, pour it between the fish. Perch d la Gardiane.*—Scale, empty, and clean as many per-ch as you may require, and soak them for five minute’s in melted butter, with sweet herbs shred, salt, pepper, and pounded coriander; put the fish (with this marinade) into a jar, cover it very close, and set it in hot ashes; when you tliink the perch are about half done, add some good veal gravy, cover it as closely as before, and let it remain till the fish are done. Perch d la Hollundaise.— 'I’horoughly clean and wash tlie perch, then set them on the fire in half milk, half water, some salt, and a hit of butter; simmer them gently over a slow fire, and when done, drain oil’the liquor, lay them on a dish, with a sauce d la Hollundaise over them. Perch d la Polonaise.*—Clean three perch well, take out the gills and roes, in the place of which put carp roes ; tie up their heads, and stew them in a light salt and water, with parsley roots and leaves, bay-leaf, and lemon-peel._ When done, takeoff the scales and skins; dip the fish in a Ste. Menehofuld sauce, and bread them ; heat up the yolks of three eggs in a little melted butter, salt and pepper; dip the perch in this, and bread them a second lime; broil them slowly, and serve with a tomata sauce. Perch au Restaurant.* — Scale and clean your fish, and if large, soak them in hot brine, but if they are small, that is not necessary. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, set it on the fire, and keep stirring till it melts, then add some veal gva.'iy or co7isomme, salt, pepper, vine- gar, and your fish ; stew gently till suffi- ciently done. Serve with the sauce poured over. Perch d la Vasse Fiche.*—Take three or four perch, gut and clean them well; lake out the gills and roes (if they have any), and put some carp roes in their place, tying up the heads; put them into water slightly salted, with sliced carrots, parsley roots and leaves ; give them one boil only; then take out the fish, and mix with the sauce some well reduced veloute ; put the perch in again, give them another boil, and dish them, with the sauce poured over. Perch au fVater Sucket.*—Cut some parsley roots into small pieces, which put in a sufficient quantity of water to boil what perch you may liave; add a bunch of par.sleyanil some salt; when the roots are quite done, put in the perch well scaled and cleaned! lor ten minutes, n the_ mean time scald some parsley leaves in salt and water ; then drain the perch, place them in a tureen, with the parsley roots and leaves ; strain the liquor over it, and serve. Slices of bread and butter should be sent to table to eat with it. Perch with fVine.*—Having scaled and taken out the gills, put tlie perch into a stewpan, with equal quantities of stock and while wine, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two cloves, and some salt. When done, take out the fish, strain off the liquor, the dregs of which mix with some butter and a iiitle flour ; beat these up, set tliem on the fire, stirring till quite done, add- ing pepper, grated nutmeg, and a ball of anclioyy butter. Drain the perch well, and dish them with the above sauce. PERLINGO.*—Take a pound and a half of sifted flour, and having placed iron your slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which put Uiree quarters of a pound of hrown sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, tlie rind of two lemons, 2L3p E a PER ( 390 ) grated, and ten eggs; knead all these in- gredients togetlier well, until you have a pretty firm paste; if it should be too thin, add a handful more flour. Then cut the paste into sinnll pieces, each of which roll in the palms of your hands, till they are the length and thickness of your finger; take a round stick (about hajf the diameter of your paste), press this down on each of the pieces, so that they may be their original thickness on one side, and thin on the other ; when all are thus pressed, form them into little crowns (the flat side inwards, and the thin end uppermost), lay them on while paper, and bake them in a mode- rate oven ; in the meanwliile, make some white sugar varnish or icing, and when the perlingos are sufficiently done, dip them carefully in the varnish, one by one ; tlien replace them in the oven, a minute or two, to dry. PEROGEE Padogees.*—Take a piece of beef, mutton or lamb, that is tender, the same quantity of beef-suet, shred separately very fine, then mix them alto- gether, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and a little shalot; when seasoned, mix it with a little good broth or gravy; make a paste as followsMelt two ounces of Iresh butter in half a pint of warm milk; then put in one egg, well beaten, adding flour to it by degrees, till it is very stitti and no eyes in it; mould it well, roll it out very thin, cut it out with a very small basin, lay the meat on one side, turn the other over as a puff, close it with some egg, yolk and white beaten together, and fry in good beef- dripping. PERHY’. — Perry is a pleasant and wholesome liquor, made from the juice of pears, by means of fermentation, some- what in tlie same manner as cyder is made from apples. (See Cyder.) The best pears for perry, or at least the sorts which have been hitherto thought the fittest for making this liquor, are so excessively tart and harsh, as to be totally unfit for any other purpose. TheBosbury pear, the Bearland or Bar- land pear, are the most esteemed in Worcestershire, and the squash pear, as it is called, in Gloucestershire; the liquor made from this fruit is pale, sweet, yet remarkably fine, and of a strong body, and held in very great estimation. In making of perry, the pears should be ground and pressed, exactly in the same manner as those of apples in the making of cyder (see Cyder): but the reduced pulp should not be allowed to remain any length of lime without being pressed. In Herefordshire, or Die counties in its vicinity, it has never been the practice to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to correct the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of another, It is, however, thought more easy to find the required portion of sugar and astringency, as well as flavour, in three or four varieties than in one; therefore, it is supposed, ajudicious mix- ture of fruits affords a prospect of great benefit. In grinding, the pulp and rind of the pear, as in the apple, should be perfectly reduced, and though no benefit is said to be derived from the reduced pulp re- maining some hours unpressed, yet there is no doubt but, where all other circum- stances are the same, that portion of liquor will, for the most part, be found the best, which has remained the longest under the power of the mill-stone. The juices of the pear and the apple are constituted of the same component parts, but the proportions are different, ln_ the juice of tne pear, the tanning principle is predominant, with a |es8 por- tion of sugar, mucilage, and tinging mat- ter. Perry requires nearly the same sort of management, during the process of fer- mentation, as cyder ; but it dees not aflbrd the same indicaiions, by which the proper period of racking it off may be ascertained. The thick scum that col- lects on the surface of cyder, seldom appears on the juice of the pear ; and, during the time of the suspension of its fermentation, the excessive brightness of the former liquor, is rarely seen in the latter; but, wliere the fruit has been re- gularly ripe, its produce will generally become moderately clear and quiet in a few days after it is made, and it should then be drawn off from its grosser lees. To prevent an excess of fermentation, the same means are used as in making cyder, and the liquor is rendered per- fectly bright by isinglass. For ibis pur- pose the isinglass should he reduced to small fragments, by pounding in a mor- tar, and afterwards being steeped twelve or fourteen hours in a quantity of liquor, sufficient to produce its greatest degree of expansion. In this slate it must be mixed with a few gallons of the liquor, and stirred till it is diffused and suspend- ed in it; and it is then poured into the cask, and incorporated with tlie whole by continued agitation for two or three hours. This process should be repeated till the required degree of brightness is obtained, the liquor being each lime drawn off, on the second or third day, from its precipitated lees. About an ounce and a half, or two ounces of isin-PET 391 ) P II E glasF, are generally put into a cask of a hundred and ten gallons, at once; vyere its mode of action purely mechanical, there could be no objection to a larger quantity; but it has also a chemical action on the liquor. It combines with, and carries down the tanning principle, and hence, during the process of fining, the liquor is deprived of a large portion of its astringency. This substance is most readily diffused, in liquors, by boiling ; but, by this it is dissolved, and converted into glue, and its organization, op which alone its powers of fining de- pend, is totally destroyed. But, when perry can be made suffi- ciently bright without it, it is better not to use the isinglass; as the liquor is ren- dered extremely agreeable to the eye by it, but is thought to become more thin and acid by its action. In the after-management of perry, the method is the same as that of cyder, but it does not bear situations, where it is exposed to much change of temperature, 60 well, and its future merit cannot be so well judged of by its present state. In the bottle it almost always retains its good qualities, and in that situation it is best to be put, if it remains sound and perfect, at the conclusion of the first suc- ceeding summer. The above directions are, principally, according to Mr. Knight’s rules. Perry Vinegar, as made in Holland.* —The pears which fall from the trees, are picked up, cut into slices, and put into casks; water is poured over them, and they are left exposed to the sun, and yeast is added to hasten the fermenta- tion. When the vinegar is made, strain, and let it rest some days; after which, a deposit is formed; draw off the vinegar carefully, and bottle it. PERSICA.*—Cut about one hundred peach leaves, put them into a wide- mouthed bottle, pour on them a quart of the best brandy, cork it close; in three weeks_ strain it off, and put to it an equal quantity of capillaire. It is good in cus- tards, puddings, and as a liqueur. Petits Pates ('//of).*—Roll out about a pound of puff-paste to a proper thick- ness, which cut into pieces, with a plain round paste-cutter, two inches in diame- ter; place half the number of these pieces on a baking-iin (slightly wetted), about half an inch apart; moisten each of them a little, and liaving laid a small bit of godiveau on every one, cover them with the remainder of the paste, press the edges together, dorez. and bake them in a brisk oven, of a clear brown. PETTITOES.—Roil the feet, thelivcr, and the heart, ofa sucking pig, in a little water, very; gently, then split the feet, and cut the meat very small, and simmer it with a little of the water till the feet are perfectly tender ; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little pepper and salt; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, put the feet on the mince. PHEASANTS.—The spurs of a young cock pheasant, should be short and round ; when they are long and sharp, the bird is old. A cock pheasant isa fine flavoured bird, but the Ken is accounted the best. When the bird is stale, if the vent is rubbed by the finger, the skin peels off. The same rules may be ob- served for black-cocks. Pheasant d I’Angoumoise.*—Toss up some truffles in a little butter, season them to the taste; then take them from the fire, and when cold, add to them five and twenty or thirty roasted and peeled chesnuts ; stuff a pheasant, larded with truffles, with these, and then wrap it in thin slices of veal or mutton, over which lay two rashers of bacon; tie it up, and put it in a pan on more bacon ; pour a sufficient quantity of malaga, or any other Spanish wine, to cover it, and set it in the oven ; when done, untie it; take oil' all the fat, add some more truffles, and thicken the sauce with roasted chesnuts, pounded quite dry. Pheasant, Boudin of.*— Take all the meat from a cold roasted pheasant (with- out any of the skin or sinews), and mince it very small; break the bones to pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of water; draw out the essence of them over the file; soak some bread in this essence ; boil six onions in broth, season them with salt, pepper, cloves, nutmeg, a little basil, and pars- ley ; when done, mince, and mix them with the pheasant .and bread; put the whole into a mortar,and pound it: dilute with cream ; add the yolks of six eggs, and three quarters ofa pound of beef, cut into dice, salt and spices ; put the prepa- ration into skins, as usual. (See Black Ptiddings.) Pheasant. Boudin d la Richelieu.*^ Take all the meat of a pheasant, pound, and rub it.through a quenelle sieve; in the meantime, roast a dozen large po- tatoes, pare them very clean, and,Laving pounded them also, take as much of them as you have pheasant, and pound toge- ther ; add an equal portion of butler, salt, pepper, nutmeg and other spices ; pound the whole, putting in five eggs, one at a time ; when all are in, take the /arce from the mortar, sprinkle the end of the table with flour, lay the farce on it, and roll it up in the form of thickPHE P H E ( 392 ) sausages ; poach these, and drain them ; ^vhen cold, bread them, dip them in eggs beaten with a little melted butter and salt; broil, and serve them with a fume, made of the remnants. - Pheasant wit/i Cabbages.*— Take a trussed pheasant, lard the breast and legs with bacon, rolled in pepper, salt, and pounded spice; cover it with bacon, line a stewpan with bacon also, and put in the pheasant, with a modeiate sized ser- velas, four carrots, four onions, two cloves, two bay-leaves, some slices of veal, and a pound of streaked bacon; blanch the cabbages, tie them up, that they may not lose their shape, and put them to the pheasant, with stock and pepper; let them simmer for two hours; then drain the cabbages, place the phea- sant in the centre of a dish, the other articles round, and serve with B.fumet of game. Pheasant wUh Celery. — Prepare a pheasant the same as a (owl is prepared for boiling; then stew it in any kind of good braize till it is well done; have ready six line heads of celery, cut into rounds about the size of a Ehiliing,hlanch them for a few minutes, drain them on a sieve, and then put them to slew till nearly dry, in good stock; have ready some good brown sauce, with a bit of butter mixed in it; put the celery to this, add one squeeze of lemon-juice, stir it gently, and pour the whole over the pheasant, and serve it to table hot. Pheasant {Fillets of) d la Chevalier.* —Take eight tillets, put aside the small ones, (which must he fried lightly, to lay in the centre of the dish), ti im and lard the others ; put slices of bacon and veal, the remaiiuler of the pheasants, two car- rots, four onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, into a saucepan ; lay in the fillets nicely; pour over them one glass of white wine, two of consomme, a little salt, and cover the whole with a buttered paper; set the pan on the fire, and as soon as it boils, lessen the fire beneath, and cover ihe lid with hot coals; in about an hour take out the fillets, drain, and glaze them. Strain and reduce the liquor, add three ladies- ful of espagnole', when the sauce is of the right consistence, strain it again into a dish, and serve the fillets in it, laid on fried bread. Pheasant, Croquettes of.*—Take the white meat from three pheasants (roast- ed), remove all the skin and nei'ves, and cut the meat into dice ; put a latilefni of bechamel into a saucepan, reduce it to half, then add to it two ounces of fresh butter, which must dissolve in the sauce without being put on the fiie; strain it over the minced pheasant, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; mix the whole together well, and when cold, lay it in heaps nearly as big as an egg; give them what shape you please, roll them in bread-crumbs, after which soak them a minute in eggs, beaten with salt and pep- per; bread them a second time, and fry the croquettes in the usual way. Pheasant, to Dress.—A pheasant may be done in almost every manner that a fowl is dressed, besides being made into pelits pates, croquettes, m an aspic jelly, or Italian salad. Pheasant, d la d’Estaing.*—Lard a good sized pheasant, give it a few turns in some melted l)utter, then tie slices of bacon round, and roast it. In the mean- time, take the roes of carp and other fish, with which make a matelote] add to it some balls ol godiveau, trufides, morels, sweet herbs, small onions, veal sweet- breads, and any other articles you may choose, all diessed in veal gravy ; when the pheasant is done, take oil'the bacon, put it into a dish, and pour the above ra- gofit over it. Ph EASANT,a VEtottffade.*—Your phea- sant being properly prepared and truss- ed, mb some bacon with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon ; lard the breast and legs w’ith this, and tie up the bird in slices of bacon, line a stewpan with more slices, put the phea- santon them, and pour over some poe/^e, and equal quantities of white wine and stock; simmer it for two hours; then drain, untie, and serve it over an essence of game. Pheasant, Farce d VEspagnole. — Make a veal forcemeat, and put part of it into the crop of the pheasant (it being prepared for stewing), and make the re- mainder into long rolls ; blanch and stew them in the same manner as directed for pigeons, with the same sauce. Pheasants, in Fillets.—Cut out the fillets of the breast, the same as from a fowl, lay them on a table, and with a large knife cut them into three thin slices, then lay them caiefully in some clarified butter. When the whole is done, sprinkle a little s.alt over them ; do them for a minute over a quick fire (turning them on each side), but he careful that they are not brown ; drain them from the butter, and dish them in the form of a star, and pour over them some butter sauce, very hot, with half a lemon squeezed into it. Pheasant, ett Galantine.*—Choose a large pheasant for this purpose; having picked it, fte. split it down ti.e back bone, and spread it open on a cloth, cover it entirely with a game farce; cut someI HE ( 393 ) P H E ' calf’s udder, tongue, d I’ecarlute, and j truftles, in lardona, roll tliese well in a I mixture of salt, pepper, pounded spice, j and aromatic herbs ; place these iardons i at equal distances, and alternately on I the Jurce ; then some fillets of rabbit, 1 cover the whole with the farce, and pro- ■ ceed thus until the pheasant be filled ; then roll it up, form it as near as pos- sible in its original shape, lay slices of bacon round, and wrap it in a new cloth ; sew it over, and tie the ends tight; put some onions, carrots, two cloves, two bay-leaves, garlic, a quarter of a pound of ham, two knuckles of veal, and the . bones of the pheasant, or any other game; place the bird on this, cover it with slices of bacon, pour in some stock, and a bottle ! of white wine (there should be a suffi- i cient quantity of liquid to cover the phea- sant) ; put a buttered paper over the whole, cover the pan close, and set it on a brisk fire, with hot ashes on the lid, I and leave it for three hours ; then re- move it from the fire, let it remain ano- ther hour in the braisingpan, after which take it out, press it lightly to flatten the breast as much as possible. Strain the jiquor, and set it on the fire again ; skim it well, and when it is on the point of boiling, add a glass of white wine ; skim it again, and reduce it a fourth ; beat four eggs in some cold water, take the jelly from the fire, and put the eggs in, a little at a time ; stir constantly till the whoje_ becomes as white as milk; add the juice of two lemons, and set it on the side of the stove to clarify; when reduced to about half its original quantity, strain it through a napkin, and let it cool; in the meantime, unwrap the pheasant, clear away all the fat, glaze, and having placed it on a napkin, garnish it with the D jelly. Pheasant ( Galantine of) d la Parist- enne.*—Soak and blanch a fine fat liver, cut it in halves, each of which divide into four slices ; pound two of these, a par- tridge boned, and an equal quantity of fat bacon ; season the whole highly, add the yolks of tv/o eggs, and sweet hei bs (the latter dressed^ in a little butter); when the.'^e ingredients are thoroughly pounded, rub \.\ie farce through a quenelle sieve. Take a plump pheasant that has hung some days, lay it open on a napkin, and season it high, spread half the farce over it; on this put three of the slices of liver, and between each, some truffles, cut in halves ; strev/ over a proper quan- tity of spiced salt; then half the remain- ing/arce, the liver, truffles, and spice, as before ; cover the whole with the rest of the farce, and sew up the bird in its l| original form, and cook the galantine in the usual way (see galantine of par- tridges). The pheasant However, requites to be three hours on the fire. Pheasant (,Gratin of)- — Mince ex- tremely fine the breast of a pheasant that has been roasted, and put it in some good hichamelle sauce; mix it well up, and add a little lemon-juice; then pour it into a dish, shake over it a few bread- crumbs, sprinkle it with clarified butter, and then with more bread-crumbs, and, just before it is wanted, colourit with the salamander. Pheasant, d VItalienne.-fSfe\\ stew a couple of small pheasants with & farce in their crops ; place them carefully on a dish, pour over the whole an Italienne sauce, and send them to table. Pheasant, with Olives.*—Stuffs phea- sant with a farce, composed of fat livers, truffles, scallions (all minced), streaked bacon pounded, salt, pepper, and nut- meg, mixed together, with one or two yolks of eggs; wrap the bird in a slice of bacon, and roast it. When done, serve it with olives, stewed in rich veal gravy, poured round. Pheasant, d la PtrweMg'.*—Having picked and singed a pheasant, take out the entrails, &c., through the crop ; take a_ pound and half of truffles, clean and pick them, cut them into pieces about the size of a nut, mince the trimmings very small; put half a pound of grated bacon, a quarterof a pound of butter, and the same of olive oil, in a saucepan ; set them on the fire, and when hot, put in the cut truffles, give them a few turns, and then add a little salt, pepper, and spices; in about five minutes, throw in the minced trimmings for a minute or two ; then take off the pan, and when cold, fill your pheasant with Inis, through the crop; lay a very thin piece of bacon on the aperture, draw the skin over, truss the biid, and tie it, so that the truf- fles cannot escape, and put it between slices of bacon into a saucepan, pour some poelee on it without the lemon- juice, cover it with a piece of buttered paper, and let it simmer for an hour; then drain and untie it carefully, and place it on a dish. Mince two truffles, give them a few turns in some but- ter ; add three ladlesful of espagnole, the same ofof game, reduce the sauce to half, strain, and pour it on the bird. Pheasant (Hot raised Pie of).*—Take a couple of pheasants that have hung for some days, and when picked and singed, cut them up, and give them a few turns in herbs; in the meantime make a raised crust, about seven inches in diameter and four in height, but smaller in the middle3&4 ) PHE P HE than at top or bottom ; on the bottom and sides of tills spread some good godivemc, or fine farce, with a couple of truflles minced small, lay the legs and backs of the pheasants on this, then four or five truflles, each cut in half, then place the fillets and breasts, more truflles, and so on till the birds are in; pour over them the herbs in whicli they were cooked; cover the whole with two bay-leaves, and some slices of bacon; lay a paste on the top, ornament the exterior of the pie according to your fancy, dorez, and put it into a brisk oven ; as soon as the top of the pie is nicely coloured, cut it onF carefiilly, and place in its stead four pieces of paper, at least nine inches in diameter; let the pie remain in the oven for an hour and a half; drain oft’ the fat, and pour in an espagmle with some minced truflles, glaze the crust, and send it to table as soon as possible, after it is taken out of the oven. Pheasant, Standing Pie of.*—Bone three fine pheasants which have hung for some days, lard them with small lardons ; then lay them open on the table, season with spiced salt, put in each two spoons- ful oifarce, and a few truflles ; then sew up each in the form of a ball. Take a stewpan, the size you intend to have your pie, line it completely with slices of ham and bacon, on which lay the pheasants, and a noix of veal, tied up that the form may be preserved ; add to these, a sufti- cientquantity of spiced salt, the bones of the pheasants, some cuttings of veal, and truflles, four onions, fsluck with three cloves, two carrots, a large bunch of pars- ley and scallions, bay-leaf, basil, thyme, a glass of Spanish wine, two ladiesful of good consomme, and four of other broth skimmings ; talte care that your meat is covered with the liquor; put a buttered paper over the whole, and set it on the fire ; when it has boiled a few minutes, take it off, and put the saucepan on the stove with fiie on the lid, and leave it for an hour, boil'ng constantly. When quite cold, take out each article, add the ham and bacon to a /arce, made as directed for Partridge Standing-pie Chaud-froid. Raise your crust as usual, and put into it a quarter of the/arce, make it smooth, and having untied the veal, lay that in the pie, strew a little spiced salt over, a third of the remaining farce, and four truffles, each cut in two; then take the thread from the pheasants, trim them a little that they may lay in the pie without injuring the shape; put a pinch of spiced salt, and some truffles, cover them with the rest of the/«ree, in which put more truflles, cut in halves, then add the but- ter, bay-leaves, &c., and finish as direct- ed in the above mentioned receipt. Three hours and a half are sufficient to bake this pie; when taken out of the oven, pour in the consomme, previously strained through a cloth, and close the hole with a piece of paste. Pheasant to Roast.—Take out the en- trails, and singe the pheasant over the stove, then roll a bit of butter in pepper and salt, and put it into the inside of the bird ; truss it neatly with the head turn- ed on one side, keeping the breast as full as possible; over which should be laid slices of fat bacon tied on with pack- thread : before it is put on the spit, break the liackbonc, that it may lay the better on the dish. A good sized phea- sant will take half an hour; when nearly done, take away the bacon, brown the pheasant well; sprinkle it with flour and salt, and froth it with butter; serve it with water-cresses, a good gravy under it, and bread sauce in a lioat. Pheasant, Salmis of.*—Take two cold roasted pheasants, cut them up, trim the pieces properly, take off all the skin, and put the limbs into a stewpan. Put the remains of the pheasants into another saucepan, with a glass of white wine, four shalots, a little Seville orange-peel, half a clove of garlic, half a bay-leaf, four spoonsful of espagnoletravaiilee, a bit of glaze, and a spoonful o{consomme; re- duce these, and then strain the sauce over the pheasant, make it hot in the bain marie, but do not let it boil; lay them in a dish, the smallest pieces first, and the more considerable ones round, intermixed wilh fried bread; squeeze the juice of a Seville oi-ange into the sauce, which pour over the bird. Pheasant with Saur-Kraut.*—Take a large pheasant, and liaving picked and singed, truss it like a chicken; season the inside with parslev, scallions, salt, pepper, and spices, and lard it; take a sufficient quantity of saur-kraut to fill a good sized dish, put it into a saucepan, with a piece of bacon, and a servehas, and some pot skimmings, set it on a moder- ate fire for a quarter of an hour, then take out the bacon and servelas, put in the pheasant, and leave it an hour and a . half; when done, take it out, put it on a dish, drain the saur-kraut, and lay it round the bird; remove the skin, and cut the servelas into slices, which, with the bacon also sliced, place round the whole. . . Pheasant, Sonffli of.*—This dish is prepared in the same manner as the sonffli of partridge. Pheasant iPt'fA Trtiffles.—Tdk^ a fine barge pheasant, and prt^pare it the same as a fowl for boiling, with slices of fatI 1 P H E ( 395 ) PII E bacon on the breasts; and put into the inside four or five whole truffles, and some chopped, with paisley and tliyme; then put it to roast till it is well done, and of a fine brown colour, then dish it up, and garnish it with a good brown sauce, with truffles and mushrooms. Pheasant to Truss,—Let it be well picked and singed, then cut a slit in the back of the neck, and carefully take the crop out without breaking it; then cut off'the vent, and draw out the inside, after this, well wipe the inside, and then put in a little pepper and salt, mixed with a bitof butter. Having cleansed it, proceed to truss the bird, by first cutting off'the pinion at the first joint, so that the featliers need not be picked off that part; break the back-bone, and truss it in the same manner as a fowl, by press- ing the legs close to the apron, then turn the bird on the breast, and run a skewer througti the end of the pinion, the leg, the body, and the leg and pinion on the other side, with the head fixed on the end of the skewer, and over the breast lay a slice of fat bacon, and tie it on with packthread, ft for boiling or stewing, truss them the same as a fowl for boil- ing. Pheasants d la Turque.—Prepare two fine young pheasants, the same as chick- ens are prepared for stewing, with slices of fat bacon laid ever the breasts, then let them stew very gently in good braise, till they are done; in the meantime have some rice well stewed in good stock, with a small quantity of the fat, a little salt, and a bit of lean ham ; when well stewed, so that no liquid remains, lay it neatly in the dish, and the pheasants upon it, and, when you serve, pour over the whole a good hichamelle sauce. Pheasant {Fillets of) Bigarree.* — Cut six fillets from three young phea- sants, take six smaller ones, remove the skin from the former, beat tliem with the handle of the knife, and trim them, and having dissolved some butler in a toss- ing-pan, put three of them in it, and bread the three others, season with salt and pepper ; then lard three of the small fillets as usual, and three with truffles, lay them on a baking-pan with a little glaze and melted butter, and cover with a piece of buttered paper. Then take the legs of three cold roast pheasants, and having removed the skin, sinews, and bones, mince the meat very fine, and put it into a covered saucepan ; make a fume of the remainder of tlie pheasant; when done, strain, and reduce it, add three spoonsful of espugnole truvaillee, and reduce the whole to a demi-glazc ; all your materials being thus prepared. fry three fillets lightly, and broil those which are breaded; both sides bemg nicely done, dish them en courmme, with tongue d Vecarlaie, cut in hearts; put the mince, some chopped truffles, and a piece of butter into the sauce, make it quite hot, (without boiling), and pour it into the centre of the couronne ; fry the small fillets lightly, and place them over the mince, also en couronne, and serve. Pheasant {Fillet^ef) d la Ste. Mene- hould.*—Having seasoned your fillets will) salt and pepper, dip them in melted butter, and tlien in bread-crumbs ; take care that tbev are well covered with the latter, broil them slowly, and serve with an ftalienne, or tomata sauce. Pheasant {Fillets of) wiih Trudies.*— flaving larded and dressed the fillets d la chevaliei'{see. that article), take the nerve from the small fillets, make half a dozen incisions in each, into which put a piece of truffle, having cut some in thin round slices,and divided them again into halves; all the small fillets being thus garnished, form them into semi-circles, and lay them, wiih a little salt and pep- per, between two slices of bacon, set them on a stove and fry them lightly; drain your large fillets, glaze, and place them on a dish over a of truffles; lay the small fillets in the centre, and serve. Pheasant {Fillets of) Sautes.*—Take eight fillets, trim and put them into a frying-pan with a little salt and pepper, put the small fillets in also; pour over them three quarters of a pound of melted butter; set tlie pan on a brisk fire, and do them on both sides, two or three mi- nutes is sufficient to do them. Dish them alternately with fried bread, en couronne, the small fillets in the centre ; serve with espagnole mixed with afumet of game. Pheasant Legs en Balloiine.*—Take as many pheasant legs .asyou may waiit^ cut as much skin with them as you pos- sibly can ; bone them completely, lay them on a cloth, season them with salt, pepper, and spices, spread over each a little of the same kind of farce as you use for Pheasant Galantine, draw the skin over, and serv them up; place them in a stewpan between slices of bacon, with some good stock, half a bottle of white wine, a carrot, an onion, one clove, a hay- leaf, garlic, salt, and pepper; set the pan on the fire for about an hour; then take out the legs, lay them between two dishes, with a weight over; when cold, trim and stick seven or eight pieces of truffles in the upper aide of each, heat them iu a dcmi-glace, and dish them. IPIE (396 P I E en couronne, with a puree of mushrooms in the middle. Pheasant Legs with Puree ef Len- tils.*—Cut the legs from the birds with as much ol tlie skin as you can ; take out the bones, in tlie place of whicli putin a little farce made of bacon pounded, and mixed with sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; draw the skin over, and sew it up ; put the legs into a stewpan between slices of bacon; add two carrots, four sliced onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, some slices of veal, and a ladleful of stock ; simmer them for an hour and a half; then drain them, take off the thread, dish them, alternately with fried bread en couronne, with the puree of lentils in the centre. PICKLE/or Tongites.*—'Vo four gal Ions of water, add two pounds and a half of treacle, eight pounds of salt, two ounces of stilipetre ; boil it, and skim it until clear, spi inkle salt over the tongue, and let it stand two days, wipe it clean before you put it into the pickle, which must be quite cold ; boil the pickle every two or three ntonths, adding two or three handsful of salt, skimming it well. Half the quantity is sufficient for two tongues. PIE, Take a deep dish, line the edge with puff-paste like a common pie; stew a quarter of a pound of rice with some sugar until quite soft and sweet; take a pound of ripe juicy cherries, which pick and roll in a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar, and lay about a quarter of them at the bottom of the dish ; cover these with a fourth part of the rice, then the cherries again, and soon till your materials are used, taking ctire to keep the pie high in the middle; cover it witii a layer of puff-paste, which wash over lightly with some white of egg, and strew a little powder-sugar over; put it in a moderate oveti for an hour and a quarter; theti take it out, mask the crust with apricot marmalade, and a few macaroons crushed. Serve it cither hotor cold. ViT. {liaised) to be served Hot.—Make a stiff’paste, as directed for Raised Pies, which mix with warm water; «hen tho- roughly well mixed and blended together, roll it out tolerably thin ; ettt a piece oitt for the bottom, and two for the sides, ac- cording to the shape of the dish, egg the edges of the parts you intend to join, and press them well together, so that the joining rriay not be perceptible; shape it, ga^ni^h it with leaves or festoons, ac- corditig to your own taste, fill it nearly to the top with bran, egg it, and let it bo baked in a moderate oven ; when doneo! a fine light colour turn out the bran, and set it ready for what you Intend to put in, which m.ay be either cittlets of mutton stewed with vegetables, partridges farced with a brown saitce, chicken cut up with a ragr.ht in a brown sauce, stewed carp, or eels, &c. Pie {Hot Raised) Anglo-Franfuis.*— Take the fillets from four loins of mutton, trim and cut them into scollops, which season well with salt, pepper, and nut- meg; dissolve slowly three quai ters of a pound of butter, and the instant it be- comes liquid put into it two spoonsful of parsley, four of mushrooms, the same of truffles (all shred fine), and a shalot, blanched and shred also. Make a raised crust of whatever form and size you please, and having soaked the fillets in the butter and herbs, lay them on the pie, en cou- ronne \ fill upthe centre with mushrooms, minced truffies, artichoke-bottoms, veal or lamb sweetbreads; pour the remain- der of the butter and herbs over; cover them with two bay-leaves, slices of ba- con, and the lid of the pie; decorate the walls or sides tastefully', dorez and set it in a brisk oven ; when you find the top is sufficiently coloured, cut it off and lay in its place three or four sheets of paper, and replace the pie in the oven; an hour and a half is the time it will require to bake properly ; as soon as it is done, take out the bay-leaves and bacon, and pour in a demi-glaze of mutton mixed with an essence of truffles and mushrooms and the juice of a lemon ; glaze the crust, and serve it quite hot. Pie {Hot Raised) d la Financiere.*— Make a raised crust of any form you may- think proper; line the inside with thin slices of bacon, and fill it up with beef- suet chopped small; decorate the exte- rior of the pie according to your fancy, dorez and put it into a brisk oven for an hour ; then take it out, and when it is a little cooled, take out all the contents, half fill it with a fowl or game quenelle, and finish it with a ragofit ol lamb sweet- breads, cock’s-combs, and kidneys, mushrooms, truffles, artichoke-bottoms, six cray-fish, and as many cray-fish tails; pour in some good espagnole, worked up with a fowl consomme, flavoured with truffles, some Rhenish or dry Madeira wine. Glaze the. pie lightly, and seive it as quickly .after it is baked as you ran. Pie {French) Raised, to be served Cold.—Bowe some chickens, partridges, or pheasants, the number according to the size you intend to make your pie ; be particularly careful that no particle of bone remains, and that you do not break the skin ; when the whole is boned, with pepper and salt sprinkled in, fill it well with the forcemeat made of chicken397 ) PIE PIE livers (see Forcemeat for Raised Ries)^ Hnd lay in long slips of lean liHm,tnifnes, and fat livers; then close your chickens, or whatever it may be, by drawing the skin of the neck over the part that is open ; raise your pie the, same as in the receipt for Raised Pie to be served Hot, only let the crust be much thicker, and secure all the joining parts ; tvhen so far done, cut some large thin slices ol fat bacon, lay them first at the bottom, then allround tlie sides; make what you in- tend to put in as nearly to the shape of the pie as you possibly can, by filling up every part, that there may be no cavity under the meat; or it may occasion your pie to fall or lose its shape; when all is put in, cover it well over with fat bacon, and lay three bay-leaves on the top ; for gravy, put in some liquor in which truffles have been stewed, or some good strong veal or beef braize, egg the edge of the pie round, and lay on a good thick cover, joining it well to the edge, that being a great support to the pie; then neatly trim it all round ; form on the top of the crust a star of leaves with a hole in the centre; on the sides festoons, leaves, or garlands, according to your own taste; egg it lightly over, and bake it in a hot regularly heated oven; a small-sized pie will take about four hours baking, a larger pie accordingly; take care, on first putting it in, that it does not catch or burn, which it is apt to do, and in that case, have plenty of paper to lay over it. Before the pie is quite done, set on some good consomme or veal braize, and let it boil till it becomes very strong, and pour it into the pie as soon as it is taken out of the oven, and set it to cool; if the next day it should appear to have taken all the gravy, more must be added. It had better stand three or four days before it is served ; you may, for a change, take oft’the cover, and in its place sprinkle some clear savory jelly on the top. This is a good dish for the side table. Pie (Hot Raised) d la Monglas.*—Soak two fine fat livers in warm water till they are perfectly cleansed, then set them on the fire in cold water; when near boiling take out the livers, and throw them into cold water again, and wiien cool cut them into scollops, season them well, and having melted a quarter of a pound of butter, the same of grated bacon, a dessert-spoonful of parsley, two of mush- rooms, four of truffles (all shred small), a small piece of slmlot, hlanchcd and minced, salt and spices to your taste, • jiut the livers into tfiis, set it on a gentle fire for ten minutes ; then set it by, and when cold, trim the pieces, take about a fourth part ol them, and pound them with the trimmings; mix some of this with an equal quantity of good fowl/«ree. Having raised a crust in the usual way (see Hot Raised Pie for Pheasants), line the inside completely with the farce, lay the liver in proper order in it, pour m the herbs, and place on the whole two bay-leaves and slices of bacon, lay on the top, and finish the pie as above directed. When done, pour in a sauce made as follows :—Take the pounded liver that was set aside, put it into a saucepan with a spoonful of espagnole, make them hot, and having strained, add to them three ladiesful of espagnole, worked up with a fowl consmnnii, some Madeira wine, and four fine truffles, minced ; make this very hot, but do not let it boil. Pie (Hot Raised) Russian.*—Tske a small salmon, and a small fat liver, cut them into scollops, and simmer both (but separately) in some butter, with shred mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and shalot, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; mince the yolks of a dozen hard eggs. Make a raised crust as usual (see Hot Raised Pie of Pheasant), within which put a layer of rice, previously boiled in chicken broth, but cold (as should be the other materials also) ; on this lay some of the scollops of salmon, on which strew part of the eggs; then a layer of the liver, strew the egg, then the salmon again, and so on, till your pie is full; then pour in the butter and herbs; cover the whole with rice, and finish the pie according to the above directions. Pie, Pithiviers.*—Take eight dozen of larks, and having picked and singed them, split them open, take out the in- testines, which (except the gizzards) mix wiih bread-crumbs and two pounds of the following farce:—Take equal quantities of fillet of veal and bacon, mince these, season them with pepper, salt, and spices ; then pound them and the intes- tines, adding occasionally small quan- tities of jelly to keep it of a proper con- sistence, and fill the bodies of the larks with it. Take about two pounds of paste for raised crusts, raise it as usual, mak- ing it either square or round, as you may think proper; lay a bed of farce at tlie bottom of it, on which place the larks, vvell-seasoned, and each wrapped in a thin slice of bacon, put some butter worked with flour over, cover the whole with slices of bacon, two bay-leaves, and the top crust; fix the edges together, ornament the top and sides according to your taste, dorez, and bake it for two hours and a half, serve it cold. tVood- cocks, snipes, or anyother small birds, may be used instead of larks. Pie, Squab, or Devonshii'e,*—Take a 2 J\ I398 P I G P I G fow good baking apples, pare, core, and slice them; chop some onions very small; line a deep dish with paste, put in a layer of the apples, strew a little sugar, and some of the chopped onions over them ; season them, and lay lean mutton chops, also seasoned, more onions, then the apples, &c. as before, and so on till tlie dish is quite full; cover, and bake the pie. Via Baked.—Lay your pig in a dish, flour it well all over, then rub it over with butter; butter the dish you lay it in, and put it into the oven. When done enough, take it out, and rub it over with a butter cloth ; then put it again into the oven till it is dry, then take it out and lay it in a dish ; cut it up, take a little veal gravy, and take oft the fat in the dish it was baked in, and there will be some good gravy at the bottom ; put that to the veal gravy, with a little bit of but- ter, rolled in flour ; boil it up, and put it in a dish in which the pig has been Laid, and put the brains with some sage into the belly. Some persons like a pig to be brought to table whole, in which case you are only to put what sauce you like into the dish. Pig, Barbicned.—Scald, &c., a pig, of about nine or ten weeks old, the same as for roasting; make a stuffing with a few sage-leaves, the liver of the pig, and two anchovies boned, washed, and cut ex- tremely small; put them into a mortar, with some bread-crumbs, a q^uarter of a pound of butter, a very little cayenne peppei-, and half a pint of Madeira wine; beat them to a paste, and sew it up in the pig : lay it at a good distance befoie a large brisk fire ; singe it well; put two bottles of Madeira wine into the drip- ping-pan, and keep basting it all the time it is roasting ; when half done, put two French rolls into the drippingpan ; and if there is not wine enough in the drippingpan, add more ; when the^ig is nearly done, take the rolls and sauce, and put them into a saucepan, with an anchovy cut small, a bunch of sw’^et herbs, and the juice of a lemon ; take'up the pig, send it to table with an apple in its mouth, and a roll on each side ; then strain the sauce over it. Some barbicue a pig of six or seven weeks old, and stick it all over with blanched almonds, and baste it in the same manner with Madeira wine. Pio, Collared. — Take a fine young roasting pig, and ns soon as it is killed, dress olT the hair, and diaw it; wash it clean ; rip it open from one end to the other, and completely bone it; rub it all over with pepper and salt, a little cloves and mace, beaten fine, some sage leaves, and sweet herbs, chopped fine, then bind it up. Fill the pot you mean to br)il it fn with soft water, and put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper-corns, cloves, mace, a handful of salt, and a pint of vine- gar; when the liquor boils put in the p'g. and let it boil till tender ; take it up, and when almost cold, bind itover again ; put it into an earthen pan, and pour the liquor that it was boiled in over it, and keep it covered ; when you want to use it, take it out of the pan, untie the fillet as far m you want to cut it, and then cut it in slices, and lay it in your dish. Garnish with parsley. Pig, eyi Galantine.*—Well scald a pig, bone and extend it on a linen cloth ; then lay over it a good meat stuffing, seasoned according to taste ; put over the stuffing, which should be laid on about the thick- ness of a crown, first a layer of ham, cut in thin slices, and then a layer of hard eggs; cover these layers with a little forcemeat, roll up the pig, being careful not to displace the layers, and cover it with thin slices of fat baron, wrapping the whole in a filtering cloth ; wind some packthread tight round it, and let it boil for three hours, in equal quaniiiies of stock and white wine, adding salt and coarse pepper, some roots and onion“, a large bunch of par.sley, shalots, a clove of garlic, cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, and basil ; when done, leave it to cool in tl»e stock, and serve cold ; you may add, if you think proper, a layer of trufiles. Pig’s Harslet.—Wash and dry some livers, sweetbread.s, and some fet and lean pieces of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make them tender; season with pepper, salt, and sage, and a little onion shredded fine ; when mixed, put all into a cawl, and fasten it tight with a needle and_ thread, and roast it by a jack, or by a string. Or, serve in slit e.-', with parsley, for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port wine and water, and mustard, just boiled up, and put it into a dish Pig Dressed like House Lamb.—Take the fore-quarter of a pig, about six week's old ; skin and truss it as a fore-quarter of lamb: flour it, and sprinkle it over with a little salt, and send it to table nicely frothed. With mint sauce or salad, it will eat like lamb. When it comes to table, cut off the shoulder, and squeeze the juice of a Seville orange over it. The Iiind quarter is very good roasted in the same way. Pio in ,/e//y.—Take a pig. and rut it into quarters ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint of Rhenish wine, or Lisbon wine, a quart of water, a little lemon-peel, the juice of four lemons, and a few cloves ; let it stew over a slow fire for two boms;PIG ( 390 ) PIG 2 M 2 after it hae stewed tliis time, take it up, lay the pig in a dishj strain tlie liquor, and when it is cold skim oft'the fat, leav- ing the settling at the bottom; warm the jelly again, and pour over the pig; serve 1 it up cold in the jelly. Pig i/i Jelly.—Having prepared a_ pig as if for roasting, put it into a braising- pan, large enough to contain it without spoiling the shape; add four calf’s feet, cut in pieces, a knuckle of veal, some slices of beet and ham, a bunch of pars- ley, shalots, cloves, garlic, bay-leaf, thyme, nutmeg, whole pepper and salt; cover the pig with slices of bacon, pour in a bottle of white wine, and double the quantity of good stock, cover the pan quite close, and set it on the fire for an hour, taking care that it does net boil too fast. When done, take out the pig ; gently, put the braise in another sance- i pan, clean the braisingpan, then put a I layer of fresh parsley, and some cray- 1 fish at the bottom of it, on which place i tlie pig back downwards, and keep it i hot. In the meantime, the braise hav- ing simmered, skim and strain it; add i some slices of peeled lemon, the whites [ and shells of eight eggs, well beaten (the latter should be pounded first), and boil ithe whole till perfectly clear, and of a pro- per consistence; then strain it through a napkin over the pig, so as to cover it completely; when the jelly is set, dip ( the pan into boiling water, and turn it ) out on a napkin folded to receive it. I Pig Olivet. — Bone, and cut off the Shead and feet of a fine pig ; take a part of the flesh, and mince it with some beef suet, then pound these with some bread I crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (all I shred), and add soo'ie cream, a spoonful b of brandy, the yolks of six eggs, pepper, I salt, and nutmeg. Cut the skin of the 8 pig into pieces, in each of which roll some of the /arcs, tie up the olives, and cook them in some stock ; add a glass of b white wine, and a few slices of peeled i lemon. Serve the olives with any sauce H you may think proper. I Pig’s Pettitoes d la Ste. Mtnehonld.— t. Well clean and wash the pettitoes, then ft line the bottom of a stewpau with an 0 onion and a carrot, cut in slices, a few pepper-corns, parsley, one clove of garlic, B and a bay-leaf; over these lay bards of 0 fat bacon, then place the pettitoes regu- ft Inrly over, then a fresh layer of bacon, il then pettitoes again, and bacon over 1 them; add some good beef stock, lay a t round paper close on the top, cover it, q! put them to stew between two fires very V gently, till thorouglily done; then take If them off, and when they are cool, toss ll them in eggs with pepper and salt; take them, and do them over with bread crumbs, lay them on paper: then dip them in clarified butter, and do them over with bread crumbs a second time; lay them on the gridiron, and grill them a fine light brown; dish them up, and serve under them a good remolade sauce. Pig, Rottladesof.—Scald a fine sucking pig, and having cutoff the head and feet, bone and cut it into quarters ; make a forcemeat xvith grated bacon, bread- crumbs, parsley, shalots, mushrooms (shred small), three yolks of eggs, pep- per and salt; put some of this upon each quarter, roll them up, and tie and braise them in stock and white wine. When done, take them out, skim and strain tlie sauce, add to it a little cullis and lemon- juice, a)id pour it over the roulades. Pig Stuffed. — After having scalded your pig, and prepared it in the usual manner, make a stuffing with its liver minced, some blanched bacon, a few truf- fles, mushrooms, shalots, fine capers, anchovies, fine herbs, pepper and salt, all warmed together in a saucepan. Fill the stomach of (he pig with this stuffing, roast it, basting it with sweet oil. It is generally served with a sauce d I’orange de Seville, seasoned with salt and white pepper. Pig, Timbale qp.*—Bone and take all the flesh from a nice pig, without injuring the skin ; mince the meat with truffles, ham, bacon, parsley, and shalots ; when minced, soak them in oil, pepper aivd salt. Lay the skin open in a small stew- pan, place the farce on it, close the skin, round it and cover it with slices of bacon ; fill the saucepan with good stock, and a pint of white wine; add sliced carrots, onions, parsley, garlic, shalots, cloves, bay-leaf and thyme. Let it be thoroughly stewed, and serve it either hot or cold ; if the latter, it must be more highly sea- soned, left to cool in the braise, and then turned out on a folded napkin. When sent to table hot, serve a sauce espag7iole with it. Pig’s Cheek to Prepare for Boiling.— Take oft the snout, and thoroughly etean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and brains; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it strain for four and twenty hours. Well salt it with common salt and saltpetre, and if it is to be dressed without stewing with peas, it must lay in salt for eight or ten days, but if to be dressed with peas, it need not lay in salt for so long ; and it must be washed first, aud then simmer ittill tender. Pig’s Ears.*— Braise your pig’s e.ars in the same manner as boar’s head (see that article); when cold, mince, and put them into a stewpan; take a dozen largeP I G PI G ( 400 ) onions, cuttlicm in semicircles, put them also into a stewpan,with a dessert-spoon- ful of flour; stir it well, and then add half a glass of vinegar, a glass of stock, salt and pepper; give the whole a few boils, then pour it over the ears, fry them lightly; and when done, lay them on a dish,^with fried bread round. Pro’s Lars Broiled.*—Having slightly salted the ears, boil ihem in some good stock, with salt, pepper, coriander, tar- ragon, streaky bacon, and half a glass of white wine; when done, split them in two, towards the thick part; rub them lightly with some of their own fat, bread them all over, and colour them on the gridiron. Pig’s Ears {Cake of).*— Take fifteen or eighteen pigs’ ears, and having singed and cleansed them thoroughly, cut them in halves, and put them into a pan with some sward of bacon, clear salted water, juniper,coriander,bay-leaf,cloves,thyme, saltpetre; cover the pan with a cloth, garlic, basil, sage, and half an ounce of and lay another pan on the top, le.ave them in this for eight or ten days ; then drain, and put them into a braising-pan, with water, a bottle of white wine, and a glass of brandy, and simmer them; in about five hours take them oS' the fire ; when nearly cold, drain and arrange the ears in layers, in a well-tinned mould, alternately with pieces of tongue d Vicar- iate ; when full, cover, and put a weight on it; keep the mould as even as possi- ble, let it cool, turn it out, and serve the cake ivitli jelly. Pio’s^ars d laLyonnaise.*—Take some braised pig’s ears, and having cut them into pieces, put them into a pan with a few chopped onions, (previously tossed up in a little butter), add a small quan- tity of flour, and a glass of stock ; reduce it, and serve with vinegar and lemon- juice. Pig’s Ears., with a Puree of Lentils.* —Put rather more than a pint of lentils into a stewpan, lay on them some pig’s ears, two carrots, three onions, one of them stuck with two cloves, two bay- leaves, and some salt; when the ears are done, take them out, and put them into a saucepan with a little broth, and keep them hot i put the lentils into a sieve, and rub them through with a wooden spoon ; if the puree be too thick or dry, add some stock, set it again on the fire, and reduce it. Drain the ears, lay them on a dish, and cover them completely with the puree. Pig’s ears may be dressed like this, with any other kind of puree you m.ay like better. Pio’s Ears Stuffed and Roasted.* ~ Make a farce of streaky bacon, veal. poultry, or game, minced, sweet herbs shred small, Inead soaked in cream, salt and apices ; with lW\s farce Btufl'as many half boiled pig’s ears as you may require; lake an equal number of large slices of bacon, spread a layer of the farce over each, ana tie an ear in every slice ; cover them well with bread crumbs, fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a slow' fire, basting with their own gravy. Pig’s Ears d la Venitienne.*—Boil the ears in some stock, wiih a couple of sprigs either of sage or tarragon ; when quite cold, rub them with lard ; cover tliem completely with bread ciumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, and bake them. Pig’s Uars in Various Ways.—Rub the ears daily with the following mixture; salt, bay-leaves, basil, and cloves, all pounded together; in four or five days boil them thoroughly, either in water alone, or with green or dried peas; serve the ears with a puree of peas, or sauce Robert. They are also sometimes cut in small pieces, and broiled or fried ac« cording to your taste. Pig’s Feet and Ears Fricasseed.—If they are to;'be dressed with cream, no vinegar should be put into the pickle. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk ; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal- broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before serving, add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. Pig’s Feet Jelly.—Clean and prepare them the same as for fricasseeing, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in a handful of chopped sage, and a handful of chopped parsley, and a sea- soning of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form. Pig’s Feet d la Ste. Itlenehould.* — Cut some pig’s feet in halves, and hav- ing tied them up, that their form may be preserved, put them into a saucepan, with thyme, bay-leaf, carrots, onions, cloves, par,‘<ley, scallions, a little brine, half a bottle of white wine, two ladlcsful of broth or water, (they require a great deal of liquid, as they ought to be a long time oil tlie fiie); some bits of any kind of meat may also be added. When the feet have simmered for twenty-four liotTrs, leave them to cool in the liquor, untie them carefully ; the next day dip them into melted butter, season with pepper, cover completely with bread crumbs, and broil ttiem slowly. Serve them without any sauce. Pig’s Feet and Ears Pickled.—Wash the feet and ears very clean, and between every foot put a bay-leaf; when they are! PIG (401 ) PIG ! well soaked, add some cloves, mace, co- ) riander-seed, and ginger j put a bottle of white wine to three pair of feet and 1 ears, some bay-leaves, a bunch of sweet herbs; let them boil gently till they are tender, then take them out of the liquor, lay them in an earthen pan ; when cold, take off the fat, and strain the liquor over them. They eat well cold, or warmed in the jelly, thickened with butter rolled i in flour ; or take the feet and ears out of the jelly, dip them in yolk of egg, and then in crumbs of bread, and broil them, or fry them in butter ; lay the ears in the , middle^ and the feet round: or ragoflt i them. Pig’s Feet and Ears (Ragoilt of).— ' Take them out of the pickle, split the ' feet, dip them in egg, then in bread ; crumbs and chopped parsley; fry them I in lard, drain them; cut the ears into t long narrow slips, flour them, put them it into good gravy; add ketchup, morels, i arid pickled mushrooms; stew them, ( pour them into a dish, and lay the feet j upon them. Pig’s Feet and Ears Soused.—Clean I them, and boil them till they are tender ; i then split the feet, and put them and 1 the ears in salt and water. When you 1 use them, dry them well in a cloth, dip them in batter, fry them, and send them t to table with melted butter in a boat. [ They may be eaten cold, and will keep a I considerable time. Pig’s Feet with Truffles,* — Cut the : feet in halves, tie and dress them as di- S rected for la Ste. Menvhould, but when they have simmered eight hours, remove them from the fire; when about half oold, take them out of the sauce, and bone them ; make a farce as follows :— I take equal portions of the white parts of > .cold roasted fowl, crumb of bread, and I ready dressed calf’s udder, pound them all, at first separately, and then all toge- ther; mix them with three or four yolks of eggs, some minced truffles, a little cream, salt, pepper, and spices ; these r being well amalgamated, add a few i{ truffles, cut in slices. Put this/oree into I the spaces left by the bones, cover it with i either calf's or pig’s caul; keep them in tlieir proper form, dip them in melted I butter, and bread them. About twenty / minutes before serving, broil them slowly • on both sides. Serve them without I sauce. Vio’sHeadCollared.—Very nicely scour the head and ears; take off'the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and brain ; I let it lay for one night in water ; then l| drain it; salt it extremely well, with 1 common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie i| for five days. Boil it sufficiently to take out the bones; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thick end of the other, to make the roll of an equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and white pep- per, and roll it with the ears ; and, if you think proper, put the pig’s feet round the outside, when boned, or the thin parts of a couple of cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender ; then put it under a weight, and do not take off' the covering until it is quite cold. If you wish it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in also some pieces of lean pork, and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. 'This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water, boiled with vinegar. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it, either with or without batter. Pig’s Kidnies with Champagne.* Mince the kidnies, and put them with a bit of butter, shred parsley and shalot, salt, pepper and nutmeg, into a pan, toss it up, and when lightly browned, add a dessert spoonful of flour, stir it in, and then pour on a glass of champagne ; stir all together over the fire, without letting it boil. Pig’s Liver and Brains in Caul.* — Mince half a pound of pig’s liver, and three quarters of a pound of fat; mix them together, season with salt, pepper, spices and dried herbs; take some pig’s caul cut in pieces, in each of which tie up a portion of the above ; flatten them, and broil them on a moderate fire. Pig’s brains are done precisely in the same way. Pig’s Liver, Fromage of.*—Take three ounds of liver, two pounds of bacon, and alf a pound of beef; mince them all to- gether, and then add shred parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, aromatic herbs, and spices, pounded; lay over the bot- tom of a mould or saucepan, very thin slices of bacon, on which spread the above farce, to about three inches in thickness; put a layer of seasoned lar- doHS o\\ this, then the farce again, and so on, alternately, till the mould is full; cover it with slices of bacon, and put it in the oven ; bake it for three hours. VVljen cold dip the mould in hot water, which will enable you to turn nut the fromage \yith ease ; make it liot in the before you serve it. Pig (Quarters of) with Peas.*—Cut a delicate young pig into quarters, which put into a braising pan on slices of bacon, with carrots, turnips, parsley, sage, bay- leaf, salt, and pepper; set the nan on the fire, and when it begins.to be fluvour- 2 M 3 IP I G PI G 402 ed, pour in a pint of good stock, as much white wine, and let it stew for five or six hours ; then take it out, and keep it hot'; dress some young peas in the sauce, and having glazed the quarters, lay them in a dish, and the peas round. Pio (S7ickhig).—A sucking pig is in prime order for the spit when it is about three weeks old. It loses part of its goodness every hour after it is killed ; if not quite fresh, no art can make the crackling crisp. To be eaten in perfeetion, it should be dressed the same day that it is killed ; it requires very careful roasting, and should not be left for an instant. The ends must have much more fire than the middle; for this purpose is contrived an iron to hang before the middle part, called a pig-iro7i. Roast it at a clear brisk fire, at some distance. The crackling must be nicely crisped, and delicately and lightly browned, witliout being either blistered or burnt. Pig’s {Sticking) Feet.—Blanch two or three sets of . feet and the plucks, then put the feet into half a pint of water, with a couple of sbalots, a small quantity of sage, and parsley chopped fine, some pounded nutmeg and mace, a very little of each; when the feet are three parts done, and the liquor nearly reduced, mince the pluck, and put ii to the feet with some cullis, half a table-spoonful of lemon-pickle, and a table-spoonful of white wine; season according to taste, with cayenne, pepper, and salt. Stew the feet till they are tender, and serve with sippets of bread round them, either plain or fried. Pio {Sucking) Fillets of, en Chemise.* —Take what remains from a cold roast pig, and cut it into small slices ; make a fwce of the liver, heart, and marrow of the animal, some streaky bacon, bread soaked in milk, and yolks of eggs, season it moderately. Take some sheep’s caul, cut it into pieces the size of your hand, upon each of which lay some of Xhejarce, and a slice of the pig; cover these with the/arceand another piece of caul, fix the edges together with beaten egg, bread and broil them slowly. Pig {Sucking) d la Pere Douillette.— Take a sucking pig, cut ofl' its head, and cut the pig into four quarters, put them to stew between bards of fat baconj with tiie head split and laid in the middle, covering the whole with a good braise, adding nearly half a bottle of sherry, with a bay-leaf, carrots, onions, parsley, a small piece of garlic, and some salt; let the whole stew gently between two fires for the space of half an hour; then take it up, and lay it in a stewpan, with a little of the braise it was stewed in, and set it by the fire; pass the remainder through a sieve into another stewpan; put this on the fire, and as soon as it boils stir in five good spoonsful of plain sauce; when that boils, put in some truffles, mushrooms, morels, fat livers, and let it boil till nearly as tliick as sauces in general. Having taken up the stewed pig, and laid it on a dish, cut a sweetbread (previously stewed) into slices, and lay ihem round the pig, put a liaison of the yolks of two eggs, and a little cream into the sauce, with the other tilings; add the juice of half a lemon, and pour the whole over the pig; be careful that it is very hot, but take care that it does not boil after the eggs are put in. Pig {Sucking) Roasted.—A pig ta roast is best from three to four weeks old. Pre- pare a stuffing with slices of bread and butter, sprinkled well_ with chopped sage, and seasoned with pepper and salt, laying five or six slices one upon another, and put them into the inside of the pig ; skewer it well, to prevent it from falling out, and then spit it, pre- viously rubbing it over with sweet oil; put it down before a moderate fire to roast for two hours, more or less, accord- ing to its size; when thoroughly done, take off tlie head, and split the pig straight down the back (there must be a dish under ready' to receive it); then dish up the two halves, and splitting the head, lay half at each end of the dish, pour some good strong gravy under it, and serve hot. Or you may take out the stuff- ing, and mix it with some melted butter, and serve it as a sauce ; or sausage-meat may be put inside the pig, instead of the bread and sage. Some persons prefer having the pig baked, instead of toasted, it is equally good either way. Pio {Sucking) to Scald. — The instant the pig is killed, put it for a few minutM into cold water: then pound a little resin extremely fine, .and rub the pig all over with it, and then put it, for half a minute, into a pail of scaldingwater; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull oft' the hair as quickly as possible; if any part docs not come off, put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and afterwards in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remaia. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails; put the liver, heart and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it ihoroiiglily, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep ii Irom the air. Pio {Sucking) Stuffed. — HavingPIG ( 403 ) PIG Ecaldeda pig, singe, and bone it to the head, which leave wliole ; take a pound of calf’s liver, a pound of bacon, mince both these with a little sage, pounded spice, ai-oinatic herbs, salt and pepper: fill the body of the pig with this; also roll in it some large lardons, also lard the limbs and back of the pig; sew in the farce, rub the whole body with lemon, lay in a cloth some sage, and four bay- leaves, cover the back of the pig with slices of bacon, place it in the cloth, and tie it up; put it into a saucepan; pour on it equal quantities of good stock, and white wine, and let it simmer for three hours and a half over a moderate fire; then take it off, and leave it in the sauce- pan ; in an hour’s time take it out, press it carefully, so that the shape may not be spoiled; do not remove the cloth until perfectly cold ; lay a folded napkin on a dish, and serve the pig on it. Pig’s Tails d, la Puree.*—Take half a dozen pig’s tails, leave on the skin, and cut them into pieces about eight inches long ; braise with some lentils, two car- rots, two onions, two cloves, a bay-leaf, stock, or water,and salt; when they are done, finish in the same manner as pig’s ears d la purie. Piq’s Tongues Smoked.*—Take as many pig’s tongues as you please, take out the horny parts, scald them suffi- ciently to enable you to remove the first skin; put them as closely together as you can, into a jar, rubbing each with salt and a little saltpetre, add basil, bay- leaf, thyme, and juniper berries; place something heavy on the top to press them down; fill all the interstices with salt, and cover the jar very close, and set it in a cool place. In a week’s time take out the tongues, drain and tie them in skins like black puddings, and smoke them. When the tongues are required for table, boil them m water, with a little wine, a bunch of parsley, scallions, onions, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil. Serve them cold. PIGEONS.— Pigeons should be ex- tremely fresh ; when so, and in good or- der, they are plump and fat at ilie vent, and their feet pliable; but when they are stale, the vent is open, green, and withered. Tame pigeons are considered preferable to the wild. Pigeons A l’Aurore.*—Vw\. into a pan a good bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, a bay-leaf, salt, pepper, and grated nut- meg, then your pigeons ; set the pan on Uie fire, and brown the birds; then mix in half a spoonful of flour, a ladleful of consomme ; boil it quickly, and add some mushrooms, and an onion stuck with cloves; in about a quarter of an hour take out the birds, reduce the sauce, add two eggs, take out the onion and bay- leaf, and pour it over the pigeons, and let them cool, and then stew them with mushrooms minced and mixed with the sauce; moisten the birds well with the batter, and cover them with bread crumbs, dip them in eggs beaten and seasoned, and bread them again. Fry your pigeons to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Pigeons to Broil.—When thoroughly cleaned, split the backs, pepper and salt them, then broil them very nicely ; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms, in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Pigeons ti la Bru7iswick.*—Take half a dozen small pigeons, which braise be- tween slices of bacon, with a little lemon juice ; roast some truffles on hot ashes, and blanch whole artichoke bottoms in a little stock. Make a farce with veal sweetbreads, fat livers, streaked bacon, breasts of fowl or game, minced, and give these a few turns, with some good stock, the yolks of eggs, and rich cream. Put a layer of this fa7-ce on a dish, then- place the artichoke bottoms, in each of which stick a truffle, and between each a pigeon, and a slice pf veal glazed on the latter; cover the whole with the re- mainder of the farce, and pour over it some veal gravy. Pigeons en Caisses.*—Prepare six pre- viously cooked small pigeons, ina similar way to quails en caisses. Pigeons A la Casserole.*—Truss your pigeons with the feet inwards, and having put some butter into a stewpan, lay in the pigeons, breasts downwards; as soon as it is melted, season them with salt, pepper, and pounded aromatic herbs; set the pan on a brisk fire, turn the birds every ten minutes for the space of half an hour, which will be sufficient to cook them; then put them on a dish. Take three-fourths of the butter from the pan, mix with the remainder a little flour, the juice of a lemon, or two spoonsful of vine- gar and half a glass of water; boil these up twice, and then pour them on the birds. Pigeons in Caul.*—Take some very young pigeons, and having trussed them, split them down the back, and fill them with a good farce; lay a thin slice of bacon over each half, and wrap them in a piece of c.aul, previously soaked in warm water; bread them, and bake in a moderate oven. Pigeons A la Charmante.—Scald half a dozen small pigeons, and braise them with a few slices of bacon and lemon, aPIG 404 PIG bundle of berbs, a proper quantity of stock, pepper and salt. In the mean time lard three or lour sweetbreads, which stew slowly in a little broth, with some thin slices of veal, a bundle of herbs, two cloves, basil, and two or three scal- lions ; as soon as they are done, skim, strain, and reduce the liquor, and glaze the sweetbreads with itj then lay them on a dish alternately with the pigeons, over which pour a sauce made as fol- lows : put a little consomme into the pan with the glaze, stir it round to gather what may adhere to the bottom and sides of the. pan, then strain, and add more pepper and salt if requisite ; squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Take care none of the sauce goes on the sweetbreads, as it would spoil the look of the glaze. Pigeons {Chartreuse of).*—Take a number of carrots and turnips, some of which cut into pieces the size of your linger, some into bits only an inch long, and the remainder (and they ought to be the largest) into farthings, blanch all in a little salt and water; then drain and cook them in some mtsomwie, blanch also some French beans, young peas, let- tuces or cabbages ; when done, press out the water from the latter, drain the rest, and let them cool; then take a circular mould, line it completely with a white paper, well buttered; on the bottom of this place a layer of the carrots and tur- nips (in farthings), the beans and peas, round the sides ot the mould ; place first, the other pieces of carrots and turnips, (properly intermixed^, then the lettuces or cabbages; in tbe centre of this put three pigeons' poeles, cut in pieces. Make a small macedoine with what vege- tables may remain from the above ; mix it with an ullemande,^nA having reduced it, pour it over the birds, so that it will fill up all the interstices and cover the whole with cabbages or lettuces ; keep it hot in the bain-marie ; do not turn it out till the moment it should be sent to table ; drain oH'the water, and glaze it. Pigeons in Chipolata.*—Having pre- pared and trussed your pigeons, place, them in a braising-pan between slices of bacon, with some veal, two carrots, three onions, two bay-leaves, cloves, parsley, scallions, thyme, and a ladleful of stock; simmer them for an hour; then drain and place them on a dish; mask with a chipolata. Pigeons en Compote.*—Truss and tie into proper form, three pigeons ; put a piece of butter into a saucepan, add to it a dessert-spoonful of flour, and make a roux, in which brown some slices of streaky bacon; pour on the. pigeons a ladleful and a half of water, with some parsley, scallions, a bay-leaf, mush- rooms, salt, and pepper, stir it well till it boils, skim it, and when the pigeons are three parts done, put in some small onions, well picked, and previously done up in a little butter and drained. Lay the birds in a dish; garnish with the onions and bacon. Pigeons d la Conti.*—Make a farce with the white meat of fowl or game, bacon, and crumb of bread pounded to- gether, and mixed with yolks of eggs, stuft' your pigeons with this, truss, tie them in slices of bacon, and roast them gently ; lay toasts in the dripping-pan to receive what falls from them ; ssrve the birds on the toasts. Pigeons en Coguilles.*—Take three or four pigeons, put them into a deep dish with some lard, cover them close, and place the dish on hot ashes ; take some scollop-shells, line them with thin slices of bacon, and when the pigeons are done, put one in each of the shells, and cover them with puff-paste, put them into a gentle oven for a quarter of an hour. Pigeons d la Crapaudine.* — Truss your pigeons with the feet inwards, cut them open from the end of the breast to the crop; but do not separate them; flatten the backs, season and broil them. Boil together a dessert-spoonful of shred shalots, three spoonslul of vinegar, half a glass of water, salt and pepper; pour this sauce over the broiled pigeons, and serve them. Pigeons d la Cettillere.*—Put a good bit of butter, the juice of a lemon, salt, and pepper, into a pan, in which give half a dozen pigeons a few turns; let them be browned, then put them into a stewpan between slice.s of bacon, with the above butter, &c. and some poelee. set them on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then drain and serve ihem with a cray-fish betiveen each over a green Hol- landaise. Pigeons d la Fiane.—Cut some pufl- paste into eight pieces, each of which press into a scallop-shell to take the form, and bake tliem; in the mean time braise four pigeons till about half done, then t.ake them out, dip each in a batter, and fry them of a nice colour; and the paste being baked, remove them from the shells, place the pigeons into these paste-shells, and cover every bird with another. Pigeons, Fricassee of.*—Cut sonic young pigeons into quarters, which blanch for a quarter of an hour in warm water, then dry them well, and give them a few turns in some melted butter. Add half a pint of good stock, a little pepper and salt, and when nearly done, halfPIG 405 I PIG I a glass of champagne, a few m9rels dressed in veal gravy ; serve your fricas- ( see very liot. 1 Pigeons. Fricassee of, with Blood.*— I Take tJie blood of as many pigeons as you j may wish to use, squeeze into it a little I lemon-juice, ami set it aside. Prepare ! your birds as above; when nearly done, add some veal gravy, and having mixed two or three yolks of eggs with the blood, j stir it into the fricassee a little at a time. 1 Serve very hot. Pigeons, Fricassee of ^white).—Take (as many pigeons as your dish will require (and cut them or not according to their size), ijut them into a stewpan with a ! good piece of butter, a slice of ham, S chopped mushrooms, a bundle of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, two cloves, and thyme: I when they have soaked about twenty h minutes, add a small quantity of stock, 4 a little salt and whole pepper ; set them [; on a slow fire to simmer, reduce the ii broth, take out the ham and herbs, make S‘‘ a liaison with the yolks of two eggs and some cream, make it quite hot without boiling, add a little lemon-juice, and i serve. The pigeons may be garnished I with sweetbreads, artichoke-bottoms, &c. These, however, must be scalded before they are put to the fricassee. Pigeons au Gratin. — Prepare and scald three or four pigeons, a sweetbread . and two fat livers (also scalded), two or three artichoke-bottoms parboiled, a few mushrooms, a slice of ham, parsley, scallions, thyme, half a clove of garlic, i a bay-leaf, two cloves ; fry these lightly 1 in a proper quantity of butter, then add I gravy, a glass of white wine, a little f stock, whole pepper and salt; let the I whole simmer slowly, and when done, 1 skim it well ; pour half the sauce into a I dish that will bear the heat, and set it f on a brisk fire to form the gratin, then I put the pigeons, &c. and let it stand ; I squeeze a little lemon-juice into the re- mainder of the sauce, and pour it over the whole, and serve. Pigeons, Hotchpotch of. — Take two Or three good sized pigeons, truss and boil I them over a slow fire in some stock with I carrots, parsnip?, celery, small onions (all previously scalded) parsley, shalots, thyme, a bay-leaf, pepper and salt. When done, place the pigeons in a deep dish, with the roots, &c. arranged I around, and serve with a Spanish sauce. Pigeons in Jelly.—VxcV two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible, by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the I heads and the feet on, but the nails must j be clipped close to the claws. Roast tliem of a very nice brown, and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, and with it half-fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the Jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should he done at least four and twenty hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appear- ance in the middle, range of a second course ; or, when served with the jelly roughed large, it malees a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs must be bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. PiGEONS en Macedoine.* — Having thoroughly cleaned four young tame pigeons, put them to soak for a whole day, then beat up a pound of butter with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, with which stuff’ the pigeons; truss, and rub them over with butter and lemon, place them in a steivpan between two slices of bacon,add some consomme. When done, drain and serve them on a macedoine of vegetables. Pigeons Masfuei'uded.— Cut two or three large pigeons in quarters, which braise with a few slices of bacon, and peeled lemon, a little consomme, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a couple of cloves ; take a large eel, and cut it into as many pieces as you have quarters ; split these open, take out the bone, lard the outside with bacon, and boil them in a little veal cullis ; as soon as the fish is done, reduce the cullis, and with it glaze each piece of eel, and having laid the quarters of pigeon on your dish, place a bit of eel on everyone, and serve with any sauce you may think proper. Pigeons with Marrow.—Truss three or four large pigeons for roasting, and stuff them with a farce made of beef-marrow, two anchovies,shalots,parsley, tarragon- leaves (all shred very small), seasoned with pepper and nutmeg, and bound to- gether with the yolks of two eggs. Wrap the birds in slices of bacon and paper, roast and serve tliem with a sauce made as follows :—take a little cullis, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, two slices of peeled lemon, some bruised rocam- boles, salt, and pepper; boil this for twenty or thirty minutes, till of a good consistence, strain, add a little butter, simmer a minute or two, and then pour it into the disli under the pigeons. Pigeons d la Monarque,*—Take sixPIG PIG 406 young pigeons, as near of a size as possi- ble, and having peppered and trussed them properly, heat three quarters of a p jund of butler, to wliich add the juice of two or three lemons and a little salt; put the pigeons into this, give them a few turns, but be careful not to let the birds take the least colour ; in a few minutes take them out, and having completely lined a stewpan with bacon, lay the pigeons in it (the legs towards the centre of the pan), pour in the whole of the but- ter, a glass of white wine, a spoonful of consotimie, add a seasoned bouquet; cover them with slices of bacon, and a round of buttered paper; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen as soon as it boils, and put hot ashes at the top. When suffi- ciently done, drain them and put them into a silver dish over a ragofit d /a Tou- louse ; between each bird a blanched cock’s-comb, and a cray-fish, and on each a veal sweetbread. Pigeons d la Muntmorence.*—Having well cleaned the pigeons, fill them with any good farce you think proper, wrap each in bacon, place them in small moulds exactly their size, cover them very close, and put them in a moderate oven for three hours; then take them out of the moulds, pour some rich cmisomme over, and serve them very hot. Pigeons with Onions.—Cut a dozen large onions into dice, which put into a Btewpan with plenty of butter ; set them on the fire, and keep stirring till they are done; when cold, mix with them the yolks of three eggs, a little grated bacon, two chopped anchovies, a pinch of pound- ed aniseed, salt, and pepper. In the mean time, having braised some pigeons, cover each completely with the above preparation, and then in veal caul, which fix together with white of egg; roll them in bread-crumbs, place them on a dish, pour a few drops of oil or melted butter over, and bake them. Serve them with a sauce composed of cullis and con- somme. Pigeons like Ortolans.*—Cover your pigeons with small slices of bacon, placed like scales, so completely that the feet can barely be seen ; give them a few turns in a sauce d atelets, and then fasten them to a spit, and roast before a clear fire ; a very short time is suffi- cient. Pigeons enPapillotes.*—Your pigeons being ready, cut off’ the feet, and truss them with the legs inw.ards, split them down the back, flatten and season them witli salt, pepper, and pounded aroma- tics ; put into a saucepan a good piece of butter, a quarter of a pound of grated bacon, four dessert spoonsful of oil, and the pigeons; set them on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then take out the pigeons, and put to the butter three des- sert spoonsful of mushrooms, one of sha- lots, and one of parsley (all shred small) salt, and spices, give them a few turns, and pour the sauce over the birds ; have ready some square pieces of paper, oil them, and fold a half pigeon in each piece; about half an hour before dinner, boil them over a slow fiie. Serve with a clear gravy. Pigeons, luith Parmesan.—Take the livers of as many pigeons as you intend to dress, mince them with grated bacon, chopped mushrooms,shalotsand parsley; mix them together, stulf the birds with it, and put them in a stewpan, with some slices of veal; cover them with bacon ; add a few spoonsful of broth ; set them on a slow fire to simmer. When done, take out the pigeons, and put in a jittle cullis; give it a boil, and then strain it. Put some of this sauce into a dish for table ; grate Parmesan cheese into it, and then put in the birds, set the dish on hot ashes ; pour more sauce, grate cheese j over, and colour it with a salamander. Pigeons Pickled.—Bone them ; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; then turn them again, and tie ine neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water; let them boil a minute or two to plump: after this, take them out, and thoroughly dry them; then put them into a pickle, which should be made of equal quantities of white wine, and white wine vinegar, with white pepper j and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, | and a few bay-leaves. When it boils up, j put the pigeons into it. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to do them ; but if they are large they will require twenty minutes. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. As soon as the pickle is cold, take off the fat, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, lied down closely, so that I the air may be excluded. _ : Instead of larding, put into it some [ stuffing, made of liard yolks of eggs and f marrow, in equal quantities, with sweet f lierbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Pigeon Pie.—Chop some parsley and lemon-thyme, with a few mushrooms; stew these in a little butter, into which put half a dozen young pigeons, with pepper and salt in their insides, and their , legs turned in ; stew them for a few minutes and turn them; when they be- gin to fry, put in sufficient consommi to cover them, in which let theni stew till they ate well done ; take them from the fire to cool; in the meantime make a407 ) PIG P I G goed puff paste, part of which roll out, and place round the edge of a dish ; lay the pigeons in with the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard, and pour over them half of the liquor they were stewed in ; add a little pepiDer and salt, then lay on the top paste, trimming it neatly round, the same as you would any other pie ; on the lop form a star of leaves, with a hole in the centre; egg it lightly over, and put it to bake in a moderate oven, taking care that it has not too much colour; I when done, add to the liquor that re- I mained from the pigeons, a little butter i sauce, make it very hot, and pour it on I the pie. Serve it hot, eilher for a re- i move or side dish. ' Pir.EONs Potted.—Be very particular j that they are quite fresh; clean them il thoroughly, and season them with salt I and pepper; lay them close together in i a small deep pan, for the smaller the i| surface, and the more closely they are •j packed, the less quantity of butter will rj be required; cover them with butter, I then tie them over with very thick paper, and bake them. When cnld, put them to dry in pots that will hold two or three in each, and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are done for keeping. The pigeons would lie closer, and want less butter, if they were boned, and put into the pot in an oval form. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and they will eat extremely well. If a high seasoning is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little cayenne pepper, before baking. Pigeons, en Poularde.*—Choose as large pigeons as you can, which fill with a good farce, mixed with rich cream ; tiuss them like fowls, lard with bacon, and wrap each in caul ; fasten them on a spit, and roast them ; take care they are not too highly coloured. Serve with any sauce you please. Pigeons, d la Proven<}ale.*—Lard your pigeons with pieces of anchovies; put some olive oil into a pan, and when it boils, give tlie birds a few turns in it over a slow fire, with two dozen small onions, a clove of garlic, and a bunch of chervil; moisten them with equal quan- tities of stock and white wine, and leave it to hoil slowly, when nearly done, add five or six small sausages, and some lemon-juice. Skim off' all the fat, and serve very hot. Pigeons to Roast.—Let the pigeons be thoroughly cleaned, leave in the livers, truss them, and put a stulling into the crops, the same as for fillet of veal ; put them down to roast, and singe them well; about a quarter of an hour will b« suflicient to do them ; froth them with butter; serve them garnished with water- cresses, good gravy under them, and parsley and butter in a boat. Pigeons, with Roots.* — Braise your chickens ns directed for chipolata. Serve them with glazed lettuces round, and petites racines in the centre. Pigeons, Salmi of.*—Cut up three or four cold roasted pigeons, and put them into a stewpan, with a little veal and ham, five or six carrots, and an old par- tridge ; let them stand on a slow fire till they stick to the pan; then moisten them with Champagne, good consomme, veal gravy, a bay-leaf, salt and pepper, cover it close, and reduce it. When done (and a short time is suflicient), serye it very hot with truffles, morels, sliced lemons, and, if you like it, a few larks. Pigeons, aw Sang.*—'I'ake the rem- nants of any kind of game you may have, mince the tenderrst parts with some streaky bacon, parsley, salt, spices, and a little lard ; line a small stewpan with thin slices of bacon, lay X.\\e farce on this, thicken it with some stock, and the blood of as many pigeons as you intend to dress; when it is of the proper consis- tence, cover the pigeons with itaiid slices of bacon ; set them on the fire, and as soon as they are done, dish the birds, and pour the sauce over them. Pigeon Soup. — Take three plump pigeons, truss them as for boiling ; run a skewer through the head and neck, to keep it upright; then scald and boil them in broth and veal gravy, to whicli add roots and herbs, cut into small pieces as for potage d la Julienne ; sea- son the whole well, and stew it over a slow fire. When done, pour the soup into a tureen, and place the pigeons in with the heads upwards, as if swimming. Pigeons Stewed. — Make a stuffing witli livers, parboiled and bruised, a bi.t of butter, a few bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet herbs, chopped, and yolk of egg ; fill the pigeons, tie them at each end, half roast, or fry them, pul them into some good gravy, or beef broth, with an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet tierbs, a slice of lemon ; let them stew very gently till tender ; strain the sauce, skim off'the fat; put to it pickled musiirnottis, cay- enne, forcemeat bails, liard yolks of eggs. The pigeons may he larded. Pigeons Stuffed.*—Make a farce with any remnants of fowl you may liappen to liave, some veal sweetbreads, truffles (all chopped small) pounded bacon, salt, pepper, and yolks of eggs: fill the pigeons with this, put them into a pan in some( 408 ) PIG PIG melted butter; in a fiunrterof an liour cover tlie pan close, and let them stand till done, turning them occasionally. Pigeons, Timbale of.—Take as many young pigeons as you intend to have tim- bales, and give them a few turns with any materials you please. Make a paste with flour, beef suet (sliced small), yolks of eggs, salt and water, keep it rather firm; line your moulds (having buttered them well) with this, and put a pigeon in each, cover them with paste, and bake them ; when done, make a small hole in the top of every one, through which, pour some veal gravy ; serve them hot. Pigeons {Timbale of) au Fumet.— Make a farce with the meat of a hare or rabbit that is very high ; some ham, call’s udder, truffles, or mushrooms, scallions, shalots(all shredsmall), grated bacon, spices, and yolks of eggs. Line a timbale mould completely, with thin slices of bacon, on which layabout three- fourths of the above farce ; make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a cold ra- goCtt of pigeons, put the remainder of the farce over, and cover the whole with slices of bacon, and bake it. When done, take oir the bacon, diain away the fat, and having turned it over, make a little hole in the top, into which pour any sauce you may think proper, adding to it a little lemon-juice, and serve. Pigeons e}i Torfite.* — Take half a dozen very small pigeons, pick and scald them ; leave on the pinions, claws, and heads ; but cut ofT the bills. Take as many short and very thick cucumbers, make a hole in tlie end of each, through which scoop out all the inside, and liav- ing blanched them about five minutes, put a pigeon into each cucumber; have the head, &c. about an inch beyond the cucumber, so as to resemble a turtle. Have the same of slices of fillet of veal (previously soaked in a marinade), on each of which, place a pigeon ; put these between slices of bacon on a stewpan ; dilute them with veal gravy, and stew them gently ; when done, take them out carefully, and serve on the veal. Pigeons to Truss.—Pigeons arc drawn in the same manner as fowls, except that the livers should be left in, as a pigeon has no gall; skewer them the same as fowls, [with stufflng, as for fillet of veal, ■put where the ciop was taken out. Pigeons, tl la Venitienne.* — Choose two small fat pipeons, and h.aving trussed them, tie them into an oval form, place them in a stewpan on slices of liacon, with sweet herbs, morels, artichoke bottoms, and sweetbreads (all minced), a little butter, equal quantities of stock and white wine, veal gravy, and a small piece of garlic tied in a bit of cloth ; let these simmer over a slow fire till suffi- ciently done ; then take oil all the fat, and serve the pigeons with all the above ingredients. Pigeons {Cutlets of) d VArviugnac.* — Take the breasts of half a dozen pigeons, mince, and then pound them ; pound also an equal quantity of calPs udder, and a rather less proportion «f panada, adding to the latter mushrooms, shalots and parsley, and other herbs; all being well nounded separately, beat them up together, adding two eggs to bind it. Butter a baking-tin, and spread the farce all over it, about an inch in thickness; when quite cold, cut it into the form of cut'ets, without, however, detaching it from the tin, which place on a stove to warm the butter. Take as many pinion bones as you have cutlets, scrape them well, and stick one into the end of each cutlet, dip them first in beaten eggs, and then in bread crumbs ; f fry them slowly. Dish them in miroton, t with fried parsley in the centre. Pigeons (Cutlets of) a la Boiirgeoise.* I —Divide your pigeons in halves, from j the neck to the rump ; turn the foot t inwards, so that it may appear like the bone of a chop; season them with salt I and pepper, and dip each, first in melted [ butter, and then in bread crumbs ; broil | them slowly, and serve them with a clear li gravy or shalot sauce. ' PiOEONS {fFild) a VEtoujfade.* — e Take three wild pigeons, and lard with bacon, rolled in salt, pepper, parsley. |i shalots, basil, (all shred fine), spices ana i aromatic herbs ; then put the birds into i a stewpan between slices of bacon ; add : a thin one of ham, two onions stuck with two cloves, a carrot sliced, a seasoned bouquet, a glass of white wine, and a little consomme; let them be thoroughly done, i then dish them ; strain the sauce over, | and serve them. _ ; Pigeons {IVild) en Marinade.*—Your |i pigeons being ready for dressing, cut • them in halve.s or quarters, soak them in a light marinade; when they have lain in this for some time, drain, and dip them in baiter, fry them of a nice colour, I and serve them with fried parsley. Pigeons {/Fild) Pof.U.s.*—Take th^ or four wild pigeons, truss them with their feet inwards ; line a stewpan with slices of bacon, a thin one of ham, a sea- soned bouquet, two onions stuck with cloves, a carrot cut iu slices, a glass of wliite wine, and a little co««o;mw<‘; put in the pigeons, cover with bacon, and set I the whole on a brisk firej as soon as it boils, place it in a stove with a modenatfr I fire under and over, and let them stand (409 ) P / N P I N three quarters of an hour; then drain and serve ttiem with n poiwraile. Pigeon (//'oo(/).—The wood pigeon is large, and tlie flesh of a dark colour; they are cliosen by tlie same rules as the tame pigeon. If tlie wood pigeon is pro- perly kept, and not over roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. They should be served with a good gravy. PINE Apple Chips—Vare and trim a pine-apple, divide, and slice each half into pieces a quarter of an inch thick; take half the weiglitof the fruit in powder sugar: lay the slices in a basin, with sugar strewed between ; let it stand till the sugar be dissolved, then set it on a moderate fire to simmer till the chips be uite clear, when set it by. The next ay remove all the syrup from the slices, place them on glasses, and dry them in a gentle oven. Pine Apple in a Compote.—Turn off the rind of a pine, cut it in slices, but not too thin ; have some sugar on the fire in a sugar-pan, into which put the slices of pine, and let them boil gently till the syrup is tolerably thick, then take out the pine, and lay it on a dish ; mix with the sugar, the j uice of a couple of lemons, and pour it over the pine. Pine Apple Fromage Bavarois. • — Pare, and cut a pine apple into small pieces, which boil in half a pound of clari- fied sugar, and when the fruit is reduced to a pulp, rub it through a sieve, add the isinglass, and proceed as directed. (See Fromage Bavaroise). Pine Apple Ice.*—Put into a pan a pound of clarified sugar, boiled to petit iisse, in which lay afine fresh pine-apple, nicely trimmed; let it remain three hours, then add the juice of two lemons ; strain this preparation through a bolting, pressing it with a wooden spoon, that as much of the pulp may be rubbed through with it as possible ; add a glass of water, and freeze as usual. (See Ice). Pine Apple ,/e/fy.*—Pare, and cut a fine ripe pine into quarters, trim each quarter of a round and long form ; take a pound of clarified sugar, boil it to lisse, add a pint of cold water, let it boil, skim. In and then put in the pine; when it has Ic boiled ten minutes, take out the round M pieces, and put them aside, leaving the k rest twenty minutes longer; then strain k the liqnor through a tammy, with the ii juice of three lemons, (also strained), |l and two ounces of clarified isinglass. Pour some of this jelly in a mould, cut the pine into small pieces, arrange them I on it, and when set, nouron more jelly, I then more pieces, anti more jelly, and so I on, till the mould is full. I ViUE Apple Jell!/.—Puta pound of clari- 1 lied sugar, boiled to the smooth degiee, and nearlyapint i f cold wab r together on the fire; take a good ripe pine, pare off the rind, cut it into four quarters, and trim each quarter into round and long pieces; as soon as the sugar begins to boil, and has been skimmed, put in the pine; when it has boiled about ten mi- nutes, take out the round pieces, kiy them on a plate, and let the other pieces remain to boil twenty minutes longer. Take the rind off three lemons, squeeze the juice through a silk sieve into a basin, and when the pine has boiled enough, pour the liquor through a sieve to it, with two ounces of clarified isinglass. Put a little jelly in the mould first, then cut the pieces of pine into small round bits; when that is set, put more jelly, then more pine, and so continue till the mould is full. TiveApple Transparent Jelly.*—Take a fine ripe, but perfectly sound pine- apple, cut it into small pieces, which throw into boiling syrup ; when the fruit has had a few boils, take it from the fire ; and as soon as it becomes cool, strain it: add a sufficient quantity of caramel, to give it a yellow tinge, then the juice of two lemons, the isinglass, and finish as usual. (See Clear Frtiit Jelly). Vive Apple {Green) Preserved.-Choo%E a good-shaped pine, and having let it soak five or six days in salt and water, put it into a saucepan with vine-leaves over and under it; fill the saucepan ivith the salt and water, and let it stand on a slow fire till the fruit becomes green, then put it into a jar, and cover it with a thin cool syrup. I'he next day, drain off' the sy- rup, give it a boil, and then pour it over the pine-apple again, with great care; leave it thus for two months, after which make a rich syrup with two or three pounds of sugar; add a little ginger, boil and skim it well, and when nearly cold, pouritover the pine (previously drained); tie the jar over tight to exclude the air. PINKS, Fromage Bavarois * — Take two ounces of pink flowers (the small red sweet scentetl ones), throw them into half a pound of clarified sugar (boiling) with ten cloves (bru'sed), and a pinch of cochineal; cover the infusion, and before it is quite cold, strain, and add to it six drachms of clarified isinglass; stir and ice it as usual j put the cream to it when it begins to tlncfcen, and finisli as direct- ed. (See Fromage Bavarois ) Pinks, Ratafia of.*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, a quart of clear river water, three pounds of sugar, two pounds of red pink flowers, and adrachm of cloves. Remove all the inferior parts of the flowers, and infuse the rest with 2N410 P I s P I s tlie cloves in the brandy for two months, when strain it througti a linen cloth ; dis- solve the sugar in the water, tlien mix it with the brandy ; filter and bottle it. PIPER, Baked.* — The fish, when thoroughly emptied and cleaned, is stall- ed with the 8araeingredients,and dressed like baked jack or pike. Pipers, io Dress.—They may be baked or tioiled with a pudding well seasoned. If they are baked, a large cupful of rich broth should be put into the dish, and when done, take the broth, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them together for sauce. PiTEn {Fillets of) d la Sefton.—Take the flesli from a large piper, and cut into slices, all the same shape ; put these into a pan with clarified butter, pepper, and salt; fry them lightly, and when done, serve them ; make a sauce as follows:— put four spoonsful of the best vinegar, a small quantity of tarragon, and twenty peppercorns into a stewpan, set it on the lire, and let it stand till reduced to a fourth ; then add two spoonsful of con- somme, six of sauce tournee, and reduce these also over a large lire; strain and replace it; when it boils put in the yolks of twoeggs, a bit of butter, and stir it well ; pour this over the fillets of piper when sent to table. This sauce must be quite white; but if, by any chance, it should be browned, add a small quantity of cream. Season with salt and cayenne. PISTACHIO Blancmange.*—Blanch four ounces of pistachios, pound them with half an ounce of preserved cedrat, dilute the paste with a glass of water, and then extract the milk by squeezing it very tight in a napkin ; mix with the milk six ounces of powder-sugar, and an ounce of isinglass. Take a pound of sweet almonds, pound them to a fine paste, which dilute with three glasses of water, extract the milk as above ; divide this into two parts, putting to one part the pistachio milk, and a small quantity of spinach essence ; and to the other, six ounces of sugar dissolved in a glass of ■warm water, and half an ounce of i^in- plass, and finish it according to the di- rections for T'iolet Jelly. Pistachio Biscottes.*—Mix together in a pan a quarter of a pound of powder- sugar, the same of flour, well dried and sifted, and the, yolks of five eggs; bent them for ten minutes, add two ounces of whole pistachios, and then spread it on a buttered baking-tin ten inches long and five wide; lay it of an equal thick- ness, strew over two ounces of pistachios, cut crosswise ; put this in n gentle oven for forty or fitly minutes; then take it out, and cut it into pieces, two inches and three eighths long, and half an inch wide; replace them in the oven to dry. Almonds or filberts may he used instead. Pistachio —Take a pound of pistachio nuts, two ouncesof sweet al- monds, the whites of sixteen, and yolks of eight eggs, two ounces of flour, and a pound of powder-sugar. Blanch and pound the pistachios and almonds, moist- ening occasionally with white of egg; beat the whites and yolks separately, with the latter half the sugar, and some grated lemon-peel; when both are thoroughly beaten join them together, beating con- stantly, and as you do so, sift over them the flour and remainder of the sugar, then the almonds and pistachios. Have some paper cases ready, into which pour your preparation ; glaze, and bake the biscuits in a moderately heated oven. ViSTAcn\oBiscuils,SovJJlies.*--)i\a.rc\\ a quarter of a poundof pistachios, halfof which cut in slices, and the other half mince small. Whip the whites of three eggs very firm, and then mix with them the sliced pistachios and half a pound of sifted sugar; have,ready a number of small paper cases about an inch square; put your preparation into them, taking care they are not more than half full, sprinkle powder-sugar over, and as soon as that is dissolved,strew the minced pis- tachios, and put them in a gentle oven, and colour them of a reddish yellow. Pistachio Cnnnellons.* — Peel six ounces of pistachio.s, and six bitter al- monds, and pound them, with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and a little white of egg, to a fine paste, to which add a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar to make it tolerably firm. Roll this paste on a sheet of pa;ier to about tlie size of your finger, cut it into pieces two inches long, dip them into batter, and fry your can- nellonsXo a nice colour, drain and sprinkle them with powder-sugar, and serve them. Pistachio Cream an Bain-riiarie *— Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, pound them with an ounce of preserved cedrat, and eight hitler almonds; when reduced to a fine paste, put it into six glasses of boiling miik; cover tl.c infu- sion, but before it is quite cold squeeze the milk through a cloth. Mix in a pan ten ounces of powder-sugar with aspoon- ful of spinach essence strained ; ihen add a whole egg, ten yolks, and .a g'aincf salt; pour the infusion to this, a little at a time, stir it well, run it tlirough a sieve, and finish according to rule, (tire Cream an Bain marie.) Pistachio Cream 7cc.*—Blanch .and wash half a pound of pistachios, and wh>-n perfectly dry. imund them to a fine paste wi th alittlccrcam and lemon-i>ecl; put IhiaPis ( 411 ) Pis paste into a skillet with the yolks of nine [1 Cifgs, anti till ee quarters of a pound of i| pmvder-sugai’j s-tir it in well, and add, by ii degrees, a quart of cream, and set it on a slow lire to simmer gently, and when B sufficiently done, colour it with a little splnacN green; then strain it, and when cold, ice it in the usual^way. Pistachio Cream Patissiire*—Peel a I quarter of a pound of pistachios, wash, I and then pound them with an ounce of |( preserved cedrat, and ten bitteralmonds ; [ with this paste mix two spoonsfiils of spi- nach essence strained, six ounces of powder-sugar, four of filbert, or other macaroons, and the cream properly pre- pared (see Cream Pdiissiere)\ heat it all I' up together, and finish as directed. I Pistachio, TVhipped Cream.* — Your : cream being whipped as usual (seeTVhip- i| peJ Cream), mix with it six ounces of powder-sugar, two spoonsful of double '! rose or orange-flower water, dress your :! cream iu a pyramidal form, and having I peeled a quarter of a pound of pistachios, ii cut them in pieces, lengthwise, and stick them lightly on the surface of your pyra- : mid. ' ■ Pistachios, Fromage Bavarois of.*— |i Peel a quarter of a pound of pistachios, [J and being well washed and drained, |j pound them witli an ounce of preserved i| cedrat, or the rind of a lemon rasped on !) sugar, and eight bitteralmonds blanched; h wlien these are reduced to a fine paste, add to it two glasses of hot milk, and half a pound of powder-sugar; let tliis stand li for about half an hour, then strain and ' add to it six drachms of isinglass, and a I sufficient quantity of spinacli essence to I make it of a delicate green colour ; put I your preparation into a vessel set on ice, il and when it begins to tliickeiij mi.x a i' whipped cream with it and finish it. (See ; Fromage Bavarois.) Pistachios Glacees, d la Royale.*— Peel tliree ounces of pistachios, di y them I; n little at the moutli of the oven; when li cold, glaze and finish them in the same I* mannerasfilherts,andalmonds. (See the : recipes.l These however should be grouped in sixes and eights. Pistachios, Gateau of.*—Set half a pint of milk on ijie fire, and mix with it I a sufficient quantity of flour to make il tlie consistence of thick cream; when done, add to it a quarter of a pound of pistachios, the same of sweet almonds, both blanched and pounded to a fine paste, a pinch of dried orange-flowers, tliree quarters of a pound of powder- sugar, four whole eggs, put in one at a time, the yolks of six, and a quarter of I a pound of melted butter; stir all these ingredients well, and having whipped the six whites, add them lightly, colour it with a little spinach green, and pour the whole preparation into a well buttered mould ; put it into a hot oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour, then draw it out, turn it on a dish, and serve. Pistachio, small Gdleuu.x.* — Make three quarters of a pound of puff-paste, to whicli give ten turns, and roll it into two layers, each thirteen inches long, and eight wide, put one of these on a baking-tin (previously wetted) spread over it, of an equal thickness, a cold pis- tachio cream to within three quarters of an inch of the edges, moisten iliem, and cover the cream wiih the other layer; press the two layers together, dorez the top lightly, and with the point ol a knife mark on it seven lines, each two and a quarter inches apart; across these, mark five tines, three inches apart, wliicli will make twenty-four cakes; put it into a brisk oven, but do not glaze till the un- der side of the paste is of a clear yellow. Wlien cold, divide the cakes according to the lines, and trim them neatly. If you wish to have these gateaux still more delicate, strew over them, before they are baked, either almonds or filberts, blanched and cliopped small, and mixed with sugar and white of egg. Pistachio Ice.*—Take three pints of milk and one pint of cream, lialf a pound of pistachios, which blanch and pound to a fine paste, adding milk to them occa- sionally to prevent their oiling; when well pounded, dilute the paste with half the remaining portion of the milk, and squeeze it through a cloth, wringing as light as possible. Pul a saucepan on the fire, in which is the cream and the rest of the milk, a pound of sugar and the rind of a lemon grated ; stir tliese ingre- dients over the fire till tolerably thick ; then add the pistachio milk, give the whole one boil, and strain it. tVlien quite Cold, colourit with spinach essence, and freeze it as directed. (See Ice.) Pistachio March]mne.*—V\x\. a pound and a half of pistachios into a mortar, pound them, moistening with white of egg, to a very fine paste ; in tlie mean- time clarify the same quantity of sugar, boil it to petit bonle ; tlien take the pan from the fire, put in the pistachios, stir them together well, replace the pan on hot ashes, continually stirring, till the paste is of a proper consistence, then pour it on a slab well sprinkled with sugar; as soon as it is cold, cut it into wliatever forms your fancy may dictate. Pistachio Meringues.*—a quar- ter of a pound of pistachio nuts, three ounces of powder-sugar, and the whiles of six eggs; blanch tlie pistachios, and 2 N 2412 ) pro P I s liaving diied them tlioroughly in a stove or oven, pound tliem with wliite of egg to a very smooth paste. Beat up tlie wliites of eggs, add the sugar, and set them on hot aslies for a short lime, re- moving the pan occasionally, and stirring constantly; then add the pounded pista- chios, and wiien the whole is thorouglily incorporated, put some sheets of paper on tin plates, and lay the meringues with a spoon, half an inch apart; sprinkle very finely sifted sugar over, and bake them in a cool oven; when done, raise them from the paper with a knife, place them on sieves in a stove, to preserve them dry. Pistachio Petits Fours.*— Put into a pan half a pound of powder-sugar, half the white of a large egg, and a sufficient quantity of spinach essence strained, to tinge the glaze of a delicate green : add a few drops of essence of lemon, and beat up the whole for a few minutes, when the glaze will be tolerably firm, but smooth ; roll it in slips abofit the thickness of a litile finger; cut these into dice, which roll in the hollow of your hand, taking care to moisten them sufficiently to make their surface clear and shining; place them on a sheet of thick paper, three quarters of an inch apart, and put them in the even. Pistachio Petits Pots.*—Have ready ten small moulds; take a sufficient quan- tity of cream to fill them, and put it into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; give it a boil, and then, having blanched and pounded a quarter of a pound of pistachios to a fine paste, pour the cream on it, hoil them together once, and let them get cold. Put four yolks, and one whole egg into a saucepan, put the cold cream to it, mix them together, and when it has boiled once, pour it into the moulds, which place in the bain-marie to set. Pistachios Souffle, Frutiqaise of.*— Take half a pound of pistachios, two ounces of preserved cedrat, and two drachms of bitter almonds blanched; pound these well; infuse them_ in nine glasses of boiling milk for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then strain it through a napkin into the usual prepara- tion. Just before the whites of egys are put in, add to the whole a sufficient quantity of spinach essence, to tinge it of a delicate green ; finish .as usual. (See Muffle Frunqaise). Glaze with powder- sugar only. Pistachio 2'oi<rfe *—RIix the yolks of four eggs with some rice-llower, dried orange-llowers chopped, cream and su- gar : set these on the fire, stirring con- stantly ; in half an hour take it oil, add four ounces of pounded pistachios, and , a little preserved lemon-peel; |iut this | preparation into a raised rich pull-paste, ] and lay over it a kind of tiellis work, or | any other kind of ornament with paste, i and colour it lightly in the oven. Pistachio fVufers.*—Dilute half a I pound o{ brioche paste with half a glass j of Madeira wine, and then stir into it ' three ounces of powder-sngar, and two ounces of dry currants: spread this pre- paration over a well buttered tin to the i thickness of half an inch, and put it in a brisk oven for a quarter of an hour; when done, cut it in pieces two inches square | glaze, and cover them lightly with minced pistachios. PLAICE, an excellent way to dress a large one.— Sprinkle it well with salt, and keep it for four and twenty hours; , then wash it, and wipe it dry, do it over with egg, and then with breadcrumbs; then make boiling hot some lard, with two large spoonsful of vinegar; lay in the fish, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley and anchovy sauce. You may, if you choose, instead of putting vinegar into the pan previously, dip the fish in vine- gar. Plaice, with Dutch SaMce.—Prepare the plaice in exactly the same manner as soles, with mushrooms; when well drained from the liquor, lay them on a dish, and pour over them a Dutch sauce. Plaice d I’Espagnole.—Prepare it the same as for Dutch sauce, only, instead of pouring over it a Dutch sauce, it must be a good strong sauce d I’espagnote, with more lemon-juice than usual; a few mushrooms added would be a great im- provement. PLOVERS, to Choose.—ChoQ&e them by the hardness of the vent, which shews that they are fat; and when new, they are limber footed. In other respects, ctioose them by the same marks as other fowls. There are three sons; the grey, green, and bastard pl.iver or lapwing. Ploveus Boiled.— They should be boiled in a good celery sauce, white or brown; or they may he roasted like any other fowl, witii good gravy in the dish. Plovers (Capilotade o/).*—Take three or four cold roasted plovers, cut them in halves, skin and trim them ; put them into a stewpan, with some Italicnne, a glass of white wine, and seasoning to the palate. Set them on the fire, and when they have simmered an hour, dish them, with slices of fried bread between. Skim the liquor, add the juice of a lemon, and pour it over the birds. Plovers, to Dress.— Green plovers should be uressed the same as woodcocks.413) PLU PLU }i without drawing, and served on a toast. (; Grey plovers should be stewed.—Make ( a forcemeat with the yolks of two hard ; eggs bruised, some marrow cut fine, arli- i choke bottoms cut small, and sweet fl herbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and d nutmeg: stuff the birds, and put them j into a saucepan, with just a sufiicient j quantity of good gravy to cover them, 1 one glass of white wine, 'and a blade of mace; cover them close, and let them ! stew very gently till they are tender; I then take up the plovers, lay them in a i dish, keep them hot; put a piece of but- ' ter rolled in flour, to thicken the sauce, : let it boil till smooth ; squeeze into it a ;; little lemon; skim it, and pour it over h the plovers. |i ■ Plovers au Gratin.* — Pick, clean, ^ and singe four plovers ; make a farce |i with their intestines, (except the giz- II zard), minced, and mixed with half the .1 quantity of grated bacon, a little shred || parsley and shalots, salt and pepper, fill the plovers with this; lay a gratin (see r that article) on your dish to about the ii thickness of an inch, place the plovers on . it, and fill the spaces betvveen them with I the same ; raise the gratin round, but II take care not to cover the breast with it; ;i lay slices of bacon over the whole, and : set it over a moderate fire, with rather a [ brisk one at the top ; when done, drain 1 off all the fat, and serve them with an 1 Italienne. Plovers d la Perigueux.*—Put four plovers into a stewpan, with a dozen i' whole truffles, (skinned), a bouquet^ some Ii basil, salt and pepper; give tliem a few turns in a little butter, and then add a glass of champagne, and six ladiesful of il reduced espagnole \ skim it well, and when done, take out the birds and truffles, place them on a dish, the truffles n at the top; reditce the sauce, add the I juice of a lemon, and serve it. Plovers Rousted.*—Makea/«rcewith I the intestines of four plovers, as directed I for plovers au grating stuff the birds j with this farce, sew it in, and fasten I them on skewers; cover them with slices I of bacon, and wrap them in paper; fix ' the skewers to a spit, and roast the birds. When quite done, unfasten and dish them. Serve with a ragoQt of truflles I poured over them. Plover’s Eggs—Boil them ten ml- I nules, and serve them on a napkin either I hot or cold. PLUMS, in Brandy.*—Take twelve ( pounds of fine magnum honum plums, i and three pounds of sugar ; the fruit il should be turned in colour, but not ripe; : prick, and put them into a saucepan t with cold water, set them on the fire ; when the water boils and the plums rise, take them out carefully with a skimmer and put them into a pan of cold waterj clarify and boil the sugar to petit lisse, put the plums to it, and give them a boil; the two succeeding days, dram on and boil the syrup, first alone, and after- wards with the fruit; the third day drain the jdums, and put them into bottles ; then boil the syrup to la nappe, and when cold, add to it three-fourths of its quantity of tlie best brandy, stir it well, strain and pour the mixture over the plums. Cork the bottles tight. Green- gage plums are done like apricots. (See Apricots in Brandy.) Plums Candied.—Choose your fruit of a nice shape and good size; cut them in halves, lay them on a large shallow dish, strew powder-sugar over, and put them into a moderate _ oven, tightly closed ; in half an hour’s time, take them out, and place the plums one by one on glass plates to dry. Plums, Clear Cakes of.—Fill ajar with the white pear plums, set it in a sauce- pan of boiling water on the fire j when sufficiently done, let the clear juice, run from it, and to every pint of it, add an equal quantity of sugar, boiled to candy height; put the juice to the syrup, set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till the whole is quite hot, but not boiling ; then pour it into glasses, and dry the cakes in a stove. Plum Cream.—This is made in the same manner as peach-cream, and made with the magnum honum; the other kinds will do, but the first-mentioned is best. Plums Fromage, Bavarois.* — Take the stones from an hundred small, or thirty-six large plums, make a marma- lade of them With half a pound of clari- fied sugar; rub it through a fine sieve, mix the isinglass in, and proceed as usual. (See Fromage Bavarois.) Plums with Almonds, Gimhlettes of.*— These are made in the same manner as other gimhlettes; Peach Gim- hlettes), only that plum-marmalade and sweet almonds, blanched, are used in- stead of peach-marmalade and pistachios. Plums in Jolly.—When the plums are preserved in their first sugar, drain and strain the syrup through a jelly-bag. Take some ripe plums and codlins, put them into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them ; set them on tlie (ire, and when quite soft, press out the juice and str.ain it, and for every pint of juice, boil a pound of sugar to souffle; boil the juice a little, then add the syrup, and plums, and boil all to- gether. Take it ofl', and when it has 2 N 3 .P 0 I P LU 414 Bcttled a little, skim and pour it into glasses. A little scraped ginger, soaked in water for two or three days, and boiled with ihe above, imparts a fine fla- vour to the jelly. Plums, Marmalade of.* — Take six pounds of plums, and four pounds of sugar; stone, and put the fruit into a cullender, beat it through with a wooden pestle into a preserving-pan, which set on the fire, to dry the pulp, stirring it constantly. In the mean time, clarify and boil the sugar to petit casse, then ini.x it with the fruit (still on the fire), stir it till the whole is of the consistence of jelly, then take it off, and pour the marmalade into pots. If the plums are not quite ripe, they must be boiled once or twice before tliey are pressed through the cullender. Some of the kernels may be added, if ap- proved ; they should be pounded before putting in the marmalade. Plums {to pickle like Olives.)—Take the plums before they are quite ripe,and put them into a saucepan with white wine vinegar, salt, water-fennel seed, and dill, as m\ich of each as will impart a flavour to the pickle ; when it boils put in the pluins, let it boil again, then take it off; let it stand till cold, then put them into jars. Plum-J3?«(Zs to Pickle.—Gather some plum-buds, and put them into boiling salt and water; when they have boiled, before they are tender, take them out, drain the water from them, when cold add some white-wine vinegar, two or three blades of mace, and a little whole pepper; put these into the pickle and leave it; in about eight or nine days, boil them again a few times, taking care not to let them get soft; when cold, put the whole into jars, and tie them down. Plums Preserved {Dry).—Gather the plums when full grown and just turning colour, prick and put them into a sauce- pan of cold water, set them on the fire until the water is on the point of boiling ; then take them out, drain and boil them well in some clarified sugar, let them settle, and then boil them again ; if they shrink and will not take the sugar, prick them as they lay in the pan, and then give them another boil, skim and set them by ttie next day, add some more sugar, boiled to soaffle., to the fruit, and syrup, then do them together; place them in a stove till next day, when drain the plums from the syrup, sprinkle a little powder-sugar over, and dry them in a stove. Plums, Preserved Liquid.*— Gather the plums green, firm, and when the stone may be extracted with ease, cut the stalks close, and prick the fruit in several places,especially round the stalk; then place them in a saucepan of water over the fire, and as soon as the water is ready to boil, take the saucepan from the fire ; in four-and-twenty hours, re- place the plums in the same water on a gentle fire, with a small quantity of ver- juice to preserve their colour. Keep the water hot, without allowing it to boil, for three hours, stirring it occasionally ; when the fruit is perfectly green, in- crease the heat till the plums rise to the surface, when they must be taken out and thrown into cold water, which change frequently till the plums are per- fectly cold, then drain them. Put the fruit in some sugar boiled to la najpe, boil them up a few times, adding a little water ; skim, and then pour the whole into a pan ; the next two days, drain off the syrup, and increase the degree of boiling each day ; the third and fourth days, boil the fruit with the syrup, keep- ing them covered, and increasing the degree, until the last time, it readies to perle. Put the preserve into pots, and place them for two days in a stove. i The same fruit may be preserved dry also. The operation is the same, but the syrup is drained off, and the plums laid on tin plates before they are put into the stove. Plum Pudding.*—CvX the crumb of a penny loaf into slices, pour over them a sufficient quantity oi boiling milk to soak them; when quite soft, beat the bread up with half a pound of clarified suet, half a pound of raisins stoned, half a pound of currants, sugar to the taste, five eggs, well beaten, candied-orange, lemon, and citron, and a few bitter al- monds, pounded ; mix the ingredients thoroughly, add a cup of brandy, pour it into a dish, and balte it. IVhon done, turn it out, and strew powder-sugar over. I These ingredients make ns good a pud- ■ ding, boiled. Take care to flour well the cloth, or mould, used for this pur- I pose. Few things require more boiling | than a plum-pudding ; be careful, tliere- ' fore, to let it be sufliciently done. POELF.E.*—Take two pounds of veal, I two pounds of bacon, two large cariots, i and three onions; cut all these into dice, I and put them into a stewpan, with a t pound of butter, the juice of three or 1 four lemons, four cloves, two bay-leaves, I bruised, a little thyme, salt, and pepper ; set it over a good fire, and when pretty I well reduced, add a ladlelul of pot set- tlings ; as soon as the whole is abi ut half I done, take it off. and set it by for use. . POIVllADE.'—Put into a stewpan a IP 0 R ( 415 ) FOR large bunch of parsley-leaves, some scal- lions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, a dessert spoonful of fine white pepper, a glass of vinegar, and a small quantity of butter ; set the pan on the fire, and re- duce the whole till nearly all gone, when add two ladiesful of espag^nole, and one of stock; reduce these again to the proper consistence, and strain it for use. POMEGRANATE Clear Cakes.— Pare some good boiling apples, and put them into a saucepan with as much water as will cover them, set them on the fire, and when perfectly soft, press the ^Ip through a sieve, and then strain it. Boil this jelly with the juice of two or three pomegranates, that of one orange, and one lemon, and the rind of each grated ; strain it again, and to every pound of jelly add a pound and a quarter of fine sugar, boiled till it cracks, colour it with cochineal; pour it into glasses (taking ofl' the scum before it becomes cold). Set them in a stove, and when the top is dry, turn them out, and pul them to dry again ; then cut them into what- ever forms you please, put them into the stove or oven to harden, then lay them on sieves, and when thoroughly dry, place them in boxes with paper between. As they are apt to become moist, they should be looked at frequently. PowEGRANATES, Transparent Jelly of.* —Take the seeds from five very fine pomegranates, from which extract the juice by pressing it hard through a horse- hair sieve; filter this juice and mix it with some syrup tinged of a rose colour, with a little cochineal ; add the isinglass to this, and finish as usual. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) Pomegranates, Syrup of.*—Take five very ripe large pomegranates, extract the seeds (which must be very red); crush, and put them into a skillet, with half a pint or wafer; set them on the fire till soft, and then squeeze the juice through a new coarse cloth; clarify a pound and half of sugar^ and boil it to souffle, then add the juice, boil them together to the usual consistence of syrups. It must not be bottled until quite cold. This number of pomegra- nates will yield a quart of syrup. Pork to Chouse.—If the pork is fresh, the flesh appears cool ana smooth ; if tainted, it is clammy; the knuckle in general is allected first. There is a kind of pork called measly; when in this stale it is extremely unwhole.some to eat; but you may easily discover when it is measly, the fat being impregnated with small kernels. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old. Pork fed at still- houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy fed pork is the best. The prime season for pork is from Michaelmas to March. Bacon-hogs and porkers are cut up differently. Hogs are kept to a larger size ; the chine for back bone) should be cut down on each side, the whole length, and is cither boiled or roasted ; the chine is considered the prime part. The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the inside is cut out with very little meat to the bone. There is a large spare-rib on eachside, which is generally divided into two, one sweet bone, and one blade bone. The bacon is the whole outside, and contains a fore-leg and a ham; the latter is the hind-leg, but if left with the bacon it is called a gammon. There are also the griskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter and less rich, but not equally tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter consists of the spring, or fore-leg, the fore-loin, or neck, the spare-rib and griskin. 'The hind consists of the leg and loin. A variety of nice dishes may be made of the feet of pork ; they should be cut off before the legs are cured. The same may be observed wUh the ears. I'he bacqn-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the hair, and is sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. Pork, Blade Bone of.—\i should be broiled, and when nearly done, peppered and salted. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard, and serve it very hot. The blade bone is taken from the bacon hog; the less meat lelt on it, in moderation, the better. Pork Cheese.* — Take a pig’s head, and having boned it, cut all the meat into rather thick slices: do the same with the etirs ; separate, the fat from the lean, and mix the whole with bay-leaf, thyme, basil, sage, parsley (all shred fine), salt, pepper, nutmeg, and other spices, the peel and juice of a lemon ; lay the skin of the head open over a salad- bowl; arrange the pieces in it, inter- mixing with them a little leaf, tongue, a Veearlate, and truffles; when all are put in, wrap the skin round them ; sew it up very tight, and dress it as directed for hog’s head ; when suflicientiy done, take it from the fire, and whilst warm, put it in a mould to give it any shape you may desire. Pork Cheese (Italian).* — Pound a pig’s liver, with two third’s bacon, andP O R PO R ( 416 ) one third leaf; wlien they are thoiouglily incorporated, add to them shred tliyme, sage, basil, Imy-leaf, parsley, coriander, spices, anise (pounded), grated nutmeg, salt and pepper. Line a mould with caul, into whieli put the above preparation ; cover it with thin slices of bacon, and bake it. When done, leave it to cool in the mould. Pork Chitterlings.*—Take the fat guts of a pig, wash and cut them into such lengths as you may desire, and then put them into vinegar and water, with thyme, bay-leaf, and basil, for twelve hours; after which, chop up a part of the above, some fresh pork, and leaf; and season them with salt, pepper, four kinds of apices, and a little anise in powder; put these into the remaining guts, so as to fill them about two thirds, tie tliem up, and boil them in equal quantities of water and milk, to which add salt, thyme, basil, and bay-leaf. When done, leave them to cool in the liquor; they must be broiled before they are sent to table. Pork, Fritters.* — Are made in the same manner as veal fritters; the pig’s fry make the best. They should be fried in olive oil; and made of a lighter colour than other fritters. Pork Griskin. — Pork griskin is in general extremely hard; the best way to prevent this is by putting it into a suffi- cient quantity of cold water to cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it ofl', and put it into a Dutch oven ; it will be done in a few minutes. It should be rubbed all over with butter, and then floured before it is put to the fire. Pork {Hashed) and Onions.*—Cut a oold roasted chine of pork into stnall slices ; clear away all the skin, and take fifteen large onions, cut them in halves; take the hearts, and cut them into half rings; fry them lightly; drain and put them into a slewpan, with two spoonsful of co7isomme ; when reduced to a glaze, add the meat, and four spoonsful of espagnole. Make it hot, without boiling; put in some butter, and serve it. PoRK.fo Pickle.—The quantities must be proportioned to the middlings of a retty large hog, the hams and shoulders eing taken oil. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse stigar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it for twenty-lour hours ; then rub with the. above ingredients ; pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it from swimming in the pickle, which the salt will produce. If kept from the air it will continue good for two years. Pork, Pickled.*—Take the breast or belly parts of a pig; cut it in pieces, each of which rub well with fine salt and a little saltpetre ; put them one on another into a jar, as close ns possible ; fill up all the interstices with salt, cover the. jar with a cloth, and close the jar tight. Leave the pork thus for a week or ten days, and then they may be served as you please. Pork Pie-—C\it into chops a piece of loin of pork, wiith the rind and part of the iinfier bone cut off; season them with pepper and salt, cover them with puli'paste, bake the pie, and when ready to be served, put in some cullis, with the essence of two onions, and a little mus- tard mixed with it. Pork Pie.—Make a short paste the same as for tarts; butter a large deep copper mould (or a slewpan will do), round the bottom and sides, place the paste tolerably thick, and having stewed the pork with pepper and salt, and a little grated nutmeg, place it in the crust wiih the gravy over it; cover it in with a good crust on the top. garnish it over with leaves, egg it, and bake it in a moderate oven ; when done, take it out. letting it stand in the mould till cold ; and having slewed some odd bits of pork, or bones, for gravy, reduce it till it becomes tole- rably strong, turn the pie out of the mould, and pour in the gravy. If you should not happen to have any bits of pork, beef will do to make the gravy ; it must not be cut till thoroughly cold ; the odd pieces near the spare-rib, the kid- neys, &c. will do very well for this pie ; the less bone, the better it will cut. _ Pork (Cheshire) Pie.—Skin a loin of pork, cut it into steaks; season it with Balt, nutmeg, and pepper; make a good crust; put into the dish first a layer of pork, then a layer of pippins, pared and cored, and a little sugar, sufficient to sweeten the pie, and then a layer of pork; put in half a pint of white wine, pome butter on the top, and close your pie ; if it is a large one, it will require a pint of wine. Pork Potted.—C\it the meat from a lea of pork into pieces, pound it very well in a mortar, seas >n it well with salt and pepper; then mix the meat with rose- mary and sage, shred small; put it into R pot to bake with a pound of hutter : when it comes out of the oven, drain it from tl;e gravy, and press it down clo.so in a dry pot. Then having skimmed oil all the butter from your gravy, clarify .as much more butter as will cover the meatFOR FOR ( 417) an inch thick in the pot; cover the pot with wet paper, and set it in a cool place. Pork, with Sart.*—Take any joint pf fresh killed pork you like, sprinkle it with coarse salt and spices ; the next day spit, and roast it, basting with its oivn ravy; take care tliat it is thoroughly one. Serve with whatever sauce or garnish you please. Some persons lard it with green sage before it is roasted. Pork(/»wA) Cuttwo or three ' good-sized onions into slices, and fry them lightly in oil; then add two spoons- ! ful of cullis, a little broth, a few mush- rooms, chopped, a clove of garlic, vine- gar and spice. Let it boil half an hour, reduce to a proper consistence, skim ana strain it. Pork Sausages.—Take two pounds of lean pork, three pounds of chine fat, free j from skin, some sage leaves, chopped line, pounded cloves, pepper and salt; beat it fine, and either press it into pots, and roll it when it is used, or put it into skins. ' Pork Sausages.*—Take one third fat, and two thirds lean fresh pork, chop it ' well, but not too fine: season with salt, pepper and spices, and put it into a pan, ' which set on hot ashes for half .an hour ; clean the guts thoroughly (they may be of any animal), tie one end, and fill them \ with tlie above, gradually, pressing them gently that the meat may descend to the bottom ; divide, and tie them in wlmt lengths you please. Pork Sausages.—Take pork in which there is more fat than lean, mince it with t parsley and young onions, and season r with salt and fine spices; put the whole I, into the gut of a calf or pig, tie the sau- h sages of a proper length, and broil them ; [i you may gtve them any flavour you think I proper, with truffles, shalots, &c. If witli truffles, mince them with the meat according to the quantity you choose; if r with shalots, you must use very little, 1 for fear the taste should predominate too much. Flat sausages are made in the I same manner, with this difference, that the mentis put into a pig’s maw. Some li persons add a glass of white wine to the !i sausage meat when mixing. I Pork Sa^^^ag•es.—Take eight pounds of [i lean pork, free from gristle and skin ; ► shred and chop it very fine, then chop f four pounds of beef suet, and four pounds ij of pork fat, shred extremely fine, and a |i good handful of sage; spread the meat )l out upon a large dish, and shake sage N over It: grate in two nutmegs, add a • Spoonful of salt, and about three spoons- « ful of sweet herbs, very finely chopped; 1 shake over it the pork fat and the suet, then mix all well together; pot it close down with paper over it. It will be much better for letting it stand a day or two. When you wish to make them up, roll them up about the size of a sausage, dip them in egg, and then roll them in flour; have some butter on the fire, and when very hot, put them in, shaking them about nearly the whole time, till they are done of a fine colour; tlien serve them hot to table. If you choose you may put them into skins, taking care that they are very clean, filling them very gently with a funnel, otherwise they may stand a chance of being broken; these are best for garnishing a turkey. Pork Sausage to Eat Cold.— Season fat and lean pork with salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat; the sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalots, or garlic, as fine as pos- sible. Have ready an ox gut, that has been scoured, salted, and well soaked, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it up to smoke, the same as a ham, first wrapping it in a fold or two of muslin. It must be high dried. Some persons eat it without boiling, others prefer it boiled. The skin should be tied in several places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. Pork, Spring or Forehand.—Take out the bone; then sprinkle over the inside some salt, pepper, and sage, dried ; but first warm a little butter to baste ; then flour it, roll it up tightly, and tie it; then roast it by a hanging jack. It will take about two hours to roast. Pork, Chine of.*—Cut this piece as square as possible, and leave the fat on it an inch thick, score it, and skewer it into proper form, roast it for two hours ; serve it with tomata, piquante, or Robert sauce. Pork {Chine of) Roasted.—If parted down the back-bone, so as to have but one side, it will take two hours to roast before a good fire; but if not parted it will take three hours. Chines are usually salted and boiled. Pork (Chine of) Stuffed. — Take a chine of pork that has hung four or five tlaj^; cut some holes in llie lean, and stuff it with a little of the leaf fat, chop- ped extremely small, some parsley, thyme, a small quantity of sage, and shalots, cut very fine, seasoned with pep- per, salt, and nutmeg ; it should be stuff- ed pretty thick, and served with good gravy in the dish. Applesauce, and potatoes should be served with it. Pork Chops, Broiled.—Ilroil them in the same manner as mutton chops, but they require more doing. Put a little good gravy to them, and strew over aP O R 418) POR little sage, Bhred very fine, which very mucli iitiproves the fiavnur. PoiiK Chops en Rugotil.*—C\\i a loin or neck of fresh pork into cliops, and stew them with a little stock, a bunch of herbs, pepper, and salt; have ready a veal sweetbread, parboiled, and cut into large dice; put it into a stewpan with some mushrooms, the livers of any kind of poultry, and a small quantity of butler, set it on the fire with some flour, a glass of white wine, a little gravy, and a little stock ; add salt and coarse pep- per, a bunch of par.-ley and green onions, a clove of garlic, and two cloves: let the whole boil, and reduce to a thick sauce, and serve it over the chops ; or you may dress the chops in the same manner a.s the ragofit, and when rather more than half done, add the sweetbread, livers, and mushrooms. Pork Cutlets.—Take a loin of pork and skin it, then divide it into cutlets; strew over them some parsley and thyme, cut small, with pepper, salt, and grated bread; broil them of a fine brown ; have ready some good gravy, a spoonful of ready-made mustard, two shalots shred small; boil all these to- gether over the fire, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; if agree- able, add a little vinegar. Serve the cutlets in a hot dish, with the sauce poured over them. Pork Cutlets, Broiled.—Cut the pork chops the same as veal cutlets, leaving a little fat on them ; beat them to flatten them into a good shape ; broil them, and when thoroughly done, serve with a sauce Robert, or gherkins. Pork Cutlets, with Red or fVhite Cab- bage.—Take a back piece of pork, cut it into cutlets, beat and trim them, season with pepper and salt, gently broil them till done ; they must be of a nice light brown colour. Serve them on red or white cabbage, stewed. Pork (^Fillet of) Roasted. — Take a piece of back pork, cut the chine bone from the under part, and let it lay in a marinade all night; when to be roasted, run a lark-spit through, tie it on another spit, cover it with paper, and roast it gently ; and when to be served up, if not coloured enough, glaze it lightly, and serve it with a sauce Robert under- neath. Pork Loin and Neck.—They should be roasted. With a sharp penknife cut the skin of the loin across, at the dis- tance of half an inch. Pork {Neck of) Rolled.—Take a neck of pork and remove out all the bones; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few bread-crumbs, salt, pepper, and a few berries of allspice,over the inside; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and let it roast slowly, placing it at first a good distance from the fire. Pork {Leg of) Barbicued.—Put a leg of pork before the fire to roast, put a good deal of red wine iuto the dripping- pan, and baste it well all the time it is roasting; if there is not enough port in at first, add more ; itwill take about three pints ; cut the skin from the bottom of the shank in rows of an inch bro.id; raise every other row, and roll it to the shank ; have ready a pint of strong gravy, and add to it a pint of red wine, a couple of anchovies, a bundle of sweet herbs, the yolks of four eggs boiled hard and pound- ed fine, with a quarter of a pound of but- ter, the juice ot a lemon, and two spoons- ful of ketchup; let the gravy and wine be vvell boiled together, and the anchovy with it; strain these off, and add the other ingredients; let them boil a few minutes; froth the pork, take it up, pour part of the sauce over it, and put the rest into a boat. Pork, Leg of Boiled.—Take a leg of pork that has been in salt eight or ten days; when it is to be dressed, weigh it; let it soak for half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up; as soon as it boils, skim it, and an continue. Allow water enough. It should be l>oiled in a cloth, nicely floured, this adds much to the delicacy of its appearance. The ork should be small, and of a fine grain, erve peas pudding and turnips with it. VosKfs.{Leg of) Broiled.—Skin part of the fillet, cut it into thin slices, hack it on the back with a knife, then season with salt and pepper, sage and thyme, minced small; then broil them on a giidiron, dish them, and let their sauce be butter, vinegar, and mustard. Pork (i/c^o/) Roasted).—Make choice of a small leg of fine young pork ; with a sharp knife cut a slit in the knuckle, and fill the space with chopped sage and onion, and a little pepper and salt. When half roasted, score the skin in slices, being careful not to cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to cat with it. Pork {Shoulders and Breasts).—Pat them into pickle, or the .shoulder may be salted as a leg; when they arc very nice, they may be roasted. Porker's Head, to Roast.—Takes fine young head, thoroughly clean it. and pul brcHU and sage the same as for pig; sew it up tight, and roast it like a pig, on a419) POT POT string or hanging.jack, and serve it with the same aance as for pig. POT.VOE d Tak-e carp, percli, pilce, smelts, or any other fish you chuse, cut tliem into pieces, add a few oysters (without their sliells); put all tliese into (ish-broth, and simmer over a moderate fire till sufficiently done, and the meat separates from the bones; then let the liquor run through a sieve, re- move the oones, and rub the fish to a puyee, also tlirough the sieve; .soak bread as usual in the^ broth, cover the slices with the puree, and fill your tureen. PoTAGE a la Chartres.*—three or four veal sweetbreads in warmwater; then scald and put them into a saucepan with one or two cock’s-combs (also scalded), i a bunch of parsley, green shalots, a few j mushrooms, two cloves, and some good i stock, set tlie whole on a slow fire; cut I and soak your bread as usual, pur it into the tureen, and when the above articles are sufficiently done, add them to the bread with a proper quantity of the broih, and serve. PoTAGE a la Conde.*—HoW a quartern of scarlet beans in some stock; add to them two carrots, tvvoonions, two cloves, a little pot-skimmings; when they are quite done, str ain them through a sieve, and pour your purte into a soup-tureen on some pieces of fried bread. PoTAGE d la CourteBouillon.—Prepare some ham, beef, and veal in a stewpan, with spice and vegetables, as directed for Soiipde Santa, and fill it up with con- somme, and about one bottle of sherry ; when the meat is well done, pass it through a lawn sieveinto a pan or ba-in ; have some carrots and celery prepared the same as for vegetable soup, Itlanched and stewed in strong consomme, likewise five or six fine cabbage lettuces, done I whole, and stewed as carrots and celery ; I two dozen small onions must be fried I brown, and put into the soup-pot with I the other vegettibles ; when they are pro- erly slewed, pour the soup from the asin over them, and let them simmer gently by the side of the stove for four hours, skimming whenever it is required. Put the crust of two French rulls, cut round, and fried of a light brown, in the tureen, and pour the soup over them. PoTAGE d la Crec!/.*—Take six large carrots, four turnips, six onions, three linads of celery, four leeks, cut them in pieces, and put them into a saucepan with some butter and a lump of sugar: give them a few turns over the lire, and then moisten them with stock, in which let them simmer for two hours, nil) the vegetables through a sieve, clarify your puree, which may not be too thick ; soak your bread, as usual, in rich stock ; pour the potage into the tureen, and serve it. PoTAGE, d la tfeawjfref.*—Roast ten or a dozen potatoes on hot ashes, and having peeled them, remove all those parts which may be hard or crisp, and pound the remainder dry; then add the breasts of four fowls, and a quarter of a pound of butter, pound these with the potatoes ; when it has become a smooth paste, put to it the yolks of eight eggs ; beat them up with the rest, season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; if your paste be too thick, add a sufficient quantity of double cream to make it of the proper consist- ence to make into balls, which poach, eitlier in broth or salt water, and a small quantity of butter ; in about half an hour take them out, drain, and having filled your tureen with good broth, put in the balls and serve it. Potage d la JvMsef.*—Take thirty car- rots, as many turnips, and small onions, twenty leek-s, ten heads of celery (the two latter cut about an inch long), six lettuces. Put the above (except the let- tuces) into some stock, and boil them, braise the latter between two slices of bacon; when done, put them with the other vegetables into a soup-tureen with- out any bread. Potage d la Polacre.*—Take some boiled potatoes, peel and cut them into slices; put a handful of chopped fennel into some good stock, set it on the fire, let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and liaving put the potatoes into a soup- tureen, pour the broth on them and serve. PoTAOVi,Pi-intannier, or Chiffunade.*— Take twenty young carrots, as many turnips, small'onions, and leeks, cut them into pieces with a root-cutter, blanch, and cool them ; put them into a saucepan with some good cowtiowime, conk the above routs in this, putting in tlie onions last; add to these some young peas, sorrel, lettuces (cut small) young broad beans, asparagus heads, French beans, and cucumbers, cut in pieces ; boil all these with the fir.st-mentioned arti- cles, a lump of sugar, and a pinch of shred parsley. Reduce the whole to a glaze; serve it, either with or without broad, in a puree of green peas or some good consoinnie, Potage d laReine.*—Take three or four cold roast cldckens, cut oil' all the meat, and pound it well with two tablc- spoonsfiil of rice (previously boiled in water for a quartei of an hour), dilute it with some good consomme, and strain it; then add asufficient quantity of con.'OHiwr to the pttrec to make it of the requisite( 420 ) P OT POT consistence; putthe liones of the chickens into the above, and let it simmer over a small fire for nvo hours ; about a quarter of an hour before dinner pour some of it over the bread to soak it as usual; just before serving, strain the whole through a fine sieve. PoTAGE A la S'.imte Mcnikoulde.—For this potage you must have eight or nine clear carrots, scraped, cut in quarteis. and the inside white taken out, then boil it with six heads of celery in astewpanof water with a spoonful of salt, till perfectly tender; put them in a sieve for a few mi- nutes, then stir them in a stewpan with two ounces of butter, on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, with a little salt, a small lump of sugar, and one handful of peppercorns ; when they are well washed, put in a ladleful of good veal gravy or espagnole, and when it boils rub it through a tammy; add a pint more of the gravy when the whole is put into the soup pot, till within one hour of the din- ner, then place it on the stove to boil gently ; having some vegetables prepared the same as in Vegetable Soup, weh stewed down in a quart of good consomyne, put them in the puree for ten minutes ; before serving, skim and stir it gently, then pour it in the tureen. Potage d la Viennet*—Take some slices of crumb, about half an inch thick, cut them into squares, ovals, or circles, according to your fancy; they must, however, be all of the same shape ana size, twenty or thirty are sufficient; fry them in a quarter of a pound of butter over R brisk fire; when they are of a nice colour, lay them on a cloth to drain, then put them into a soup-tureen, and ten minutes be- fore you serve, pour on them any sort of clearptirce you may think proper, Potage d la Xavier.*—Take a pound of flour, six yolks, two whole eggs, a lit- tle salt, and a sufficient quantity of stock or brotii to make the above into a thin paste, to which add a spoonful of shred parsley, some grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and mix them well. Pour some good stock or broth into a saucepan till about three parts full, set it on tlie fire, and when it boils takea skimmer, through which rub the above-mentioned paste ; be careful to keep it constantly boiling, that the paste may stiflen, and skim it well. A quarter of an hour is sufficient time to do this potage. POTATOES d I'Anglaise.*—Having well washed ns many potatoes as you may require, boil them in salt and water; when nearly done, pare and cut them into slices, then put them into some melted butter, and fry them lightly; sca- son with pepper, salt,and nutmeg; serve them dry. Potatoe Cheesecakes.* —Pare and boil thoroughly half a pound of the beat kind of potatoes; when quite done, rub them through a sieve, and mix with them two eggs well beaten, a sufficient quantity of milk to make itintoa paste,afew currants, a little spice, and grated bread. Lay this on puff-paste, like other cheesecakes, and bake. Potatoe Biscuits.*—Beat the yolks of fifteen eggs with a pound of sifted sugar, grate the rind of a lemon on a piece of lump sugar ; scrape off the yellow sugar with a knife, and having dried it well, add it to the above, and continue to beat till it becomes quite white ; in the mean- time whip up an equal number of whites, and mix them lightly with the rest; then sift into it half a pound of potatoe flour; stir it in, and pour the preparation into paper cases, but not to fill them ; glaze, and place the cases on paper laid on a clean baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. Potatoes ( Young) d la Creme.—Take some fine young potatoes when they first come in ; boil them in a little water with plenty of salt, and when done, carefully take off’the skin; toss them in a good cream sauce, and serve them at the se- cond course. Potatoes, d la Creme.*—Put into a saucepan about two ounces of butter, a dessert-spoonful of flour, parsley, scal- lions (both sliced small), salt, and pep- per ; .stir them up together, add a glass of cream and set it on the fire, stirring till it boils ; then having cut some boiled potatoes into slices, put them into the above ; give them a boil, and serve them hot. Potatoes, Croquettes of.*—Take the flowery parts of some welt roasted pota- toes ; put them into n mortar, and pound them with some cream: rub the puree through a sieve, .and add some butter, shred parsley, yolks of eggs, and the whites beaten to a snow; make this pre- paration into little balls, which roll in bread-crumbs; fry the croquettes of a nice colour, and serve them hot. A lit- tle powder-sugar and orange-flower water may be added to the above. Potatoes {French Custard of) * — Roast thirty of the best potatoes in hot ashes ; pare, use only the whitest parte, of which take three pounds, and heat it up thoroughly with a pound of fresh, but- ter ; then add the yolks of twelve egge. a pound of powder-sugar, two ounces of crisped orange-flower, (also in powder), a pinch of salt, and a few spoonslul of{ 421 ) POT POT Chantilly cream; add to these the whites ( of twelve eggs, whipped firm; then pour >i this preparation into a croustade, like I other French custards, put it into a mo- I derate oven, and bake it for two hours, i or two and a half if necessary. Glaze I and serve it. Potatoes {Frangipane of). * — Take I some steamed potatoes, (let them be 1 thoroughly done); pare, and pound i them perfectly; then put them into a ; basin, add some whole eggs, a little biit- ; ter, the rind of a lemon grated, some 1 bitter almonds crushed, a small quantity I of sugar, and a grain of salt; mix these together well, and use this frangipane . according to the usual directions. Potatoes Fried for Garniture.*—Cut I about forty potatoes either into balls or corks, wash and drain them. Clarify a pound of fresh butter, and when melted, I pour it over the potatoes (which have II been put into a frying-pan); take care I, that they do not lay one on another; cover the pan, and set it on a brisk fire, II but lessen it afterwards, and then put ii hot coals on tlie lid; stir the potatoes ii occasionally until they are of a nice gold l[ colour, then drain, and fry them in a ii little butter and veal glaze. Observe, !1 the potatoes should be dressed only just before they are wanted. ' PoTATOE Fritters.*— Wash and pare I some potatoes; cut them into slices, [( which soak for half an hour in a little || brandy, with the rind of a lemon; then || drain, dip them in a good batter, and fry I them of a nice colour; drain them again, |l place the fritters in a dish, sprinkle sugar ri over, and serve them hot. I Potatoes (Gateau of).*—Pare as many Ii steamed, or vyell-boiled dry potatoes, and h pound theni in a mortar, add butter and 1 milk in wliich sugar has been dissolved : when the potatoes are well beaten and mixed, set the paste on the fire and boil it; then pour it into a basin to cool; then I put to it the yolks of eight eggs, a suffi- cient quantity of sugar, the whites of g four eggs beaten to a snow, and two Iq Spoonsful of orange-flower water. Take ; i a saucepan, butter the inside well, and i| sprinkle the sides over witli bread ti crumbs, and pour in the above prepara- [' tion; set it on the stove with hot asiies II on the lid, and let it remain till done, II and nicely coloured, when it may be S. turned on a dish. I Potatoes A la Lyonnaise.*—Cut some tb boiled potatoes into slices, which put into a saucepan, and pour over them a clear I puree of onions ; set tliem on the fire, fe and keep them hot, without letting them w boil; add pepper, salt, a small quantity of stock, and a very little vinegar. Serve very hot. Potatoes A la Maftre Hav- ing boiled your potatoes as usual, pare, and cut them into slices, which put into a stewpan, with a good piece of butter, shred parsley, and scallions, salt and pepper; set them on the fire a short time, and then fry them lightly in a little butter and sweet herbs; if you find the butter oils, pour in a spoonful of water. Serve with a little lemon juice. Potatoe Pie. — Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices ; season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put into your dish alternate layers of meat and potatoes, until the dish is filled. Potatoes A la ProvenQale.*—Put into a saucepan about two ounces of butter, cut into several pieces, and three des- sert spoonsful of oil, half the peel of a lemon, parsley and scallions (both shred small), grated nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of flour, salt and whole pepper; throw some potatoes into boiling water, in a few minutes take them out, pare and cut them into four or six pieces, according to their size ; put these pieces into the but- ter, &c., set the saucepan on the fire, stirring them constantly, taking care not to let them boil. Serve with a little lemon-juice squeezed over. Potatoe Pudding. * — Having tho- roughly boiled two pounds of potatoes, peel and pound them well, then mix them with half a pound of melted butter, the same of powder-sogar, and six eggs ; beat the whole well, then add a handful or two of flour, and a glass of white wine; stir these in, tie it in a buttered cloth, and boil it for half an hour. Potatoe Pudding.* — To two pounds of potatoes, boiled and mashed, when cold, add three eggs well beaten, two ounces of moist sugar, a little nutmeg, and a pint of new milk ; add lemon-peel if you please. Bake it. I’oTATOES {Puree of).*—Steam some potatoes thoroughly, and having pared them, put them into a mortar, and pound them as fine as possihle, moistening them with good stock. Rub them ihiougha sieve into a saucepan, and dilu'e the purie with more stock ; set it on the fite, and stir it till it is of the requisite con- sistence, wliich should be tlrat of thick cream ; serve the puree witli fried bread round, and browned with the salaman- der. Potatoes (Quenelles of).* — Put some of the best kind of potatoes into hot ashes t(i roast; when done, take out all the flowery parts, which put into a mortar, 2 0POU 422 POT Pound it well, and rub it through a sieve; take half the quantity of butler, and beat It in the mortar with the potatoe flour, till it becomes a very line paste ; then mix with it parsley and scallions, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, the yolks of five or six eggs, and the whites of two or three well whipped; make your and poach them as directed (see Fowl Qtie- nelles). Drain the quenelles, place them in a dish, and pour over them an espag- •nole travaillee, tomata, Portuguese, or any other sauce you may prefer. Potatoe Take a dozen large potatoes, and roast them in hot ashes; when thoroughly done, pare and remove all those parts which may be at all co- loured by the heat, and of the remainder weigh three quarters of a pound, which put into a mortar, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and beat them together well; then add four ounces of powder- sugar, two of sifted flour, the yolks of two eggs, and a grain of salt; pound these all together to a fine paste, flour a slab, lay the paste on it, and having rolled it out, cut it into four equal parts, divide these again into small bits the size of a walnut, which roll into balls, or any other form you like better; place them on a slightly buttered baking-plate, dorez, and bake them in a moderate oven. Let them be of a nice colour, and dry a little, that they may be crisp. Potatoes (Sou^le of).*—Take six des- sert spoonsful of potatoe flour, which dilute with a pint of cream, the yolks of four eggs ; add six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, and a little shred le- mon-peel ; set this mixture on the fire, stii ring till it has boiled up several times; then take it off, and when cold, mix in the yolks of six eggs, (or more if neces- sary); whip four whites of eggs as if for biscuits, and stir them lightly into the souffle, which put into a silver dish, and finish as usual. Potatoe Flour, Method of procuring.* —Wash and brush fifteen pounds of the most flowery kind of potatoes; have ready a large pan full of water, into which grate the potatoes ; when all are (lone, change the water, in three hours’ time change it again, wash the flour twice more, then drain it on a silk tammy, and put it in the oven to dry ; if you want the flour quickly, put it (tn a stewpan, which set on hot ashes ; sift it before you use it. The above quantity of potatoes will yield two pounds of flour. Potatoe Flour {Souffle of).*— an infusion of any aromatic article you please ; then take a moderate sized sauce- pan, into which put half a pound of sifted potatoe flour, the same qitaiiiity of fresh butter, mix these together till they form a very smooth paste, and dilute it with nearly all the infusion, add a pound of powder-sugar, and a pinch of salt; set the saucepan on a moderate fire, stirring constantly ; the moment it begins to thicken, take it o3' that it may more readily acquire consistence ; tlien replace it on the stove, and dry it lor a few mi- nutes; then remove it again, mix with it the yolks of sixteen eggs, which should reduce it to the consistence of creme pa- tissiere, if not, pour in the infusion which was reserved; having in the interim whipped the sixteen whites to a strong froth, stir them as lightly as possible into the above; make tlie whole quite hot, and then pour it into a crmisiade ; set it in a moderate oven for an hour, or an hour and a half; serve it the instant it is brought from the oven, either glazed or not, according to your taste. POTIIION {Gateau o/).*-^Peel and cut some poliron into small pieces, and put them into a stet^'pan with a little milk; when sufficiently soft, press it in a cloth to get rid of all the water; then give it a few turns in some butter, add some potatoe flour, milk and sugar, and let it boil slowly till of the proper con- sistence, then take it from the tire, and pour it into a basin ; as soon as it is <x)ld, add the yolks of eight eggs, sugar, two spoonsful of orange-flower water, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a snow; pour this preparation into a well buttered saucepan, and set it on a stove, (rover the lid with hot ashes. When done, and sufficiently coloured, turn it on a dish, and serve. PoTiRON {Polage o/).*—Cut some ;x)f- iron into rather large dice, which put into a saucepan with a little water, ai.d boil it till sufficiently done; then put it into a cullender to drain, and when quite dry, rub it through a bolting; put the purSe into a saucepan, with a proper quantity of milk, so that the potage be not too thick, and add a quafter of a pound of butter, (.'ut some slices of bread into such shapes as you may think proper, brown them lightly ir. a little butter the same as for spinach, lay iheno in your dish, and pour the potage on them ; take cure that it be well salted. POUPELIN.*—Put into a saucepan four glasses of water, a quarter of a lauird of butter, the zeste of a lemon, and a pinch of fine salt; set it on the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil, takeitcti, and put iu as much sifted flour a< will make a paste the consistence of eAoi/Jf, then replace it on the fire, snd keep stirring till it diies ; make asuiuhrr mi.v turc, anil n hen that al-o is dry, pul bclltP o U ( 423 ) PUD ij into a mortar, with liaU a pound of pow- 13 der-3ugar, an ounce of oiange-flowers, ti| and two eggs at a time, until five and :j twenty or thirty are used, by wliich time ll the paste will be pf die proper consis- H tence, then pour it into a lightly buttered B tin; put it into a moderate oven, and leave it. In three hours’ time, if the i; poupelin is of a nice gold colour, take it |i out, cut off the top, and with a spoon h rernove all ihe inside, then set it in the h oven to dry. When cold, spread all over l! the interior apricot marmalade, on which i, strew sweet macaroons crushed, then ij turn it on a dish, and serve. _ I Histoire*—Putintoa sauce- 1] pan eight glasses of water, and as many ii ounces of butter; set it on the fire, and ;i as soon as it boils take it off’, and add i; as much sifted flour as will make a stiff i| paste, replace it on the fire, stirring con- II stantly for some minutes to dry; then i' take it out, and make a second quantity j in the same manner, and when that also i: is dried, put both into a mortar, with !: three quarters of a pound of siipr, two ll ounces of orange-flower, and six eggs; |! then beat it up, add six more, and so on 11 until the paste is moistened completely with fifty or sixty eggs; pour this pre- j: paration into a large, well-buttered i] mould of twelve sides, and put it into a iiotoven. In two hours’time the paste i; will rise above the mould, and some parts of it fall over, which, however, is un- ij avoidable, and of no consequence. When ii it has stood three hours and a half, draw I the mould to the opening of the oven, ii and if the top of the poupelin is of a nice f colour, cut it off, and with a large spoon, I take out all the paste from the interior I of the mould, so as to leave a complete i erotistade witliinside, which must remain f. a few minutes to dry; then take it out, f and when nearly cold, fill this croustade N with three pounds of apricot marmalade, l| and over that a pound of sweet macaroons I; crushed; this done, turn the mould over N on a layer of common paste, nearly an II inch larger than the top of the mould, [I which may now be removed. Dissolve i in a bain-marie a pot of apple-jelly, and M another of red curi-ant-jelly, then with a feather cover the twelve sides of the , poupelin alternately with these two jel- lies; then mix t’nem togetlier, and by the same means wash over the other parts of \X\Q poupelin. If you wish to ' ornament it still more, cut out a number ' of leaves of pistachios or green biscuits, which Slick on with apricot marmalade, in such form as you may think proper, I and between them place well-washed dry currants. Serve it as soon as possible after it is decorated. Poupelin d la Rciiie.*—Make a choux paste, with very little butter, and a good deal of flour, dry it as much as possible, and then dilute it again with eggs. Lay your choux very small, and of an equal size, dorez and put them in the oven ; as soon as they are well dried, and of a nice colour, oil the mould you intend to use ; and having clarified and boiled some su- gar to cassc, take up the choux on the end of a skewer, dip them in the sugar, place one in the middle of your mould, and lay the others round it until the in- terior is completely covered, taking care that they touch each other; when done, turn the mould over carefully on a folded napkin, and serve ihe poupelin. PRAWNS.—VVhen in perfection, they have an excellent smell, and their flavour is extremely sweet; they ai'e firm and stiff, the tails (which turn inward) parti- cularly. When the prawns are fresh, their colour is very bright; but if stale, they are pale, and clammy to the touch. PaAWNS Buttered.—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of flour and butter, a very little nutmeg, salt and pepper ; sim- mer a minute or two, and serve with sippets, or with a cream sauce instead of brown. Prawns {Cicrrie of).— See Currie of Lobsters, Prawns in Jelly. — Make a savoury fish-jelly, and put some into the bottom of a small deep dish; when it is cold, lay in the prawns, with their backs down- wards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. Prawns to Serve.* — Take a pound and a half of fine prawns, pick and trim them neatly; have ready a deep dish or soup-plate, the centre of which fill witli any kind of salading you please, pro- vided it has no smell; c»ver this with a large napkin, folded square, and the cor- ners turned down, so as to form an octa- gon, leaving no more than the border of the plate or dish visible ; place a hand- ful of nice green parsley on the napkin, and the prawns in a pyramid on it. Pudding {Directions /or).—Take the greatest care in boiling of a pudding, that the cloth is perfectly clean, otherwise the outside of the pudding will have a disagreeable flavour; to prevent tliis, tlu*. cloth should always be nicely washed and kept jn a dry place, and when wanted for use, it sliould be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, for fear the ingredients should not mix. When the pudding is done, a pan of 2 0 2PUD PUD cold water should be ready, and the pud- ding dipped into it as soon as it comes out of tlie pot, wliicli will prevent its ad- hering to I he elotli. A bread-pudding should be tied loose : if batter, it must be tieil tight over, ana a batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve when all is mixed. In ottiera, the eggs only. If you boil the pudding in a basin or pan, take care that it is always well buttered. When you make your puddings with- out eggs, they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil for three or four hours. A few spoonsfuls of small beer, or one of yeast, is the best substi- tute for eggs. Your puddings will al- ways be much lighter if you beat the yolks and whites of the eggs long and separately. You may, if you please, use snow instead of eggs, either in puddings or pancakes. Two large spoonsful will supply the place of one egg; the snow may be taken up from any clean spot be- fore it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Pudding, Derbyshire.*—Take a pint of milkand two table-spoonsful offlour; mix it by degrees, boil it till thick, and set it by till cold; then add three ounces of butter, beaten to a cream, a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, a little salt, the rind of a lemon grated, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs ; mix it thoroughly, put a paste round the dish, and bake it in a quick oven. It is very good cold. Pudding Franyais.* — To make this pudding it is necessary to have a dome- shaped mould, four inches deep, and six in diameter, and a cover to fit the top completely, both full of holes, like a cul- lender ; this mould must be buttered, and completely lined with a thin layer of paste, which must turn over its edges. Take two pounds of very round truffles, and, without washing, cut them into cir- cular pieces, a quarter of an inch thick j fry these lightly in a quarter of a pound of warm butter, with a large spoonful of fowl glaze, half a glass of madeira, a pinch of mignonette, a little grated nutmeg, and a proper auantity of salt. Then arrange the truffles in your lined mould, pour in nil the seasonings, turn the edges of the paste over them, and cover it besides with a layer of paste; put on the lid of the mould, tie it in a cloth, and boil it for an hour and a half. 7'he saucepan should be quite full of boiling water ; serve the pudding as quick as possible after it is taken up. Puddings Gcrtu(Ui,’-“^ pint ofcroam, two table-spoonsful offlour, the yolks of five two ounces of almonds bcntcn ( 424 ) a little, the crumb of a French roll, grated, sugar to your taste, the peels of two lemons, grated or shred small, and lastly, a quarter of a pound of butter, clarified and pul in cool; pour it into buttered cups, and bake them as cus- tards ; when you turn tliem out, pour over them melted butter, wine, and su- gar. Puddings in Haste.—Shred suet, and put it with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel, and gin- ger; mix, and make it into little balls, about the size and shape of an egg, with a liule flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. They take about twenty minutes lioiliug; but they will rise to the top when done. Pudding {Quaking). — Scald a quart of cream; when almost cold, add to it foureggswell beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nutmegs and sugar; tie it close in a buttered cloth; boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, for fear it should break. Melted butter, a little wine, and sugar, for sauce. Puddings. Queen’s.*—Slice some ap- ples as for fritters, butler a deep mould well; then put a layer of French roll cut very thin and dipped in butter melted without flour or water; then lay a layer of apples with sugar and letnon-peel grated; fill the mould in this way; if the apples require it, add some juice of lemon, and brandy if you choose; last of all, cover the mould before you put it into the oven. Puddings (Nelson).—Put half a dozen small cakes (called nelsnn-balls, or rice- cakes, made in small tea-cup.s) into a Dutch oven. When they are quite hot, pour over them melted butter, white wine, and sugar, and serve. Pudding d la Parisienne.*—Having minced a clove of the best vanilla, pound it with a quarter of a pound of sugar, and rub it through a sieve ; shred three quarters of a pound of veal suet, and half the quantity of beef-marrow, and six ounces of rice fliiur ; put these into a saucepan, adding to them seven yolks and two whole eggs, lialf a glass of cream, half a glass of maraschino, a pinch of salt, the quarter of a nutmeg grated, two ounces of whole pistachios, lour ounces of sweet macaroons bruised, the sugared vanilla, thirty preserved cherries, well drained, and each cut in half, and half a dozen apples chopped small; mix these ingredients together well, and then piit them into a well-buttered cloth ; tie it up, and fasten a weight of ten pounds to the centre of the pudding to prevent its falling to one side; put it into a large2 03 PUN ll saucepan filled with boiling hot water ; set it on the fire, and keep it constantly jj boiling for four hours: then take it out, I; dip it an instant in cold water, re- si move the cloth, and with a very sharp b knife rentove all the outside of the pud- I ding, strew powder-sugar over, and liav- I ingcut two ounces of pistachios, each into It six slices, fix them in like quills of a II hedgehog. Serve it as quick as possible. ; Puddings (St. Germains).—Cat eight j or ten onions into dice, and simmer them j slowly in a quarter of a pound of lard ; i when done, take them from the fire, add 1 to them half a pint of cream, a pint of 1 hog’s blood, the yolks of six eggs, two I pounds of bacon, cut into dice, salt, j and spices; mix these ingredients toge- ther well, put them into skins, and finish 1 \\\(e Black Prcdding. Pudding (2'ransparent). — Put eight ii eggs well beaten into a stewpan with |1 half a pound of sugar, pounded fine, half |l a pound of butter, and some nutmeg 1j grated. Set it on the fire, and keep I constantly stirring till it thickens. Then I set it into a basin to cool; put a rich !( puff-paste round the edge of the dish ; i] pour in the pudding, and bake it in a l( moderate oven. It will cut light and Ij clear. Candied orange and citron may ;| be added, if you think proper, i PUITS —Having given the I proper number of turns to some puff- paste, roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; then cut a piece with a paste-cutter, the edges of which are 1 scolloped, then cut two more pieces with ) smaller cutters, and place them on the ( first, press them down a little on each I other, dorez and bake them : when about ; three parts done, sprinkle tnem with su- ;j gar, glaze them. Draw them from the ■ oven, take out the middle part, which 1 fill up with any kind of sweetmeat or \ preserve you may think proper. Punch.*—This is a delicious beverage, drank either hot or cold. It is composed of a mixture of lemon-juice and peel, sugar, rum, brandy, and water, in such proportions, that the liquor may be fla- voured with all the ingredients, but that none may predominate. By the intro- duction of other articles, such as arrack, champagne, &c. to the above, it is called champagne punch, arrack punch, &c. ! The best method of proceeding is as fol- I lows : pare your lemons very thin, and i soak the peel in spirits; dissolve the I sugar in the lemon-juice, then put in the spirits in the proportion of two glasses of rum to one of brandy, some strong green tea, and water at discretion. Punch.*—Take a very sound lemon, rub the rind on a piece of fine sugar ( -125 ) QUA (about half a pound); upon this sugar pour half a pint of strong green tea, boil- ing hot; a little syrup of capillaire, the juice of two lemons, strained ; to these add a quart of brandy ; set the whole on the fire, agitate the flame ivith the punch ladle, and when the liquor is reduced one third, extinguish it, and pour the hot punch into glasses. Punch.*—Squeeze the juice of six fine lemons througn a sieve into a China bowl; grate some lemon-peel on a piece of sugar, scrape, ofi’ the surface as it be- comes yellow, and dissolve the sugar in the lemon-juice; then pour in a bottle of champagne, the same of rum, a bottle of brandy, and a little green tea; dilute these ingredients with hot water at dis- cretion. The quantity of sugar must also be regulated according to taste. Punch, Froinage Bavarois.*—Infuse the rind of two lemons, pared very thin, in half a pound of clarified sugar; strain the infusion, and having added the juice of three lemons, and six drachms of cla- rified isinglass to the infusion, finish in the usual way (see Fromagc Bavarois); add half a glass of rum or arrack to the cream. Punch, Transparent Jelly.*- — Throw into some nearly boiling syrup the rinds of two lemons; cover, and leave the in- fusion to cool; in the meantime, filter the juice of five lemons into a basin; then strain the infusion through a tammy ; add a glass of good rum, or arrack, then an ounce of isinglass, and finish in the usual way. (See Clear Fruit Jelly.) _ Punch, Souffles Frant^ais of.*—Infuse six drachms of tea in nine glasses of boil- ing milk ; cover and leave it a quarter ot an hour; in the meantime prepare your souffle in the usual way (see Soufle Franqais); put in the infusion of tea, and at the moment you are about to put in the yolks of eggs, add half a glass of good rum or arrack, and the juice of four lemons; finish -y oar souffle as directed. See the above-mentioned recipe. Punch, Syrup of.* — Make a syrup with lemons, as directed; see syrups, and when nearly cold, and well-flavoured, pour on it a bottle of arrack, or rum ; stir It well to amalgamate the two liquids; cover the vessel till the whole is quite cold, when it may be bottled. Q. Quails, Chasseur.*—Put the quails in a saucepan, with a little butter, a bay- le.if, sweet herbs, salt and pepper; set them on a fierce fire, and keep shaking them until they arc tender, when add a dessert-spoonful of (lour, half a glass ofqua ( 42G ) QUA wliite wine, and a little stock, when this is thick, and quite hot (without boiling); take it from the fire and serve. Quails, d I’Espugnole.* ~ M\n the juice of a lemon with some butter, salt, and pepper; pick, and prepare eight quails, stuff them well with the above mixture ; then fasten the legs to the body, leaving the claws free ; truss them a good shape, and put them into a sauce- pan on slices of bacon, cover them also with slices, add apoelie, moistened with equal portions of white wine and stock; set them on the fire for half an hour; then take them out, drain and untie the birds, place each on a piece of fried bread the size of the quail, and serve with a clear espagnole, with the addition of a little glaze. Quails, Gratin of*—Take the livers of ten quails, pound, and mix them with some farce cuite, a little whole pepper, salt, and pounded spice ; stuff ten quails (previously boned), with some of this, forming them as near as possible to their original shape; sew or tie them up. Mix the remainder of the farce with a ladleful of and spread it over a dish; set it on the fire a minute, and then place the quails on it, cover them with slices of bacon, and put it in a hot oven for half an hour. When done, clear away the fat, and serve with an Italienne. Q.VAH.R au Laurier*—Take eight very fresh quails ; having picked and other- wise prepared them, stuff' each with a farce made as follows:—Take the livers of the quails, some fowls’ livers, grated b.’xon, bay-leaf, and shalots (both shred small), salt, pepper, and nutmeg, weU mixed. Wrap the quails each in a piece of bacon and buttered paper, put them on a skewer, and roast them. In the mean time, put two slices of ham, and some bits of veal into a stew-pan, set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick to the bottom, add a glass of while wine, two spoonsful of consoimne, the same of reduced espagnole, a bay- leaf, and half a clove of garlic ; boil and reduce it to the consistence of sauce, and strain it. Take up the quails, remove tlie paper and bacon, place them on a dish, and lay a blanched bay-leaf be- tween each ; add a little lemon-juice, and pimento butter to your sauce, stir’ it well ; pour it into your dish, and serve. Quails « la Milanese.*—Mi.x up the juice of a lemon, pepper, and salt, with a bit of butter, and with this stuff eight quails; fasten the legs to the body, leav- ing the foot free ; dip each quail in some allcmamle, then cover them with equal quantities of grated bread and puimesan cheese ; put them one by one in an omelet, tiien the bread and cheese again ; fry them gently in clarified butter, aud serve with a tomata sauce. Quails, Hot Pie of.*—Make a raised crust in the usual way, spread over the bottom of it some farce cuite mixed with the livers of the quails, pounded, and some sweet herbs; take eight quails, take out the thigh bones, and hall dress them in a little butter and sweetherbs; when cold, stuff each with some of the above-mentioned farce, arrange them in the pie, fill up the intestines and the centre with the remainder of the farce, season it well, lay slices of bacon over the quails; wet the edges of the paste with water, cover the pie with a very thin crust; do it over with egg, and deco- rate it according to fancy. Put it into the oven to bake, an hour and a quarter will suffice. When done, raise the top carefully, remove the bacon,take ofl'all the fat, pour in some good gravy, and serve. Quails prepared as above, may also be put in croustades, made in the form of a heart, large enough to contain a quail; eight are sufficient for a dish. Quails, to IU,ast.—Truss the birds, and stuff' them with beef-suet and sweet herbs, both shred very small, seasoned with salt, pepper, aud nutmeg ; fasten them to a spit, and put them to the fire ; baste with salt aud water when they first begin to get warm ; then dredge them with flour, and baste with butter. Put an anchovy, two or three shalots, and the juice of a Seville-orange into a little rich gravy ; set it ou the fire, shake it about, and when the anchovy is dis- solved, serve it with the quails. Gar- nish the dish with fried bread-crumbs. These birds are sometimes roasted, wrapped first in a slice of bacon, and then in a vine-leaf. They should be kept at a moderate distance from the fire. Quails, Stewed.—Put a little butter worked up witli flour, and a few green onions into a stewpan ; when brown, put in some quails, a glass of wine, the same of stock, parsley, some more small onions, a bay-leaf, and two or three cloves ; stew these till the quails are suf- ficiently done. Garnish your dish with cock’s-combs, artichoke-bottoms, fried bread, &c. Quails with Truffles.— Peel and cut some ti ulfies into rather large dice, and put them into a saucepan, with equal quantities of grated bacon and butter, a little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, four kinds of spice, and a trntne, minced small; set them on the fire seven or eight minutes; when cold, stuff someQ U I ( 427 ) QUI quails with this njixture, truss and tie up the birds in proper form, and put them into a saucepan, with slices of bacon under and over. Put into another sauce- pan some veal cut into dice, a carrot, seven or eight small onions, a clove, the trimmings of tlie truffles used above, half a bay-leaf, and a good bit of butter ; set these on the fire for a quarter of an hour, and then add a glass of white wine, and the same of stock, give it two or three boilings ; pour this seasoning over the quails, set them on the fire. Half an hour will be sufficient time to cook them, when done, take them out, drain and arrange the birds round the dish, with the sauce in the centre, on a reduced tapagnole. QUENI5LLES.*—Take six ounces of panada, ten of whatever kind of meat you intend making the quenelles, and eight of calf’s udder, all pounded sepa- rately, as fine as possible, and rubbed through a quenelle sieve; pound the meat and panada together for a quarter of an hour, then add the udder; and continue pounding fifteen or twenty minuteslonger ; put to these five drachms of spiced salt, a very little nutmeg, and the yolks of two eggs ; beat these up five minutes, then put in two more yolks, a table-spoonful of veloute or bechamel, and pound again five minutes ; then turn the whole into a pan, and set it on ice. Have ready two or three deep dishes, and a saucepan of water (nearly boiling), in which put a dessert spoon, fill another dessert spoon with the/arce, make the surface quite even with the edge of the spoon, this will give it the form of a half egg; dip the blade of a knife in the hot water, pass it over the top of the quenelle, and then raise it carefully from the spoon, by slipping that which was in the water under, and place it on the dish; proceed in the above man tier until you have as many as you wish ; then have ready some boiling stock, with which fill the dishes containing the quenelles, (do it with the utmost care, so that tlie.gj/CTieffes be neither displacea nor spoiled in shape), cover the dishes and set them on the edge of the stove to simmer. When done, drain them, and 86rvc fis occasion nisy rc(juir6» QUINCE Cakes.—Pare and core half a dozen quinces, boil them till quite soft; then rub the pulp through a sieve, and strain It; mix this with half a pint of syrupof quinces, and the same ol syrup of barberries, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar; boil the whole, to casse, and then pour it into small shallow moulds, of any shape you please; let them cool a little, and then dry them in a stove. Quince Cakes Transparent.—Take a quart of syrup of quinces, and half a pint of the syrup of barberries ; set them on a gentle fire, boil and skim them well; then add tivD pounds and a half of fine sugar, keep stirring until it reaches candy height; then take it oflf, and when nearly cold, lay it, in any form you please, on tin plates. Dry them in a stove. Quinces, Crnnphte of'.* — Take six quinces, cut them in halves, and core them ; scald and pare them neatly. Put some clear syrup into a preserving-pan, with the juice of a lemon ; when hot, add the quinces, and give them a boil toge- ther ; drain the fruit, arrange it in the compotier; leave the syrup to thicken a little, and pour it over the quinces. Quince Cream. — Take four or five ripe quinces, and roast them, but not to Soften them ; pare, core, slice them thin, and then boil them slowly in a pint of good cream, vvith a little ginger ; when tolerably thick, strain it, add sugar to your taste, and flavour it with rose- water. Quince Jelly.* — Quinces for jelly ought not to be quite ripe, they should, however, be of a fine yellow colour; take oft’the down which covers them, quarter, core, put them into a saucepan, with water enough to cover them ; set them on the fire, and when soft, lay the pieces on a sieve to drain, pressing them very slightly; strain the liquor, and measure it; clarify, and boil to casse an equal quantity of sugar; then take it off, add the liquor to it, stirring it well ; when mixed, put it on tlie fire, still stirring; as soon as the jelly spreads over the spoon, and falls from it like treacle; take it from the fire, and when cold, pour it into pots. Quinces (fo —Gather the fruit quite ripe, but perfectly sound; rub each carefully with a clean cloth, to remove the down; then quarter, and put them into bottles, corked tight. Give them half an hour’s boil in the bain-marie. Quince Marmalade.—the fruit when fully ripe, and of a fine yellow; pare, quarter, and core it. Put the quinces into a saucepan, with a little water, set them on the fire until they are quite soft; then take them out, and lay them on a sieve to drain ; rub them throu^fh, weigh the pulp ; boil an equal quantity of sugar to petit casse, then add the pulp, stir them together over the fire, until it will fall from the spoon like a jejly; the marmalade is then fit to be pat into pots, and when cold, cover them close. Quinces (to Pickle).— Pare and cut half, a dozen quinces into small pieces,RA B Q U I (4-28 and put them, with a gallon of water, and two pounds of honey, into a large saucepan ; mix them together well, and set them on a slow fire for half an hour : strain the liquor into a jar ; when quite cold, wipe the quinces perfectly dry, and put them into it; cover them very cloee. Quinces (Preserved).*— Chooae the quinces very ripe, yellow, and peifectly sound ; pare, quarter, and core them : put them into a little water, and scald them; as soon as they are soft, throw them into cold water, then put them to drain. Clarify and boil to an equal weight of sugar, put in the fruit, cover, and leave them to simmer for a quarter of an hour ; then take them from the fire, skim, and pour the preserve into a pan. In two days’ time drain off the syrup, boil it to perle, add the fruit, give the whole one boil, (covered); let it cool a little, and then simmer for a quarter of an hour, after which, leave it till next day; when, proceed as above, but boil the syrup to grand perle. As soon as the preserve is cooled, pour it into pots, add- ing to each a little quince jelly. A little prepared cochineal added to the above, will give the preserve a fine red colour; in which case the jelly ought also to be red. Quinces Preserved in fVhite Jelly.— Take as many quinces as you may re- quire, choose them sound ; pare, quarter, and core them, strewing powder-sugar over as you do them, filling up all the holes iilso with sugar ; throw in a small quantity of water, and when all are cut, add more water, and set them on a fierce fire to boil quickly. As soon as the quinces are tender, and the syrup clear, add some apple jelly, give the whole one boil, and then pour it into glasses : when cold, drain off the syrup and jelly, put them into a saucepan, and let them boil as quick as you can ; just before the jelly is taken off, put i n a small quantity of musk, or any other ingredient you may wish to flavour the preserve with, and then pour it in the glasses again, over the quinces, and when cold, cover them. This may also be coloured red by add- ing a small quantity of prepared cochi- neal ; in this case, the jelly should be red too. Quince Pudding.—1'Ake a sufficient number of ripe ouinces to yield a pound of pulp, to which put half a pound of powder-sugar, cinnamon, and ginger, of each two drachms, pounded ; mix them well. Beat up the yolks of eight eggs in a pint of cream, add ihe quince, &c. siir the whole together, flour a cloth, tie the pudding in, and boil it. Quinces, Halijia. o/.*—Take a gallon and a half of brandy, three quarts of the juice of quinces, three pounds of crushed sugar, a drachm of cinnamon, and the same of cloves, both bruised. Proceed as follows ;—put the spice into the brandy and leave it; scrape the quinces, and let the scrapings lie for twenty-four hours to ferment; after that time put them into a close linen cloth, and express the juice by means of a wine-press; add this juice to the spiced brandy, and leave it for three weeks or a mouth, then draw it ofi'; dissolve the sugar, filter, and put it to the ratafia. Coriander, or mace, or both, may be added, if approved. Quinces, the Spanish /Pay.—Pare and core ten ponnds of quinces, put them into a slewpan with a pint ana a half of water and two pounds of fine sugar, set them on a slow fire, and when they begin to dry, moisten them with rose-water and sack, or white wine ; then press the paste through a coarse sieve, add two pounds of sugar, a little orange-flower, and rose- water. When sufficiently done, it will come off'clean, if dropped on a plate ; then set it aside to cool. Put it into shallow pots, strew perfumed comfits over, and cover them close. Quinces, Syrup of.*—Pare and scrape some very ripe quinces into a linen cloth, press out the juice, which put in a very warm place, or where it is exposed to the sun, until all the fecula falls to the bot- tom ; then strain it well, and for every quarter of a pound of juice, take one pound of sugar; mix them together, and boil the whole to perle ; take it off', and when the syrup is nearly cold, it may be bottled. Take care to keep the bot- tles well corked. Quince Tarf.—Take some preserved quinces, make a syrup with some sugar and water, of which, and the preserve, take an equal weight, and put it into a preserving-pan ; boil, skim, and then put in the fruit; when tolerably clear, lay tlie quinces in a tart-dish with puff- paste as usual; cover and bake it: as .“oon as it is done, raise the top gently, pour in the syrup, ice it, and serve. R. RABBITS.—The rules for choosing rabbits are the same as for choosing hares; and observe the same rules .as for skinning and trussing hai-es, except, in skinning rabbits, cut off the cars, and if two together are roasted, skewer each head against the shoulder outwards, wfitli four or live skewers through the bodies, to fasten them well to the spit. RabbitsR A B ( 429 ) R A B jj may be dressed according to the receipt H for chickens. Rabbit {Atelets o/).*—Take the meat from some roasted rabbits, remove the II skin and sinews, and cut tlie meat, some I streaky bacon, champignons, and trulfles, I into pieces the size of a penny-piece ; " dip all these in an atetet sauce, (see that article.) ; have ready half a dozen silver IskewerSj on which run the above-men- tioned pieces alternately ; rub them over with melted butter and yolks of eggs beaten together; broil them a quarter J of an hour; dish, and serve with a clear I aspic. Rabbits {to Blanch),—PvX the rabbit ; on the fire in a little cold water, let it ( boil j as soon as it boils, take it out, and r put it for a few minutes into cold water. [1 Rabbits Boiled.—Before they are boil- !< ed, hold the heads for a few minutes in a ii saucepan of water that is boiling, which u will prevent the disagreeable appearance I they otherwise have in cutting up ; they P will take about half an hour boiling, ac- :i cording to their size. If boiled, and smothered with onion is sauce, melt the butter with milk instead of water. Rabbit (Broiled).—Take a couple of young rabbits, cut them up, and put them to steep for a few hours in a little oil, mixed with parsley, leeks, a few mushrooms, and a clove of garlic, all shred fine, salt and pepper; roll each piece of rabbit in a rasher of bacon, and put them, with a part of the seasoning, into pieces of white paper; butter the papers inside; broil upon a gridiron over a. very slow fire, and serve hot in the papers. _ .Rabbit Fillets en Cartouche.* — Put into a pan, about the size of an egg of grated bacon, double the quantity of but- ter, four de.ssert-.<poonsful of oil; make these quite hot, and add three dessert- spoonsful of champignons, minced very small, and soueezed thoroughly in a cloth; leave the pan on the fire for a quarter of an hour, then put in a spoonful of shalots, well washed and minced, give them a turn, and add the same of shred parsley ; stir the whole together over the fire ; your fillets being ready, cut each in half, and put them into the above, with salt, pepper, and pounded spice; when they are brown on both sides take them I out, and set them by to cool. In the mean time, cut as many square pieces of paper as you have bits of rabbits, and each large enougli to contain the half fillets; rub them over with oil, lay a tliin slice of bacon on every one, on this put pie fillet with some of the above season- ing ; wrap the paper over in the form of a cartouche, taking care to fold the ends of the paper so that none of its contents can escape; place the.se on a gridiron over a clear fire, turn them frequently when done, serve them dry, or with a clear gravy, as you please. Rabbit Brains, Coguilles of.*—Take the brains from sixty rabbits, soak all the blood out; scald them in a litpe water, vinegar and salt; cool, and trim them nicely. Do up some champignons in the juice of a lemon and a little butter, then put them into some affewiawrfe; give it a boil, add the brains, do them lightly, fill the shells with this; cover them with bread crumbs, grated parmesan, and a little butter; colour them in the oven, and serve. Rabbits in a Fricassee.— Take two fine white rabbits, and cut them in pieces, by cutting oil' the legs, shoulders, and back ; blanch them in boiling water, and skim them for one minute ; stir a few trimmings of mushrooms in a stewpan over the fire, with a bit of butter, till it begins to fry, then stir in a spoonful of flour; mix into the flour, a little at a time, nearly a quart of good consomme, which set on the fire, and when it boils, put the rabbits in, and let thena boil gently till done, then put them into another stewpan, and reduce the sauce till nearly as thick as paste ; mix in about half a pint of good boiling cream, and when it becomes the thickness of hecha- melle sauce in general; squeeze it through the tammy to the rabbits ; make it very hot, shake in a few mushrooms, the yolk of an egg, and a little cream, then serve it to table. Rabbits may also be preserved, white or brown, in the same manner as chickens. Rabbit Gafawffae.*—Bone a rabbit entirely (except the head) take away the meat of the thick part of the thigh, lard it with seasoned lardons; mince Uie meat taken off'with the fillets of twoother rabbits, take an equal quantity of bacon, minced, mix them together, add salt, pepper, pounded spice, and minced truf- fles ; lay the rabbit open on a cloth, sea- son, and spread a layer of the farce all over it, on this place.tongue d Vecarlate, truffles, and lardons, in small pieces; proceed thus, alternately, until the rabbit IS full; then form it, as well as you can, into its original shape; tie slices of bacon all over it, wrap it in the cloth, and tie it again ; lay slices of bacon in a br.aising- pan, put in the rabbit, a knuckle of veal, the bones of the rabbit, two carrots, three onions (onestuck with cloves), two bay-leaves, a little thyme, parsley, scal- lions, half a bottle of white wine, a ladle- ful of stock, and a little salt; set the panR A B ( 430 ) R A B on the fire to simmer for two hours, then take from the fire, and in half an hour’s time take out the rabbit carefully. \Vhen quite cold take it out of the cloth, glaze, and serve it. Ra obits Gibehtte.*—C\it a rabbit into pieces as near of a size as possible ; make 8 roux with a quarter of a pound of butter and two dessert-spoonsful of flour: when it is of a good colour put in the rabbit to brown, add a quart of good stock, and half the quantity of white wine, stir till it boils, then put in some champigmms, streaky bacon (previously browned), a bunch of parsley, scallions, alittle thyme, and a hay-leaf; set the whole on a brisk fire to reduce the liquor, season with salt and pepper to the taste. Toss up about thirty small onions in a little butter, and add them, with some bits of eel, to the above when about three parts done. Take care to remove all fat; take out the herbs and serve. Rabbit (e« Hattelettes).—Cut up one or more rabbits, and stew them with half a glass of white wine, some stock, a bunch of herbs, salt, and coarse pepper; when done, and the sauce reduced so as to ad- here to ihe meat, let them cool; then put the pieces upon small skewers, wet them with an egg beat up, and grate bread over them ; broil, and serve dry upon the skewers. Rabbit Loaf.*—Take a double mould, butter andfill the space round the smaller one, with a rabbit quenelle (see that article); place your mould in the bain- marie to simmer. When the farce is sufficiently done, turn it on a dish; take care no water gets into it; put into the space left by the smaller mould, the brains, small fillets, and kidnies (lightly fried) ; mix some espagnole with half a glass of champagne and ^fumet of game, reduce this and pour it over the contents of the loaf; glaze the exterior, and serve. Rabbits, Marinade of.*—Take some cold roasted rabbits, cut them in pieces, trim them nicely, and put them into a marinade (see that article); when suffi- ciently flavoured, drain them thoroughly, put the pieces into a batter, and fry them a nice colour. Serve with fried parsley. Rabbit (il/<weerf).—Take the remains of a rousted rabbit, cut off all the ine.nt, and mince it with a little roast mutton. Then break the bones of the rabbit into small pieces, and put them into a stew- pan, with a slice of butter, some shalots, half a clove of garlic, thyme, a bay-leaf, and basil; give these a few turns over the fire, then shake in a little flour; moisten with a glass of red wine, and the same quantity of stock, and let it boil over a slow fire for half an hour ; strain it off, and put in the minced meat, adding salt and coarse pepper; tieat the whole, wiihout boiling, and serve hot; garnish with fried bread. Rabbits, in a Minute.* — Cut your rabbits into pieces, wipe them perfectly dry ; put a quarter of a pound of butter into a Btewpan, set it on the fire, and when warm, put jn the rabbit with a little pounded spice, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg ; let the fire be brisk, and as soon as the pieces are browned, add a little shred parsley and shalots, leave it three or four minutes longeron the fire, and then serve. Ten or fifteen minutes are sufficient to cook this dish. Rabbit Pie.—Cut a couple of young rabbitsinto quarters, and bruise a quarter of a pound of bacon in a mortar, with the livers, some pepper, salt, a little mace, parsley, cut small, and a few leaves of sweet basil; when these are all beaten fine, line your pie-dish with a nice crust, then put a layer of the se.asoning at the bottom of the dish, and pin in the rab- bits; pound some more bacon in a mor- tar, mix with it some fresh butter, and cover the rabbits with it, and over that lay thin-slices' of bacon; put on the cover, and place it in the oven ; it will be done in about two hours; when baked, take off tbe cover, take out the bacon and skim off tlie fat, and if there is not a suf- ficient quantity of gravy, add some rich mutton or veal gravy. Rabbit Pie (Raised).—Cut your rab- bits in piece.s. and put them into a stew- pan, with a bit of fresh butter, lemons juice, pepper, salt, parsley, tbyme, sha- lots, chopped very’ fine, and a little ounded mace. When the pieces of rab- it are about half done, lay them on a dish, and when cold, raise the crust; put light force-meat at the bottom ; the rabbit upon it, and more force-meat upon tbe top. Cover it, and put it in a mode- rate oven to bake gently ; when done, take off the cover, and add a ragoftt of sweetbreads, cock’s-combs, &c., and serve. Rabbits Portuguese. — Cut off the heads of a couple of rabbits, turn the backs upwards, the two legs stripped to the end, and trussed with a couple of skewers in the same manner aschickens, the wings turned like the pinions of a chicken ; lard and roast them with good gravy ; if they arc intended for boiling, they'should not be larded, but be served with bacon, and greens, or celery sauce. Rabbits (Pof/ci/).—Take two or three young, but full-grown rabbits, cut them up. and take oft the leg liones at the thigh, season them well with pepper.RAB { 431 ) R AB |j inace, cay6niiP> salt, and allspice, all in 8 very fine powder, and put them into a small pan, placing them as closely to- gether as possible. Make tlie top as smooth as you can. Keep out tlie heads i and carcasses, but take off' the meat about 1 the neck. Put plenty of butter, and let the whole bake gently. Let it reniain in the pan for two days, then put it into ! small pots, adding butter. The livers should also be put in. Rabbit Preserved*—Having boned a rabbit, lard it with bacon and ham; season it well iilside and out, roll it up, ; beginning with the legs, make it tight, and tie it. Put it into astewpan, with some oil, thyme, bay-leaf, and basil; set these on the fire till done enough (but without boiling). When sufficiently cooked, lake out the rabbit, drain, let it cool, and then cut it into small pieces, which put into bottles ; fill them with oil and cover with wet bladders. When re- (juired for table, take them out, cut them 11 into fillets, and place on a dish with shred I: parsley and oil. ; Rabbits (Pulled).— Half boil your I rabbits, with an onion, a little whole I pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece j of lemon-peel; pull the flesh into flakes ; ut to it a little ol the liquor, a bit of utter rolled in flour, pepper, salt, nut- ,1 meg, chopped parsley, and the liver I boiled and bruised ; boil this up, shaking I it round, and seive. I Rabbit, Quenelles of.*—Take the fil- I lets and legs of rabbits, separate the [ meat from the skin and sinews, pound it I thoroughly, and ruh it ihrinigh a-guenelle I sieve ; take an equal quantity of panada, the same of butter, each pounded sepa- rately, and passed thiough a quenelle I sieve ; then pound all three together, in ■ a little time add salt, pepper, and spice, still pounding; add, occasionally, three yolks, and two whole eggs ; when suffi- ciently pounded, make up a ball of it, put it into a saucepan to try if it be pro- I perly seasoned. Whip three whites of I eggs to a very firm froth, stir it inio the I farce with a wooden spoon, instead of the ! pestle, and finisi: as usual. I Rabbit Quenelles en Terrine.*—Make 1 your farce, as usual, except that a smaller quantity of butter should be used, poach them in halls, drain them, and lard each carefully with truffles.cut in small slips ; when larded, put them into a stewpan, with cock's-coinbs and kidneys, two small veal nuts, lamb’s sweetbreads ; put into another stewpan trto ladleslul of veloute., one ol fumet of game, halt a ' bottle of madeira, and some chainpignons, i previously fried lightly in a little water, and the juice of a lemon ; reduce this I I I sauce to half, then take out the cham- pignons, and put them to \\vi qtienelles, &c.; make a liaison with four yolks of eggs and an ounce of butter, stir it over the fire, but do not let it boil; then strain the sauce over tlie quenelles, make the whole hot together, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Rabbits to Roast.—They may be roasted with stuffing, and gravy, the same as hare. Serve with sauce made of the liver and parsley, chopped, in melted butter, pepper, and salt. Rabbit Salad.—Take some crumb of bread and cut it into small pieces, the same as you cut bacon for larding ; fry it in butter, let it be a nice colour, and then drain it; take the remains of a rabbit that has been roasted, cut the meat into slices, and arrange it in the dish for table upon the fried bread ; add two anchovies, cut very small, and well washed, some capers, and some small white onions, boiled ; the whole taste- fully intermixed ; season with salt, coarse pepper, oil, and vinegar. The seasoning is not usually added until the rabbit is placed{upon tlie table. Rabbits Legs au Soldi.*—Bone the legs, and lard them very closely with bacon, seasoned with salt, pepper, and pounded spice ; warm some butter in a pan, put in the legs, and fry them lightly over a very hot stove ; then add a dessert spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, two of veloute,^ bay-leaf, some champignons, half a bottle of white wine, and a bunch of parsley and scallions ; set it on a fierce fire, to reduce the liquor ; skim it well, and when done and sufficiently reduced, take out the rabbit legs, and set them to cool, stir the yolks of five eggs, and a small piece of butter into the sauce, and pour it over the legs. When cold, dip them in bread crumbs, and let them thorouglily imbibe the sauce alternately. Beat up five eggs with a little salt, and pepper, dip the legs in, bread them all over, and give them a good form; fry them in a very hot pan to a nice colour, and serve with fried parsley. Rabbit Sok/).’*’—Cut an old rabbit into pieces, put them into a quart of water; boil it well, take out all the bones, and beat the meat in a marble mortar, ns for potting ; add a little salt, mace, and white pepper, to your taste ; stir it into the liquor the rabbit was boiled in, with the addition of a very little cream. N. B. The meat ol the whole rabl'it is too much for one quart; query, would it not be enough for two ? Kaubits, en S'/rprisc—-Roast a couple of young rabbits, cut ll.eir heads oil veiy close to the shoulders; take off' all the IRAD ( 432 RAI ttieat from tlie back, cut it into small pieces, and put them into a stewpan, witli some milk tliickened with a bit of butter rolled in flour, a little nutmeg, and salt, and let them stew for six or eight minutes, until the sauce becomes of the consistence of cream ; make a forcemeat with a pound of veal, the same quantity of suet, an equal quantity of bread-crumbs, two anchovies, some lemon-peel grated, a little thyme, and a nutmeg, grated; mix the whole together, with the yolks of two eggs : place it round the rabbits, leaving each side of the back-bone open to put the meat in which was cut oflf; lay in the meat, and smooth it over with a raw egg: make it square at both ends, butter a aish, and put the rabbits upon it with great care, and put them into the oven to bake tor three hours; they must be done to a fine brown colour ; when done, place them on a dish, and pour over them gravy, thickened with butter, add the squeeze of a lemon. Rabioles.*—Take a pound of flour, place it on a slab, make a hole in the middle, into which put three eggs, work them well in, until your paste becomes firm and smooth, then roll it out as thin as paper, adding as little flour as pos- sible. Have ready some quenelle farce, mixed with a little grated Parmesan, bur- rage, (scalded and shred), some boiled milk, and cream cheese, nutmeg, cinna- mon, the yolks of two eggs, and some pepper, or a mignonette. Lay this/arce in small portions, at equal distances, over half the paste, moisten the edges, and turn the other half on it; press it down round the bits of/arce, and then cut it into small square pieces; put these into some good stock, when they have boiled five minutes and rise to the top, take them out, and drain them. Take a soup tureen, pour a ladieful of gravy into it, then put in a layer of the rabioles, another of Parmesan cheese, grated, some melted butter, and then just cover them with gravy. Seive very hot. RADISHES, au Blond.* — Boil in some stock, and drain your radishes, then put them into a stewpan, with veal blond; simmer them for half an hour; add a little nutmeg and verjuice ; stir them occasionally, and when the radishes are flavoured and well coloured, dish them, strew bread-crumbs over, and brown it in the oven. Radishes, in. Broth.* — Take some young radishes, pick and scald them, cut them into halves or quarters accord- ing to their size, and boil them with a slice of haenn in some stock. In a little time take them out, drain, and put them into another stewpan, with con- somme, or veal gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Let them stew gently in this till they are flavoured, of a good colour, and the sauce pretty thick ; then serve them. Ragout, Chipolata.* — Cut into the shape of an olive, twenty-four pieces of carrots, the same of turnips, onions and chesnuts ; blanch, and then dress them in some coTisowiwi^, with a little sugar; boil a dozen small sausages, and as many slices of sfreaky bacon in water; put all your garnish into a stewpan, with twenty champignons, a ladleful of espagnole, first working it up with the bottoms of the entree, for which the ragout is in- tended. Serve as hot as possible. Ragout, a. la Financiere.* — Take twenty-four large champignons, and as many truffles, cut into little balls, put them into a stewpan with half a bottle of Madeira, two allspice, a little tomata, and an ounce of veal glaze; reduce the whole to a jelly, and then add four ladiesful of espa^ole ; work up two spoonsful of veal blond; boil it up, set it on the side of the stove, reduce, and strain it, then put the champignons and truffles into another saucepan, pour the sauce over them, with the addition of twenty-four cocks’ combs, and kidnies, twenty-four quenelles, twelve lamb or veal sweetbreads, either sliced or not, as you please. Ragout d la Providence.* — Take twenty pieces of well salted streaky ba- con, as many small sausages boiled, twenty champignons, as many quenelles, made of the shape and size ot thesaru- sages, peel and turn the same number of chesnuts, cut twelve truffles into balls, and put all these articles into a stewpan, with a glass of madeira, a little glaze, cocks’-combs and kidmes; add some clarified gravy, make the i^oflt quite hot and serve. Twenty or thirty olives, turned and blanched, may be added, if yott think proper. Ragout « la Toulouse.*—Take the same ingiedients as for the Financiere, put them into a saucepan, with some half glaze of fowl, dress all together, ex- cept the quenelles; add a ladieful of alle- mande. I’ut your ragout into the bain- marie, to heat it without letting it boil. If the sauce he too thick, dilute it with fowl consomme. ' Raisin (Fine.* — One hundred of Smyrnas to twenty gallons of water, wine measure; boil the water with half a pound of hops in for an hour; let it stand till cold ; then put it on the fruit; let it remain three weeks, sfriing it every day ; press it olT, and put it into the cask ; do not bung it down till theR AS 433 R A M I fermentation has ceased; when it has ) stood aliout a year, draw it off clear, put i it into the barrel again, and let it stand i to settle before it is bottled ; before it I is bunged down close, put a quart oi j hrai'idy to a hogshead of wine. What is I thick should be run through a flannel 1 bag. I N. B. The time for steeping depends ^ on the warmth of the weather ; when the 1 fruit is swelled ready to break, it is in a il fit state to press. ! Raisis /f^ene Vinegar.*—After press- : ing oft’the wine, lay the fruit in aheap to I heat two or three days ; then, to every I hundred of fruit, put fifteen gallons of j water; let it stand in the tub, stirring it < every day till it becomes tour; then t strain it off, put it into the cask, and fer- f ment it with a toast covered with yeast; I lay a piece of slate over the bung-hole ; K set it in ihe sun during the summer, and I in winter in a warm place. . Raisin Vinegar,—To every two pounds ij of Malaga raisins, put four quarts of s spring-water ; lay a tile over ttie bung, fl and set it in the sun till fit for use. A il stone-bottlewill doas wellasa cask. Plac- il jng it in th.e chimney corner, and keep- I ing it there a proper time, will do as well I as placing it in the sun. I RAMEQUINS.—Take a quarter of a [ pound of Cheshire cheeie, scraped, the f same quantity of Gloucest‘-r cheese, and [ beat them in a mortar, v/ith a quarter of II a pound ol fresh butter, the ymlks of four ti eggs, and the inside of a French roll, 9 boiled in cream till soft; when all is beaten to a paste, mix it with the whites h of the eggs, previously beaten, and put li the paste into small paper cases, made I ratherlong than square, and put them to II bake in a Dutch oven, till ofa fine brown. 1] They should be served quite hot. You II may, if you think proper, add a glass of II white wine. M Ramequins.*—Take half a pint ivater, R three ounces of Gruyere cheese, a liltle }] Parmesan, an equal quantity of butter, ^ .salt, and pepper ; pul them into a stew- Span, set it on the fire ; when the water boils, take it oft', mix sifted flour and ^ eggs with it, as directed for Choux; pour !your preparation into buttered tins, dorez them, and lay on each a thin slice of Gruyere cheese ; bake them in a mo- derate oven. »i Ramequi.ns d fa CVeine.*—Put into a saucepan, two ounces of fresh butter, and two glasses of good milk ; when it begins ! to boil, take it from the fire, and add five ounccsof sifted flour, mix this well; '1 then replace it on the fire, stirring con- I stantly for three minutes; pourihe paste into another saucepan, to mix it with fi two ounces more of butter, two of Parme- san cheese grated, and two eggs, these being thoroughly amalgamated, add a pinch of aspoonful of powder sugar, an egg, and three ounces of Gru- yere cheese, cut into dice; work this mixture well, and put to it three spoons- ful of whipped cream; your paste ought to be the consistence of choux ; lay the ramequi7is rather smaller than thec/itwiai, dorez them in the same manner, and put them in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. RASPBERRY Cakes.*—Gather some raspberries before they are quite ripe, pick, and lay them in a stove to dry; then beat them in a mortar. Take a pound and quarter of fine sugar, clarify and boil it to cam'; then weigh half a pound of raspberries, dried as above ; throw them into the syrup, with half a spoonful of white of egg, beaten in cream; stir it carefully, give it a boil, and pour it in moulds or paper cases. Raspbebries, Co7npoteof.* — Choose your fruit when quite dry, and perfectly sound; pick them carefully, and put them into cold water ; boil some clarified sugar to la plume ; drain the raspberries, put them into the syrup, take the pan from the fire, and leave it. A little time after stir the fruit gentlyq give them one boil, and then put them into a cowpo- tier. Raspberries, Consei'veof.*— Beat up a pound of raspberries to a syrup, to which add the juice of a quarter of a pound of red currants, strained ; put the pan on a moderate fire till the fruit is reduced to half. In the meantime, boil a pound and a quarter of sugar to la plume.! then stir it continually till it whitens; when a little cooled, mix the fruit with it thoroughly, and then pour it into your moulds to dry. Raspberry Cream.*—Whip some good cream to a fine froth ; beat up powder- sugar with ripe raspberries, rub this through a sieve, and mix it as lightly as possible with the whipped cream ; lay it carefully in a china howl, or in glasses ; if the former, garnish it with a string of ripe raspberries. Raspberry Cream.* —Boil an runce and half of isinglass in as little water as possible, strain it, and add r.aspberry syrup suflicient to give it a pleasing colour ; then add half a pint of white wine and two onnees of pounded-sngar ; iill this to he put to a pint of thick cream, and to be well beaten before it is put into the moulds. Haspberiues. Creme of (liqueur).*— Take tour pounds of fresh gathered raspberries, pick, and infuse them for four and twenty hours in a gallon and a 2 1*434 R A S R A S half of biaiuly, and a quart of water; at the end of that time, distil the infusion : •lissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in seven pints of water ; mix this syrup in the liqueur, filter and bottle. Kh&var.nnY Dumplings, — Take some ■good pufl'paste, roll it out, and spread raspberry jam over it; roll it up, and boil itrather more than an hour; cut it into five slices ; pour melted butter into the dish, grate sugar round, and serve. Raspbeiuiy Fritters. — Grate two Na- ples biscuits, or the crumb of a French roll; put to eithera pintofboilingcream. When this is cold, add to it the yolks of four eggs, lyell beaten; beat all well together with some raspberry juice ; drop tills in very small quantities, into a pan of boiling lard; stick them with blanchedalmonds, sliced. RAspBEanv Ice.* — Press the juice from as many raspberries as will yield a pound and a half; put it into a glazed pan, and leave it for four days. Then carefully raise the skin that has formed on tlie top of it, pour off’ tlie juice into another vessel; clarify a pound and a half of sugar, with a pint and a half of water, add the juice, and give them half a dozen boils ; if not sufficiently red, put in a root of orkanet, wliich leave in till oj the proper colour; strain the prepara- tion through a sieve; when cold, put it into the sabotiere, and freeze it. See Ice. Raspberry Ice (IFaler).* — Pick and crush as many raspberries as will yield a pound of pulp; put this into a pound of clarified sugar boiled to petit lisse, with the juire of two lemons; mix them loge- tlier well, if too thick add aglass of water, put the preparation into a mould, and freeze it as directed. See Ice. Raspberry Jelly.*—Take two thirds of raspberries, and one third red cur- rants; pick them, press the juice through a sieve into a pan, cover, and place it in a cellar, or any other cool place for three days; at the end of that time raise the thick skin formed at the top, and pour the juice into another vessel: weigli It, and pot it, with half the quantity of sugar, into a preserving pan, set it on the fire; a great deal of scum will rise at first, which must all be taken off’; leave it on the fire for an hour ; then pour a few drops on a cold plate, if it coolsofthe proper consistence for jellies, take itfiom the lire, and whilst hot pour it into p 'ts. Let the jelly be quite cold before the pots are covered. R,\spBEaniEs to Keep.* — This fruit may be bottled for keeping like cherries. They must not be more than just ripe. Raspberries qf Murchpatie.*—Taken pound of marchpane, the juice of four lemons, a quarter of a pound of raspberry jelly, and a little cochineal; mix these together with a strong wooden spatula: then add two handsful of flour, and some powder sugar ; when well worked up, roll them into pieces about the size of a linger, cut these into dice, roll each into a ball, pinch the top into a point, 80 as to resemble the form of a raspberry: then put them one by one into paper cases, which place in a dry warm 'place, for eight or ten days. At the end of that time, put a portion of syrup of raspberries, a little cochineal, and a small quantity of powder-sugar into a pan ; mix them together with a spoon, and then throw into it a couple of hands- ful of the raspberries; lake the. pan in both hands, and shake it about, so that the raspberries may be equally co- vered with the red syrup; then put sugar a la grele on a large sheet of paper, spread it out a little, and while the rasp- berries are wet with the syrup, throw them into the sugar ; then take the four corners of the paper, shake itabcut well, by wbich means the sugar will adhere to the raspberries in all parts, and give, them a perfect resemblance to the real fruit; take them out carefully one by one, lay them on paper, and pul them in a warm place for some days. These artificial raspberries are of a pleasant flavour, and will keep several years. Raspberry Marmalade.* -— Take double the weight of raspberries to that of sugar. Rub the fruit through a sieve, and put the pulp into a sauMpan ; set it on the fire, and stir till it is reduced to half; then pour on the sugar, previously clarified and boiled to petit boule, stir it well in, put it on the fire, give it a few boils, and then pour it into pots. Raspberries Preserved.*— Take five or si.x pounds of red, bin not too ripe raspberries, pick, and put them into a preserving pan, with an eqii.al weight of clarified sugar, boiled iapetiibouU; when they have boiled up about a dozen times, skim, and pour the whole in',0 a pan till the next day. then drain the fruit, and put it into jars ; put to the syrup about two glasses of cherry juice, previously strained ; boil the sugar to la «<7ppf,.and then pour it over the raspberries; add afterwards, about a spoonful of curr.mt jelly to each pot, .aud when cold, lay on brandy papers, and t e them down. RA.spBEniiY Ratafia.* — Take three pints of raspberry juice, and half a pint of cherry-juii e; dissolve in these a pound and a hall of fine sugar ; let it stand some time, and then add three quarts of the best brandy ; strain it, and when quiteRAT ( 435 ) REM 2 P 2 clear, bottle it. Be careful to keep it well corked. k.\sPBEHRV Tart. — Line your disk will) a nice puli'paste, lay in sugar and fruit, put bars across, ami bake. Raspberry Tart with Cream.—\Aw a patty-pan with tliin puH'paste,lay in some ra.«pDerries, and strew some very finely sifted sugar over them ; cover them with pafl'paste, and bake it; when done, cut it open, and put in half a pint of cream, in which has been previously beaten the yolks of two or three eggs, and sweet- ened with a little sugar; when this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. Raspberry Wine.* — Thoroughly wash, clean, and stone, three pounds of sun raisins ; then boil two gallons of spring water for half an hour, as soon as it is taken oft'the fire, pour it into a deep stone jar, and put in the raisins, with six q^uarts of fresh raspberries, and two pounds of loaf sugar ; stir the whole well together, cover the jar closely, and set it in a cool place, stirring it twice a day ; ! then pass it through a hair sieve, put the liquor into a close vessel, adding one ' pound more of loaf sugar ; let it stand : for a day and a night to settle, after which , bottle it, adding a little more sugar. Raspberry h inegar.,Symji of.*—Take a large wide-mouthed glass bottle, pour I into it two quarts of the best vinegar, and as many picked raspberries as the ■ bottle will contain, taking care that the vinegar does come above them ; let these ! stand covered for a week. At the end of I that time, pour both vinegar and rasp- berries on a silk sieve, pressing the latter lightly, that the juice may run through 1 with the vinegar ; when perfectly clear, I weigh it, and put double its weight of ! fine sugar, crushed ; pour the vinegar I in, close the matrass, and set it in a I moderately heated bain marie-, as soon as the sugar is dissolved, let the fire go ( out gradually, and when the syrup is I cold, bottle it. The corks should be ' sealed, to exclude the air entirely. RATAFIA of Four Fruits.*—Take ten pounds of very ripe cherries, two ' pounds and a half of raspberries, five I pounds and a half of red and two pounds of blackcurrants; pick, and mix these : fruits together, press the juice from them, measure it, and for every quart of juice, take half a pound of sugar, and an I equal quantity of brandy ; dissolve the sugar 111 the juice, then put in tlie brandy, a drachm of mace, and two I drachms of cloves. Let the whole stand I some time, filter, and bottle it. Keep : tliem well corked. Ratafia of Seeds.* — Take throe drachms of each of the following seeds : anise, cummin, fennel, dill, coriander, carraway, and angelica ; bruise and in- fuse them for a month, in a gallon of brandy. Dissolve two pounds of sugar in a pint of water, add this syrup at the end of the above-mentioned time to the infusion ; then filter, and bottle it. Katafia, without Sugar or Syptp.*— Press the juice from some cherries into a pan, and leave it a quarter of an hour, then put it into a large bottle, with the kernels, and also some apricot kernels; to this add (if you wish the ratafia a deep colour) the juice of two or three pounds of black-cherries. Put to your juice half or a third of its quantity of the best brandy; then bottle it, and when the fermentation has ceased, cork the bottles. If the air is excluded, this ratafia will keep for many years. RAVIGOTE.* —Shred small a little chervil, chives, pimpernel, and tarragon; this latter ought to predominate; (the mixture of these articles constitutes the ravigote) ; take sorne veloute, two des- sert spoonsful of vinegar, and a little whole pepper, make them quite hot, add a bit of butter and the ravigote', stir till the butter is quite dissolved, and serve. Ravigote with Oil.*—Mince the ravi- gote, and put it into a saurepan with a ladleful of cold veloute, salt, and whole pepper, stir it well to mix it thoroughly, then add two ladiesful of oil, mix that well also, then pourin fouror five dessert spoonsful of vinegar; keep stirring it till very smooth, and the meat or fi.sh salad be ready for it to be poured on. REMOULADE.*—Put some mustard into a basin, and mix it up with some water, add to this a little shalot, and ravigote, both shred, six siioonsful of oil, four of vinegar, some salt, and whole pepper ; mix them well in, and then put in the yolks of two raw eggs, and con- tinue stirring until the sauce is very smooth ; it ought to be rather thick. Remoueade (frVc'Cw).*—Scald a ravi- gote well, press, and pound it, then add salt, whole pepper, a glassfull of mus- tard, pound again, mix in a glass of oil, the yolks of two or three raw eggs, and four or five dessert spoonsful of vinegar ; when all these ingredients are thoroughly amalgamated, strain the whole through a bolting like a puree; it ought to be rather thick. If not green enough, add a little spinach essence. IIemoueade, Indian.* — Pound the yolks of ten hard eggs to a paste, dilute it with eight spoonsful of oil, put in one at a lime, ami continue pounding all the time ; then add about a dozen allspice, a436 ) RIC RIC ten Rpoonful of saffron, four or five gpoons- ful of vinegar, salt, and pepper; amal- gamate the whole perfectly, strain it through a bolting-cloth, and serve it in a sauce tureen. This sauce should be rather thick, as well as the preceding. RENNET.—As soon as the calf is killed, take out the stotnach, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared oMhe curd always found in it. Let it drain for a few hours, after which sew it up with two large handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted ; or keep it in the salt, wet, and soak a hit, which will do over and over by fresh water. Re.nnet.—Prepare the maw the same as in the above receipt: on the following day, put a handful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar, a handful of rose-leave.<, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjorum,and two large spoons- ful of salt, into two quarts of fresh spring water ; let them boil gently till the water is reduced to three pints, then strain itoffiand when only milk warm, pour it on the maw. Slice a lemon, and add to it; in two days, strain it again, and put into bottles. Aromatic herbs may be put in also ; take care that it is sufficiently salt. If the maw be again salted for a few days, and dried as above, it will be quite as fit for use as before ; it should be kept in a cool, dry place. A small quantity of the liquid is sufficient for turning. RH UBARH Tart.—het the stalks be of a good size, take off' the thin skin, and cut them into lengths of four or five inches ; lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water; cover with another dish, and let it simmer slowly for an hour upon a hot hearth, or do them in a block-tin saucepan. As soon as cold, make it into a tart; when tender, the baking tlie crust will be suf- ficient ; or you may cut tlie stalks into little bits, tlie size of goo.seberries, and make your tart the same as gooseberry tart. ■ RICE Biscuits.*—Talce the grated rind of a lemon, the whites of sixteen eggs, the yolks of six, half a pound of rice flour, ten ounces of powder sugar, two ounces of apple, and the same ol apricot, marmalade, and two ounces of orange-flowers. Pound the marmalades and orange-flowers together, then add the whites of eggs, whipped to a snow ; beat the yolks with the sugar fora quarter of an hour, put them to the rest, and when well mixed in, add tlie iemon-peel and rice-flour; work all together, pour llie preparation into paper cases, Luke them in a moderate oven, and glaze them. Rice Bread.—Take a pound of rice, and let it simmer in two quarts of water till it is quite tender; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it thoroughly with four pounds of flour, adding yeast and salt, the same as for other bread ; the proper quantity of yeast to be used, is about four spoonsful ; knead it well; then set it to rise before the fire. A portion of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than otiior. Rice Cake.* — Take six ounces of ground rice, six ounces of flour, three- quarters of a pound of fine sugar sifted, nine eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately; mix all well together, grate in the rind of a lemon, and beat it well half an hour. Rice, Casserole of.*—Take a pound and a half of Carolina rice, wash it tho- roughly in several waters (warm), and then put it into a saucepan, at least eight inches in diameter; moisten_ it with stock, in this proportion ; if the rice lies an inch thick, let the stock come two inches above it, and four ladiesful of fowl skimmings ; place the saucepan on a hot stove; when the rice boils, set it on the side, and skim it; then put it on hot ashes, cover, and let it boil slowly for fifteen to twenty minutes ; stir it, let it boil as before; in twenty or twenty-five minutes, stir it again ; if by this time the rice is perfectly soft, take it ofh but if not add a little more liquid, and continue boiling until it is so; place tbe saucepan aslant on the side of the stove that the fat may drain away and be taken oflT easily. As soon as the rice is lukewarm, work it into a firm, smooth, paste, with a spatula; it can hardly be worked up too much, as every grain_ of rice ought to pass under pressure (if necessary, add more stock, a very little at a time). When the paste is thus thoroughly wt rk- ed up, form your casserole of it, first lay- ing it in a he.ap. lour or five inches high, and seven in diameter ; do it with the liand as you would a raised crust; make the ornaments of the cuter surface with the point of a knife, or by carrots cut for the purpose, taking care that the deco- rations he detached from the mars of rice, at least an incli ; attention to this particular will not only add to the beauty of the form, but to the colour also, as tke raised parts will be lightly coloured, while tlie ground will be ouite wliite. IVlien properly formed, mask the whole surface with clarified butter, and place itRI C 437 ) RIG 2 P 3 in a hot oven for an hour and a half, by .1 which time it will be of a fine clear yel- ii low. Take off the top of your cawerofe, I clear away all the rice from the inside I that does not adhere to the crust (whicli I oujfht to be very thin), and mix it with j bec/iamelle, espagnole, or whatever other sauce may be proper, put it in again, il and then fill your casserole, with such ragouts as your fancy may dictate; glaze I the surface of the outer ornaments, and serve it. Water, with butter and salt, is fre- ' fluently thought preferable to the stock, I See., as the rice is thereby rendered much ' whiter. Rice Cheese.*—Boil an ounce of rice, thick as hasty pudding, in rather less than half a pint of milk (new) ; pour it 1 hot on an ounce and half of butter, the I same weight of Lisbon sug.ar, mixing it I well together; let it stand till cold ; then ;i add one egg, and the yolk of another, ;i and a little white wine. Rice Cream.*—Mix some rice flour ] with half a glass of cold milk; then by t degrees, add a pint more, aiso cold, and put it with a bay-leaf into a saucepan, 'I set it on a slow fire for an hour and a hall , i] then strain and flavour it with orange- ! flower water, sweeten to your taste, and II serve it hot. It should be stirred fre- 1 quently iVhilst boiling; eggs may be I added if you think proper. Rice, Croquettes o/.*—Wash and scald \ a quarter of a pound of rice, put it into a saucepan, with the rind of a lemon, shred small, a quarter of a pound of powder sugar, a pinch of salt, a little crisped Orange-flowers, an ounce of butter, and ' half a pint of milk ; set these on the fire, I and when the rice is quite soft, add the 1 yolks of four eggs, stir them in over the 1 fire, but do not let them boil; pour the 1 preparation on a large tin or slab, spread I It equally ; let it cool, and then divide it I into small equal parts; roll these into I balls, dip them into an omelet, roll them j in bread-crumbs, and fry them in a very hot pan. As soon as the croquettes are j of a nice colour, drain, sprinkle them i with powder sugar, and serve them, j Rice Custards ivithout Cream.*—One I tea-spoonful of rice-fiour, a pint of new i milk, the yolks of three eggs, a table- j spoonful of ratafia (or two or three laurel 1 leaves boiled in), sugar to yourtastc; mix ' the rice very smooth, and stir it with the ' eggs into the boiling milk, until thick. Arrow-root is better than rice. Rice Flummery.—Boil a pint of new milk, with a bit of lemon-peel and cin- namon ; then mix just sufficient rice- flour, with a little cold milk as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten according to taste, flavour with a I'ttle pounded bitter almond; boil it, taking care not to let it burn; pour it into a sliape or pint basin, taking out the spice. When the flummery is cold, turn it into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard, all round, or serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Fritters.*—Boil the rice in milk with some powder sugar, orange-flower water, a pinch of cinnamon powder, and a little butter ; when quite soft put to it a liaison of yolks of eggs, pour it into a pan to cool. Make your preparation into balls, about the size of an egg, dip them in egg, fry them, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve. Rice, Gateau of.* — Boil a quart of cream, add to it half a pound of powder sugar, and three quarters of apound of rice ; when the latter is quite soft, dis- solve in it a quarter of a pound of butter, and then put in the grated rind of a lemon, let it cool. When quite cold, stir in four yolks, and four whole eggs, more if the rice be very thick; butter a mould lightly, put the rice into it, place the mould in hot ashes, so that it may be completely enveloped in and covered with them; in half an hour the gateau will be done enough; then turn it out, and serve. If you wish, you can make a souSle, by whipping the whites of six eggs ; like other souffles,^ in this case it should be served in a silver dish. Iix putting the preparation into the mould, be careful not to fill it, as the rice would swell ar.d run over the edge. Rice M'./t.*—Allow an ounce of rice for each person, wash it thoroughly in warm water ; act some milk on the fire, and when it boils, put in the rice ; con- tinue to boil it over a slow fire, stirring often lor two or three hours; add salt or sugar according to taste, and cinna- mon. Rice Pancakes.*—Boil half a pound of rice in a small quantity of water, until quite a jelly ; as soon as it is cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a little salt and nutmeg; make eight ounces of butter just warm, and stir in with the rest, adding to the whole as much butter as will make the batter thick enough. They must be fried in as small a quan- tity of lard as possible. Rice Paste.* — Ilub three ounces of butter well, into half a pound of ground rice, moisten it with water, and roll it out with a little flour. Rice Pudding, Boiled.* — Take six ounces of whole rice, and when suffici- ently boiled, stir in a table-spoonful and a half of suet, shred fine ; when that is melted, take it up, add one egg, and twoRT C RO A ( 438 ) ounces of moist sugar. Boil these togc- tiier three quarters of an hour. Rice Pudding, with Currants.*—Tie live ounces of whole rice in a cloth, leav- ing it room to swell, boil it lialf an hour, then take it tip, add three tablespoons- ful of suet, shred fine, five ounces of cur- rants, and two eggs, well beaten ; tie it up again, and boil it an hour and a half. Rice Pudding, Boiled.* — Well wash and pick some rice, tie it in a cloth, leav- ing plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a ouantily of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Rice {Dutch) Pudding. — Soak four ounces of rice for half an hour, in warm water ; then drain the water from it, and put it into a stewpan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and let it simmer until tender. When cold, add four whole eggs, well beaten, three oun- ces of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, a good-sized piece of lemon-peel, and two ounces of butter melted in cream. Line a dish or mould, with light puff paste, put in the above, and bake in a quick oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit.—Swell the rice in a little milk over the fire; then mix with it either currants or goose- berries scalded, or apples pared and quartered, raisins, or black currants, add one egg to the rice, to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. Rice ( Groimd) Pudding.—Boil a very large spoonful of ground rice in a pint of new milk, ivith lemon-peel and cinna- mon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten; put a puff- paste round your dish, put in the above, and bake. Rice Puddings, Small.—Simmer two laige spoonsful of rice in half u pint of milk until it is thick, then add to it a bit of butter the size of an egg, and about half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, well beaten, sugar and nutmeg according to taste, add grated lemon, and a little cinnamon. Butter some little cups, lay some orange or citron at the bottom, and fill them about three parts full with the above. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slow oven. Serve the moment before they are to be eaten, with sweet sauce in a boat. Rice Savotiry. — Carefully wash and pick some rice ; set it to slew’ very gently in a little veal or rich mutton broth, add an onion, a blade of mace, pepper, and milt. When it is swelled it should not be boiled to mash ; put it to dry on the shallow end of a sieve before the lire. Ypu may serve it dry, or put it in the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having first heated it. Rice Soup. — Carefully blanch some well picked rice, then drain it on a sieve; put about a teacupful in the soup pot, with one head of celery, and a quart of consomme, and let it simmer by the side of the stove for three hours. If iithickens too much add more consomme, season with a little salt; take out the celery, and send the soup to table. Rice Soup.*—Wash your rice well in warm water,changingitfrequently; then put the rice into a saucepan, with some good stock ; set it on the fire, and leave it to swell for halt an hour, but do not let it boil; when the rice ha.s imbibed all the stock, add a sufficient quantity to cover the rice, cover, and boil it slowly for two hours; in the mean time broil two or three slices of beef, and pepper and salt them well; when of a nice dark colour, throw them into the rice soup, to which they will impart a rich flavour and a fine colour. RicecI la Venitienne.*—Boil tome rice in good broth, and when soft, mix them with beef marrow, pounded almonds, sugar, and orange-flower water; setthew on a gentle fire, and when of a good con- sistence, pour it on a dish; glaze, and colour it with a salamander. RISSOLES (i la d’Artois. — Make a sort of forcemeat of chicken, partridge, rabbit, for sweetbread, &c., (see Cro- guettes), and make a rissole paste, (see Collops), which roll out very thin ; make the forcemeat into little i-ound balls, and place them at equal distances on the paste ; egg them lightly, and turn the end over ; cut them with the gigging iron to the shape of a scallop, prick each of them, and fry them quickly in lard ; lay them on paper as you do them; serve them very hot, with a napkin under them. ROACH.—The roach is a very coarse and bony fish: those which are taken from rivers are very superior to those which are taken from ponds. They are in season in April and May. Roach Boiled.—Scale, gut. and wash them ; wipe them, cut them jn three or four places on the sides ; put into a stew- pan somesmall-bcer, vinegar, and w.ater, (enough to cover the fishl. some .«alt. a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, and a stick of horse-radish sliced ; when it boils, put in the fish. Serve with anchovy sauce. Roach Fried. — Scale and gut the roach, wash them in salt and water, wipe them exceedingly dry : flour, and fry them in boiling lard ; they must be brown and crisp; lay them in a warmR O O ( 439 ) R 0 S dish ; pour the fat out of the pan, put in a piece of butter, and when it boils, fry some sai?e and parsley crisp; lay it on the roach. Serve with anchovy sauce. ROCAMBOLE, or IVild Garlic.*— Peel some rocamboles, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water ; set them on the fire, until they will yield easily to pressure, then throw them into cold w'ater. Reduce some velouti, tXnckcn it a little, and the rocamboles being cold, drain, and put them in ; give them a toss over the fii e, and then serve. ROLLS.—Warm an ounce of butter in half a pint of milk, then add a spoonful and a half of yeast of small-beer, and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and put in the above. Set it to rise for an hour ; knead it well; make it into seven rolls, and bake them in a quick oven. Rolls {French).— Rub one ounce of butter into a pound of flour; then add to it oqe egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and a sufficient quantity of milk, to make a dough of moderate stilfness. Beat it well, but do not knead it; let it rise, and bake on tins. Rolls (.French).—Warm three spoons- ful of milk, and the same quantity of water, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, put it to two spoonsful of thick yeast; put this into the middle of rather more than a quart of flour, mix the whole together to the consistence of a batter- pudding, adding more flour if necessary, to make it the proper thickness; strew a little flour over it from the sides, and if the weather is cold,'set itat a little dis- tance from the fire; do this three hours before it is put into the oven; when it breaks a good deal through the flour and rises, work it into a light paste v/ith more warm milk and water; let it lie till with- in a quarter of an hour of setting into the oven, then work them lightly into rolls ; flour a tin, and drop them on, handle them as little as possible; set them before the fire. About twenty minutes will be sufficient time to bake them ; put a little salt into the flour. Rasp the rolls. Rolls Short (Hot).*—Dry before the fire a sufficient quantity of flour to make three penny rolls, or larger if you like; add to it an egg well beaten, a little salt, two spoonsliil of yeast, and a little warm milk; make it into a light dough, let it stand by the fire all nigbt. Bake the rolls in a quick oven. ROOTS (Fetites Racines).* — Cut some young carrots into small pieces about an inch and a half long, make them round, and keep all as near of a size as possible; put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil five mi- nutes, then change them into cold water. and finish like Rocamboles (see that ar- ticle). ROSES, Candied.*—Cusp two hands- ful of rose-leaves in some clarified sugar, boil them to fort sovjffle, then take the pan from the fire, pour it on a sieve, let the syrup run from the leaves, rubbing the latter in your hands, then dry them in a stove. Boil your sugar again to souffle., adding a little carmine to colour it, and finish it in the same manner as Jo7igziils, Candied. (See that article.) Roses, Conserve of.*—Boil half a pound of sugar to fort souffle., pour into this sy- rup the best double-distilled rose- water ; boil it again to fort perle, mix with it a little prepared cochineal or car- mine to colour it, and pour your conserve into moulds. Rose (Red) Drops.* — Take a small quantity of red basted saffron, and a little calcined alum, boil these in some water until it is sufficiently tinged for your purpose ; then filter or strain it through a very close linen cloth ; put five or six spoonsful of sifted sugar into the pan, dilute itvyiththe coloured wa- ter, work it well with the bois d labeller, and set it oyer a chafing-dish; when it begins to boil, add two more spoonsful of sugar, and having worked it well, per- fume it with some drops of essence of roses, and finish as directed. (See Orange-flower Drops.) Rose Gateaux Souflles.* — Take a handful of rose-leaves and a pound of sugar; boil the latter to petit boitle or petit casse, then put in the roses, increase the boiling to casse ; have ready o.glace royale, made with the white of an egg, tinged a delicate rose-colour with a little carmine, mix this with your syrup and roses, stir-ring it rapidly; when the su- gar rises the second time, pour it into the mould. Rose Ice Cream.*—Put a quart of rich cream into a saucepan, set it on the fire, whenitboils takeitofl'andputinahandful ol fresh rose-leaves ; leave them to infuse, keep them covered for two hours ; then, if the eream be cold, strain and pour it on the yolks of nine eggs, beat them up well, add three quarters of a pound of powder-sugar; set it on a slow fire, and stir it constantly till it thickens, biking care that it does not boil. Run it through a bolting, and when cold, colour it with a little carmine dissolved in clarified su- gar ; put it into a saboticre, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Rose Jelly.*—Make a clear apple- jelly, colour it with cochineal infused in double-distilled rose-water, and just be- fore the last boiling put in half a glass of the best double-distilled rose-water.ROU ( 440 ) R 0 S ■ Roses, Oilo/'.*—Take tliree pounds of picked roses, and distil them by bain- marie in two quarts of brandy. Dissolve two pounds and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of river water, boil it up twice; when cold, add to it half a pound of double-distilled rose-water; mix it with the brandy, filter, and bottle it. This liqueur is greatly improved by dissolving the sugar in cold rose-water. Rose iVater, Double-distilled*—The rose generally chosen for this purpose, is the common pale (single or double) lose, but the white rose is best of all. Gather the flowers in fine weather, two hours after sun-rise; take out the calix, and se- parate the leaves, pound them in a mar- ble mortar to a paste, and leave them five or six hours in the mortar; then put them into a large close cloth, and let two persons wring it uiith all their strength. Having by this operation obtained four pounds of juice, infuse in it an equal weight of fresh rose-leaves for twenty- four hours ; at the end of that time put the whole into the alembic, which place in a sand-bath, and distil it according to rule. (See Distilling.) When you have collected about an ounce of the water, unlute the receiver, and if that which issues from the still is as odoriferous as that which proceeded first, continue the operation ; but if not, collect it into another vessel, as this se- cond \yater is only single, and must be kept separate from the first, which is the Essential fVater. Should the se- cond water have an unpleasant smell (caused by the application of too much heat), expose it to the sun fora few days, covered only by a sheet of paper. The utmost care is necessary in distilling this and alt other odoriferous substances. A still more powerful essence than the above may be procured by the following metliod:—Gather as many roses as will afford thirty pounds of leaves, pound these with four pounds of salt; when pounded, place the paste in a vessel in layers with salt between each, press them closely, cork them tight, leave the vessel twelve days, and then distil as usual. Rose /Firfer, Putfourpounds of rose leaves into a pan, with three quarts of river water, and leave it four- and-twenty hours ; _thcn put it into a me- tal alembic, and distil Irom it ns much odoriferous water as you can, being sure to stop the moment you observe the phleghm. Takeoff the alembic, throw away its contents, and rinse it out well; after this, fill it to two-thirds with fresh- gathered rose-leaves, on which pour the above drawn rose water; distil this, and when you have procured as much good rose-water as it will yield, let the fire go out gradually. Rose Vinegar.* — Infuse rose-leaves in the best white vinegar, leave it where it will be exposed to the sun for ten days ; ihen draw it off, pressall the liquor from the dregs, filter and bottle it. Keep the bottles well corked. ROSEMARV Vinegar.* — This is made in the same manner as Lavender Vinegar. ROSSOLIS.*—Take three quarters of a pound of picked orange-flowers, a pound of musk roses, six drachms of cinnamon, and two of cloves (both bruised) ; put them into a cucurbite with three gallons of pure water; on distilling this, it will yield a gallon and a half, in which dissolve twelve pounds of fine su- gar broken up ; add to it an equal quan- tity of spirit of jessamine, colour it crim- son with cochineal, filterand bottle it. ROTI, Sans Pureil.* — Fill a good- sized olive with chopped capers and an- chovies, soak it in oil, and put it into a becca-Jica, orany other equally delicately flavoured small bird; enclose this in a larger one, such as an ortolan; then take a lark, cut off the head and feet, put the ortolan in it, cover it with a thin slice of bacon, the lark into a thrush, the thrush into a quail, the quail into a lapwing, this into a plover, then a partridge, en- close the partridge in a woodcock, then a teal, a turkey-poult, a wild duck, a pullet, and a pheasant, cover this latter with a goose, after which a turkey, and enclose the whole in a bustard. If in proceeding as above, any spaces are left, fill them up with a farce made of truffles, chesnuts, and sausage-meat; put it into a large saucepan with small onions stuck with cloves, caiTot”, ham, cut in small pieces, celery, a bouquet garni, a mi- gnonette, slices of bacon, a clove or two of garlic, pepper, salt, spices, and co- riander ; set your saucepan on a gentle fire or in a moderate oven for twenty- four hours; skim, and serve it very hot. ROUX.*—Put a pound of butter into a saucepan, shake it about till dissolved, when add a sutlicient quantity of sifted flour, to make it the consistence of thick bouilli; then set it over a fierce. stove, and stir it until it begins to take colour, when make a good fire of cinders, place the roi/.ronit, and let it stand to increase in colour; it ought to be of a clear light brown. Set it by, and use it ns occasion may require. Roux, n'hitc.*—Prepare your butter and flour as above, place it on a mode- rately heated stove, stirring it constantly till very hot; be careful that it does notSAG ( 441 ) SAL take colour at all, for the whiter it is the more desTable. HUFFS and Rees —These are parti- cularly delicate birds, ai)d should there- fore be handled very lightly in the pick- ing; they must be run, side by side, upon a long skewer, and roasted for twelve or fourteen minutes at a good dis- tance from the fire, and basted with but- ter; serve with good gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a boat. RUM —Toaquart bottle of com- mon white wine, add a pound of lump sugar reduced to a syrup and clarified ; then take, an ounce of isinglass, dissolve it thoroughly, strain it through a sieve, and mix it with the syrup milk warm ; when this mixture is nearly cold, pour it into the white wine, stir it well so as to mix it completely; then add a spoonful (or rather more, according to the strength you desire) of old Jamaica rum; stir it and pour it into a mould, or glasses, if intended to hand round for evening parties. RUSKS.—Melt four ounces of butter in half a pint of new milk; then add to this seven eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, put this mixture, by degrees, into as much flour as will make an ex- tremely light paste, more like batter, and set it to rise before the fire for half an hour; then add more flour to make it rather stifFer, but notstitt'. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and brotvn them a little in the oven. S. SAGO.—Let it soak for an hour in cold water, to take off the earthy taste ; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more water, and simmer gently until the berries are clear, with lemon-peel and spice. Add wine and sugar according to taste, and boil all up together. Sago Milk.— When well cleansed, boil it slowly with new milk. A small quan- tity wilt be suflicient for a quart of milk, it swells so much, and when done, it should be reduced to about a pint. It requires neither sugar nor flavouring. Sago Ihulding. — Roil two ounces of sago with some cinnamon, and a bit of lemon-peel, till it is soft and thick; mix the crumb of a small roll finely grated, with a glass of red wine, four ounces ol chopped marrow, the yolks of four eggs well beaten, sugar according to taste; when the sago is cold, add this mixture toil; slir the whole welj together, and put it in a dish lined with a light pull- paste, and set it in a modertite oven to hake; when done, stick it all over with citron cut in pieces, and almonds blanch- ed and cut in slips. Sago Pudding. — Boil two ounces of sago until tender, in a pint of milk ; when cold, add five eggs, two Naples biscuits, a little brandy, and sweeten according to taste; put this into a basin and boil. Serve with melted butter mixed with wine and sugar. Sago Pudding.*—Wash half a pound of sago in several waters (warm); then put it into a saucepan with a pint of good milk, and a little cinnamon ; let it boil till thick, stirring frequently ; pour it into a pan, and heat wp with it half a pound of fresh butter ; add to it the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, beaten separately, half a glass of white wine, sugar according to taste, and a little flour; mix all together well, and boil it. Serve with sweet sauce. Sago Soup.— Wash your sago in the same manner as rice, and boil it in fowl consomme until quite a jelly ; have ready a puree of game, heated in the ham- marie; mix the sago with this, whilst both are boiling hot; if too thick, add more fowl consomme, and glaze of game; soak your bread as usual, and serve the soup. SALAD.*—Take one or two lettuces, split them in two, thoroughly wash them, and drain the water from them ; then cut them into small pieces, find intermix them with small salad, celery, and beet- root, cut in pieces, some nice young radishes cut into small pieces, sliced cucumber, and an egg boiled hard, cut into pieces, and garnished about; then make a sauce with the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, which rub well together in a basin with a wooden spoon ; add a little pepper, salt, and mustard ; when these are mixed to a smooth paste, put in a few lea-spoonsful of sweet oil, mixing it well between each spoonful, then mix in a few tea-spoonsful of vinegar in the same manner. When the sauce is mixed ac- cording to the directions, it will never require shaking, and will .always look like cream. Pour this sauce over the salad, or serve it in a cruet. Salad {Parisian).* — Take five very red carrots, and as many turnips, cut all these with a root-cutter into round pieces an inch long, and three-cighthsof an inch in diameter; cut some ai-paragus heads and French beans of the same length ; toss them all up in a little oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, tarragon, chervil, and minced shalot. Out three large par-SAL SAL ( 442 ) bbiled potatoes, and a red beet-root, Into slices lialf an inch thick, one wide, and two and a half long ; cut tliese again into long tr-iangles; place tliem on a dish alternately ; that is, the slices of potatoe with the point upward, and the beet-root between each, with the point downwards; set tlietn round the dish, so as to form a crown six inches in diameter ; to give it consistence, pour over tlie bottom of the dish some aspicjelly, and put it on ice to set it; then take thirty champignons, ierce the centre of each, and in these oles stick asparagus heads, French beans, carrots, or beet-root, all cut into round pieces, an inch and a half long; dip the champignons into aspic jelly, a little set, and place them alternately bn the beet-ipot; when all are done, pour yeur macedoine of carrots, &c., into the crown; mask it lightly with a white mag^tionnaise, in the centre fix a fine let- tuce heart, with hearts cut in halves or quarters, and serve your salad. SALLY Lunns.*—Take three quarts of dried flour, half a cupful of yeast, a quarter of a pound of butter, melted in a sufficient quantity of milk to dissolve it, the yolks of three eggs, and a little salt; make these ingredients into a light dough, let it stand before the fire (co- vered), for an hour to rise, and bake, in a quick oven. The above may be made into small cakes. SALMAGUNDY. — This is a very pretty small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colourof the ingredients are varied. For this purpose, chop separately the white part of a cold chicken, or veal, the yolks of four or five eggs, and the same number of whites of eggs ; a large hand- ful of pnr.--ley, six anchovies, some beet- root, pickled red cabbage, harn, and grated tongue, or any thing well fla- voured, and of a good colour. Put a saucer or china bason into a round dish, or a smaller dish into a long one, then make rows round it, wide at the bottom, and groafing smaller towards the top; making clioice of such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colour; spun butter at the top, or butter worked into what is liked, or a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in. You need not, unless you please, put any thing in the dish, as thesalmagundy may be laid in rows, or nut into the half wliites of eggs, whicli may be made to stand upright by cutting otF a little bit at the round end. In the latter case, caQh half egg has but one ingredient. Curled butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. SALMON.—-When salmon is fresh and good, the gills and flesh are of a bright red, the scales clear, and the whole fish is still'. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish becomes richer. Salmon Baked. — Cut a nice piece of salmon into slices about an inch thick ; make a forcemeat as follows ; — take equal quantities of the flesli of salmon, and flesh of eel, with a few mushrooms; season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and clovee, beat ail together till very fine; boil the crumb of a small roll in same milk, beat with it four eggs till it is thick, let it cool, and bind the whole together with four raw eggs; take the skin from the salmon, and put the slices in a dish, cover eacli slice witli the force- meat, pour melted butter over them, and then strew bread-crumbs all over; lay a crust round the dish, and place oysters all round ; put it in the oven, and let it bake till of a fine brown colour, then take it out, pour over it a little melted butter, with some red wine boiled in it, and the juice of a lemon. Salmon en Buril.*—Take a moderate sized salmon, lay it open, and take out the bone; cut away the thin part, the head, and the tail, so as to make each side quite straight. Have ready a que- nelle-farce of smelts, spread a layer of this over each slice, which roll up in the form of a barrel, make the ends of it quite smooth, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and roil them up in a sheet of paper, place them on a baking-pan, pour on them a marinade cuite, and bake them. When done, take ofl' the papers carefully, so as not to injure the form; d'sh and serve with a ragofit of carp- roes ; or, if better liked, glaze and serve witli sauce piquante. Salmon au Bleu. — Drain a salmon without ripping up the stomach, wash and thoroughly' dry it; put it into a fish-kettle, and let it stew for two hours, more or less, according to the size of the fish, in a good marinade ; let the court- bouillon boil slowly, otherwise the fish will never do through. Before serving, drain it, place on a clean napkin, and gpu-nish with parsley. SalmonBof/rrf.—Salmon requires being well boiled, as it is very unwliolcsonie when underdone. Some boil horse-radish in the water; fried smelts may be laid round it ; garnish with horse-radish and sliced lemon. Serve with anchovy-sauce aud plain butter. Salmon Boiled.— Run a pack-thread tbrougli the tail, the centre of tlic body, and the head, to bring the fish to the form of the letter S ; put it into a kettle of cold spring water with plenty of salt,443 ) SAL SAL and a sheet of paper over it; as soon as it begins to boil, set it by the side of tlie fire to simmer gently till done ; take out the pack-thread without breaking the salmon. Serve it on a fish-plate with lobster-sauce in a boat._ Salmon,ilo/ferf in /Vine.—Season with pepper and salt, some slices of bacon, fat and lean together, a pound of veal cut thin, and a pound and a half of beef; put these into a deep stewpan, then a fine piece of fresh salmon cut out of the middle, then pour in just as much water as will cover it, and let it simmer over a gentle fire till the salmon is almost done, then pour the water away, and put in two quarts of white wine, with an onion cut in slices, some thyme, and sweet marjorum, picked from the stalks ; let them stew gently, and while they_ are doing, cut a sweetbread into thin slices, then cut the slices across, and stew them in a saucepan, with some rich gravy ; when they are done enough, add a quar- ter of a pint of essence of ham ; take up the salmon, lay it on a dish, and serve with the sweetbread, and its sauce poured over. Salmon, BrorVe,7.—Season some slices cut about an inch in thickness, with pepper and salt; wrap each slice in half a sheet of white paper, well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire for six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with an- chovy sauce. Salmon Broiled Twice.—Sieep some slices of salmon in a mixture of lemon- juice, sweet oil, salt, and coarse pepper, broil till, half done; then dip them in some butter and stock, mixed with pars- ley and young onions, shred ; finish broil- ing, and serve with a little lemon-juice and bread-crumbs, grated very fine, strewed over. Salmon, Co/tore(7.—Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash, and rvipe it, then rub it well inside and out to season it very high, with salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, all well mixed together. Then roil it light and bind it; put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it; add bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil the liquor quick, and pour over it when cold. Serve with fennel. Salmon, Crimped.—When the salmon is scaled and gutted, rut off the head and tail, and cut the body through into slices an inch and a half thick, throw them into a large pan of pump water; when they are all put in, sprinkle n handful of bay-salt upon the water, stir it about, and then take out the fish ; set a large deep stewpan on the fire, boil the head and tail, but do not split the head; put in some salt; when they have boiled ten minutes, skim the water very clean, and put in the slices ; when they are sufficiently boiled, take them out, lay the head and tail in the centre of a dish, and the slices round. You may, if you please, dress the head and tail alone, and serve another time. Salmo.v, Croquettes of.*— Boil your salmon in a court-bouillon., and when cold, prepare them in the same manner as croquettes saltcod. (See thatarticle.) S.ALMON, Dried.—Cut the fish down, take out the inside and the roe. Scale it, and rub the whole with common salt, and hang it to di-ain for twenty-four hours. Pound three or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay-salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar ; mix these well, and rub into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish for two days, then rub it well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place, keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through; egg sauce and mashed potatoes are usually served with it; or it may be boiled, es- pecially the bit next the head. Salmon, Dried, to Dress.—Pull some dried salmon into flakes; have ready some eggs boiled hard and chopped large; put the salmon and the egg into half a pint of thin cream, and three ounces of imtter, rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it, and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of n dish, and pour the above into it. Salmon, Dried, to Dress.—Lay it in soak for two or three hours, then broil it, shaking a little pepper over it. Salmon, Glace au Maigre.*—Empty and clean a good-sized salmon, and lard it with anchovies and eels; open the fish, take out the bone, and fill it with a farce composed of tench, perch, &c. minced, and mixed with artichoke-bottoms, truf- fles, morels, &c. also minced, and sweet herbs, kneaded together with fresh but- ter. Tie tip the salmon, and put it into a saucepan with eels, cray-fish, carp- roes, truffles, &c. moistened with equal quantities of maigre broth and white wine; stew this until the fish is tender and well-flavoured ; then serve it, with its liquor, reduced to the proper consist- ence for sauce.SAL SAL ( 444 ) —Take two hand- some slices of salmon, and marinade them in oil and lemon-juice with salt and pepper : hroil tliem about two-tliirds, and then put them in a saucepan with tlicir marinade, set them on hot ashes to simmer for lialf an liour, then put them on a dish, cover tliem with grated bread, coloiir the whole witli a salamander, ana serve. SALMON, Pickled —Cnt a salmon into two or three pieces, put it in a fish- kettle, and set it on the fire with a suffi- cient quantity of water to cover it, and plenty of salt; as soon as it begins to boll, set it aside to simmer very gently until done ; then take it off the fire, and let it stand in the liquor until cold, take it out, lay the pieces close togetlier in a tub to pickle, and over them five ancho- vies, a small quantity of pounded salt- petre, and a quarter of a pint of sweet oil; being thus prepared, put tlie top of the salmon liquor into a stewpan, to which add the same quantity of white wine vinegar; put it on the fire to skim, and boil it for two or three minutes; takeitofli and let it cool. When cold, pour it over the salmon and tie it down ; m three days turn it, and in a week’s time it will he fit for use; this is merely in a small way ; a great quantity being done at once, requires neither oil nor an- chovies. Serve garnished with fennel. Salmon. Pickled, to Dress.—?>oak a piece of pickled salmon all night in pump- water ; then lay iton a fish-plate, and put it in a stewpan, with three spoonslul of vinegar, a little mace, some wh.».Ie pep- per in a bit of muslin, an onion, a nut- meg bruised, a pint of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some parsley, lemon-peel, and a quarter of a pound of butter rolled in flour; cover the stew- pan very close, and let it simmer over a gentle fire for a quarter of an hour; then take up the salmon, lay it in a dish, keep it liot before the fire ; lot the sauce boil till it is of a proper consistence ; take out the spice, onion, and sweet herbs, and serve the ranee over the fish. Sai.mon Pie (//ofTake the skin and bone from a piece of salmon ; cut it in pieces, which lard with eel and an- chovies; dress them in a little butler with some sweet herbs, salt, and spices; wiien done, take out the heibsand mix tliem with fish quenelles; let the fish cool, and then lay it in a deep dish lined with pufl'-pastp, put in also the quenelles, cover your pie and bake it. Pour an Italienne into it, and serve. Salmon, /’o/W.—Seale and wipe a large piece of salmon, but do not wnsli it; salt it thoroughly, then let it lay till the salt is melted and drained from it; then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper; lay in some bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butler, and set it in the oven to bake; when thoroughly done, drain it from the gravy, nut it into pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter, Salmon, Rolled.—Take half a salmon, Ijone it, cut off the head, scale and wash it; make a forcemeat with oysters, cut small, some parsley, chopped fine, bread- crumhs, pepper, salt, nutmeg and mace, put this to the salmon, and roll it up tight ; put it into a very deep dish, and set it to bake in a quick oven. Serve with anchovy, or shrimp sauce poured over. Salmon, Saladof.*—Put into a sauce- pan four dessert spoonsful of vinegar, two of liquid jelly, ten of oil, a minced raoigote, salt and pepper; cut a boiled salmon into pieces, put them into the above sauce to colour them. When cold, lay them on a dish, and pour the sauce over. SALOOP.—Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar, together; then mix with a small quantity of the powder, previously rubbed smooth, in a little cold water ; stir the whole well together, and boil for a few minutes. S.ALPICON.’*—This is a mixture com- posed of various articles, such as sweet- breads, fat livers, tongue, ham, champig- nons. truffles, &c., previously diessed, cut into (lice, and cooked in some rich sauce, and seasoned with pepper, salt, nutmeg, cloves, shalots, sweet herbs, and a little butter ; take care tl^at all the articles are sufficiently boiled liefore they are cut up. Many things, such as beef- palate, fowl, cocks’-combs, indeed almost any article you piease, may be added to the above. Salpicon, Omeh t of.* — Whip up a dozen eggs, and fry half the number as usual in butter ; then lay the omelet in a di.sh, spread .a snl/dron, composed of carp roes, livers, &c. of fish, all over it; make a second omelet of the remaining eggs, lay it on the salpicon, and serve with any sauce you please. Salpici'n Toast.* — Make a salpicon with veal sweetbreads, morels, artichoke bottoms, and a slice of streaked bacon, all cut into dice ; nut them into a stewpan, tvith some veal or fowl giavy ; set the pan on the fire, and then thicken the salpicon with the yolk.s of four eggs. Cut some thin slices of bread (have all the same thickne.'s); toast, and spread the salpicon over, and lay them in sand- wiches ; b^at up some whites of eggs which, with a spoon, pour all over theSAM f 445 ) S A U toast. Then fry them in a very hot pan, serve with veal or. mutton gravy, or blond. SALSIFY.*—Salsify is a black root, scrape it well, taking care to leave no spots; then soak it in vinegar and wa- ter; fill a saucepan with water; add to it an ounce of butter, four dessert apoonsfui of vinegar, and some salt; set it on the fire, and as soon as the water boils, put in the salsify, and let it boil an hour. Drain, and serve either with while or brown sauce. Salsify, Fried.*—When the salsify is dressed as above, drain, and fry it lightly in a while sauce, and let it c, ol; then (lip it in -a batter, and fry it. Sal- sify is likewise sometimes soaked in a marinade of vinegar, with salt and pep- per, previous to frying. SALTING Meat.—Meat for salting is the better for hanging three or four days before it is putinlo the brine ; great care should be taken that all the kernels and bloody veins be extracted, and the meat wiped perfectly dry. When a large quan- tity is to be salted, it is best to put it into a large ve.ssel, either of stone, wood, lined with lead, or wood only, and cover it with a brine made of salt and water, sufficient'y strong to allow an egg to flo,it on the top. If only a single joint is re- quired, rub it thorouglily with salt, and- when completely covered, lay it in a pan, and turn, and rub it every day, until wanted. SALT Pudding.*—Take a pintof milk, four dessert spoonsful of flour, a little suet, shred fine, four eggs, salt, and poundecI*girger ; mix first the eggs and milk, then add the flour, &c.; put more flour, if necessary, to give it consistence : tie your pudding in a buttered cloth, and boil it two hours. Salt (Spiced).*—Take four drachms of grated nutmeg, the same of cloves, two of white pepper, two of allspice, two of mace, two of bay-leaf, two of basil, and two of thyme (lh> oe three latter articles should be dried in an oven). Put these all into a mortar, and pound them to an impalpable powder, and sift it. Take a pound of fine white salt, dry it thoroughly in an oven, or stove, pound it as fine as possible ; sift, and mix with it an ounce of the above- mentioned spices; amalga- mate them thoroughly, keep the spiced salt in a tin box, which will shut per- fectly close. Use it in the following pro- portion : four drachm.s to a pounu of boned veal. SAMPHIIIR, to Drij, or Preserve.— Takeitin bunches as itgrows; seta large deep stewpan full of water on the fire ; as soon as it boils, throw in a little salt, ami put in the samphire; when it looks of a fine green, remove the pan directly from the. fire, and take out the samphire with a fork ; lay it on sieves to drain ; when cold, lay it on earthen plates, strew sugar well over it, next day turn them on a sieve, and strew it again with sugar, keep turning daily until it is dry; lake care the stove is not too hot. Samphiiie, to Pickle.—Lay some sam- phire that is green in a pan, sprinkle over it two or three handsful of salt, and cover it with spring water, and let it lay f"r twenty-four hours; then put it into a large brass saucepan ; throw in a handful of salt; cover the pan close, and set it over a very slow fire ; let it stand till it is quite green, and crisp; then take it off, for if it becomes soft it is spoiled ; pul it into a jar, cover it close, and when it is cold, tie it down. SARDINTAS, F»w/;.* —Take two dozen fresh sardinias, dry them thorough- ly, flour, and fry them in clarified butter. They are also salted and eaten in the same manner as anchovies; for which they are frequently used as substitutes. SAUCE.—Few things- require more care than making sauces, as most of them should lie stirred constantly, the whole attention should be directed to them ; the better way therefore, is to prepare the saures before cooking those articles which demand equal care; they may be ' kept hot in the bain-marie. Butter, and those sauces containing eggs, ought never to boil. The thickest stewpans should be used for making sauces, and wooden- spoonsused for stirring them. There is so great a variety of sauces, that it would nearly fill a volume to enu- merate them all. A few of the principal are subjoined, and for manyotiiers, see the re.-ipcctive articles of which they are composed. Sauce d VAUemande.*—Put a slice of ham,and some champignons (previously dressed and shred) into a stewpan ; set it on the fire, and when the ham begins to stick, moisten it with stock and con- somme, boil and reduce it; then take oil' the fat, strain the sauce, and add to it some scalded parsley, two fat livers, capers, anchovies, scallions, all chop- ped, add a bit of butter, put it again on the fire, and when of the requisite con- sistence, take out the scallions, put in some mignonette and lemon-juice, and strain it for use. Sauce auxAtelets.* —V\x\.sQma veloutc. or a bit of butter into a stewpan, with some parsley, scallions, and clntinpig- tiims, all sbred small; set them on the fire, and when they begin to fry, add a little stock, flour, pepper, nutmeg, a 2 Q( 446 ) S A U SAU bay-Ipnf, and eali; reduce the whole to the consistence of a bouilli^ take out the bay-leaf, put in the yolks of three eggs, and stir till sufficiently thick. Be care- ful not to let it boil. Sauce a VAnrore.*—Mix two dessert- spoonsful of lemon-juice with some vc- loute; season with pepper and grated nutmeg; put the mixture into a sauce- pan, make it quite hot. In the mean- time rub the yolks of four hard boiled eggs through a cullender, which put into the sauce just before serving; take care not to let it boil after the eggs are in. Sauce an Bain-Marie. — Take thin slices of fillet of veal, ham, and beef, ac- cording to the quantity of sauce you may require, take also some carrots, parsnips, parsley roots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery, also sliced; put all these into a stewpan, with a few slices of bacon ; cover it close, and let it stand on hot ashes for some time; then add equal quantities of white wine and good broth, place the stewpan in the bain-marie, let the sauce simmer for four hours, when it may be strained for use. Be careful not to put in so much of any single ingredient, that its flavour may predominate over the others. Sauce, Brown.*—Take a pound or two of steaks, two or three pounds of veal, some pickings of fowl, carrots, and onions, put all these into a saucepan with a glass of water, and set it on a brisk fire; when _ scarcely any mois- ture remains, put it on a slow fire, that the jelly may take colour without burn- ing ; and as soon as it is brown, moisten it with stock (or water), add a bunch of parsley and green onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, and some champignons, salt it well, and set it on the fire for three hours, then strain; dilute a little roux with your liquor, and boil it an hour over a gentle fire, take off all the fat, and run it through a bolting. Sauce {Carrier).*—Scrape a small stick of horse-radish, cut an onion or two in thin slices, put these into a sauce- tureen with a little vinegar and whole pepper: set the tureen in the dripping- pan under a shoulder of mutton whilst roasting; serve this sauce quite hot with the meat. Sauce d la Diable.* — Mince half a dozen shalots very small, wash and press out all the moisture; then put them into a saucepan with a glass of vinegar, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, and some veal glaze, reduce it to nearly a jelly, moisten it with a little good gravy ; add pimento butter, and a spoonful of olive ” Sauce, Take three or four slices from the under part of a knuckle of veal, and put them into a large stew- pan with two ladiesful of comommej set It on a fierce firej taking care to skim it as much as possible, and with a cloth wipe away all that adheres to the inside of the stewpan; when the consomme is reduced, prick the slices with a knife to let out the gravy; then set the stewpan on a slow fire, that the meat and glaze may adhere together, and as soon ns the latter is of a clear light colour, take it off, leave it covered for ten minutes, then fill it up with rich stock, in which is four or five large carrots, and three onions ; let it boil slowly for two hours, fn the meantime put the knuckle into a saucepan with four or five carrots, as many onions (one stuck with cloves), and twojadlesful of consomme ; set it on a brisk fire that the liquor may reduce to a jelly, as soon as this jelly begins to take colour, pour on it the liquor from the other saucepan to dissolve the jelly gra- dually; then make it boil. Dilute some roux with the above liquor, and add it to the meat with some champignons, a bunch of parsley, scallions, and two bay- leaves, skim it when it begins to boil, and again when the roux is added, put in more consomme or roux, according as it is too thick or too thin. When it has boiled an hour and a half, take oft’all the fat; and when the meat is quite done, strain the sauce through a bolting-cloth. Sauce d la Grimod*—Is the same as Sauce d la Poriugaise, with the addition of grated nutmeg, two or three allspice bruised, and a little India saffi-on. Sauce {Harvey).—Chop twelve ancho- vies, bones and all, very small, with one ounce of cayenne pepper, six spoonsful of soy, six ditto of good walnut pickle, three heads of garlic, chopped not very small, a quarter of an ounce of (xichineal, two heads of shalots, chopped not very small, one gallon of vinegar; let it stand fourteen days, stir it well, twice or thrice every day; then pass it through a jelly-bag, and repeat this till it is perfectly clear; then bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork. Sauce {^lialieniu;).—Put some lemon, parsley, tnyiue, and mushrooms, shred small, into a stewpan with a little butter and a clove of giirlic; set it on a moderate fire ; as soon as the butter begins to fry. pour in a little cowswame, and let it stew till pretty thick, then take out the garlic, add some butter sauce and a little lemon- Sauce {Italian) fur Salads.—Mix to- gether three table-spoonsful of sauce tournee, one of mustard, some tarragonS AU 447 ) S A U and chervil shred small, with three table- spoonsful of Florence oil; putting in, however, a little at a time; when per- fectly smooth, add also, by degrees, a glass of tarragon vinegar and a little salt. This sauce cannot be mixed too much. Sauce Languedocieiine."—Put a bit of butter rolled in flour into a saucepan with parsley, scallions, a clove of garlic bruised, a glass of cream, and half aglass of olive oil ; set it on the fire, and when the whole is dissolved and incorporated, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and lemon- juice ; let itsimmer till of a good consist- ence. . Sauce d la Madelaine. — Put a few bread-crumbs, two shred shalots, a bit of butter, half a spoonful of vinegar, and two spoonsful of consommU into a stewpan; set them on the fire, and give them a boil UD together; season with pepper and salt. This sauce should not be too thick. Sauce, Minced.*—Put into a saucepan parsley, shalots, and champignons, of each a spoonful shred, half a glass of vinegar, and a little pepper; set these on the'fire till there remains scarcely any vinegar, when add four ladiesful of espag- nole, and the same of stock, reduce, and take the fat from the sauce ; when done, put in a spoonful of capers, and two or three gherkins, both shred ; pour it into another saucepan, and set it in the bain- marie ; just before it is sent to table, Eound an anchovy or two with a little utter, which beat up with the sauce. Sauce a, la d’ Orleans.*—Put into a saucepan three or four tea-spoonsful of vinegar, a little pepper, some shalot, and an ounce of butter; reduce this, and add four or five ladiesful of brown sauce. When ready for table, put into your sauce four or five gherkins, the whites of three hard eggs, four or five anchovies, a carrot (all cut into dice), and a spoonful of whole capers ; make it quite hot, but not boiling, and serve. Sauce Piquante.*—Put into a sauce- pan a quarter of a pint of vinegar, some allspice, a pinch of pepper, a bay-leaf, and a little thyme; let this remain on the fire till reduced to half, then add tvvo ladiesful of espugnole.^ and two of stock ; set it on the fire again; when about the consistence of clear bouiltie, it is sulfi- ciently done. Put salt according to taste. Sauce, Pluche.*—Put into a saucepan, four or five ladlesful of veloute, half a glass of white wine, a parsley-root cut into small pieces, and season with pep- per ; set it on the fire, and when suffi- ciently reduced, add some parsley-leaves bruised and blanched in salt and water; serve almost immediately. Sauce a la Portagaisa.*—^\x\, iqto a saucepan aquai’terofa pound of butter, the yolks of two raw eggs, a dessert- spoonful of lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, according to taste; set it on a moderate fire, stirring constantly till hot; then vannez it rapidly to unite the butter and eggs. Should it be too thick, put a very little water to it. This sauce ought not to be made till just as it is wanted. Sauce aw Reverend.—Chop up some lemon-peel, and two or three pickled cucumbers; put them into a stewpan with two spoonsful of cullis, a little butter rolled in flour, season with salt and pepper, put it on the fire, and make it quite hot without boiling, stirring all the time, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve. Sauce Robert.*—C\.\t a few onions info dice, which put into a frying-pan with a bit of butter, and fry them lightly ; when nicely browned, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper; reduce it to a proper thickness, and when ready, for table, stir in two dessert-spoonsful of mustard. Sauce Cuta poundof veal, and half a pound of ham into dice, and put them into a saucepan with two legs of fowl, three or four carrots, four onions, two bay-leaves, three cloves, a little basil, half a pound of butter, and some salt; set these on a rather brisk fire; in the meanwhile pound the yolks of twelve hard eggs to a paste, which put to the above, and stir them in till the butter is entirely melted, then pour in by degrees a quart of cream : set the saucepan again on the fire for an hour and a half, stirring all the time, if it be too thick, add more cream, or milk; when suiliciently done, strain it through a bolting. Sauce (Sicilian).—Put into a stewpan nearly a pint of good gravy, a quarter of a pint of essence of ham, half a lemon, peeled, and sliced thin, a few coriander seeds and four cloves (the two latter bruised); set these on the fire, give one boil, and add three cloves of garlic, a head of celery^, sliced, two bay-leaves, and a little basil; let it stand till reduced to halfj pour in a glass of white wine, and strain it. If not suiliciently thick, add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Sauce (Spariisli).—Take the meat from a cold roasted partridge, put it into a mortar, with partridge livers, and truf- fles, pound them to a rather liquid paste, moistening with some good gravy. Put two glasses of red wine, two or three slices of onions, a clove or two of garlic, and two glasses of the paste; make it quite hot, and then strain it into another stewpan; add the partridge to it, and a 2 Q 2( 448 ) S AU S AU little cs?ence of ham, season it well, and let it boil slowly for some time. S.urcE, Suprc7ne.*—Put one ladleful of veloute, and four of essence of fowl, into a Saucepan, set it on the fire, and when reduced to half, put in a teaspoonful of parsley, slired small, and scalded, a little fresh butter, half the juice of a lemon, and some pepper; place it on the fire, make it quite hot, but not boiling; van- nez it well, and serve quickly. ■ Sauce (Sweet).—Put some cinnamon into a saucepan, with as much water as will cover it; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up once or twice, add two spoonsful of powder sugar, a quarter of a pint of white wine, and two bay- leaves ; give the whole one boil, and then strain it for table. Sauce, Tournee.—Put three or four pieces of lean ham into a stewpan, with a little butter, and some champignons, set it on a moderate fiie, stirring till the butter begins to look clear ; then put the champignons into another stewpan, and add a sufficient quantity of flour to the butter, to make it the consistence of bat- ter;'mix it well in, and when smooth, put to it three table-spoonsful of strained consomme., stir it in, then add more, at dif- ferent times, until you have as much as you require. Set it on the fire, and let it boil Slowly, stirring constantly; when reduced to the proper thickness (which is that of good melted butter), strain it through the tammy, to use when occasion requires. Sauce (Lhiiversal).—Take half a dozen split shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay- leaves, basil, thyme, truffles, tarragon leaves, half an ounce of bruised mustard seed, some Seville orange-peel, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same of mace, double the quantity of long pepper, and two ounces of salt; put all these ingre- dients to infuse in the juice of a lemon, h.alf a glass of verjuice, four or five spoonsful of vinegar, and a pint of white wine ; put them into a jar, cover it as closely as possible, and set it on hot ashes for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time let it stand to settle, and when clear, pour it oil' carefullv, strain, and bottle it. This infusion will keep a long time if tightly corked, and may ue used with all kinds of meat and fish. It may al-o be added to other sauces. Sauce, IVhiie.*—Beat up a quarter of a pound of Imtter. and a tea-spoonful of flour; season with salt and pepper; w'hen well worked up, add a des-ert spoonful of vinegar, and a little water. Set these on the fire, and stir till thick ; be careful not to let it boil. Sauce (/r/.»Ve). — Boil a few bits or bones of_ chicken, or veal, in a little water, with a btmch of sweet herbs, an onioti, a slice of lemon, a little celery, and a few pepper-corns; when you have about half a pint of liquor, strain it, add some good cream, a piece of butter rolled in flour, pounded mace, and salt; make it quite hot, stirring continually; when dune, flavour it with mushioems, or lemon-juice. Sauce (fFhiie Fish).—Simmer toge- ther an anchovy, a little horse-radish, scraped, some mace, an onion, stuck with cloves, a piece of lemon-peel, a glass of white ivine, and a quait'rof a pint of water ; when propeily reduced, strain it, and then add two spooiifful of cream, a piece of butter, rolled in flour; set it on the fire again, and keep stirring till it boils. IVhen ready to serve, put in a liltleketchup, and some lemon juice. SAUR-BRAUTON*—To a sirloin of beef of twenty pounds, take one table spoonful cf allspice, four dozen cloves, a lemon sliced, a clove of garlic, laurel and bay-leaves, parsley, and sweet herbs, of each asmall quantity. Stick the cloves into the meat, which lay in a deep pan, with the above articles over it, end just cover- ed with vinegar. Let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight, turning it daily, and keeping the pan closely covered; two days before dressing the beef, lard, and then replace it in the pickle. Such a piece of beef will require at least eight hours roasting, and should be done on a cradle spit, a good gravy marte to baste it tvith, as the vinegar may make it too acid. This pickle will be strong enough for a small leg of mutton, and if the vinegar be good, it ought also to serve for a hare. SAUR-KRAUT*—Have ready a vine- gar white wine orbrandy,cask,about four inches from the bottom of which put in e vent-peg. Take a nur.iber of the best white cabbages, strip oft'all the outride leaves, and slice ihe hearts transversely as thin as possible, until you have as much as you require; then lay over the bottom of the cask, osier or vine twigs, to the height ol the peg; on these put alternate layers of thesliced ctihbagc.and Silt (in the proportion of cne pr.uiid of the latter to fifty of the former); let each layer of cabbages be at least three inches thick. When the ca-k is about two- tliirds full, put cabbage haves all over; cover them with a cloth, and a roumi piece of wood, which will exactly fit the inside of the cask, and place a sP'i.e or heavy weight on it. In lour or five days time draw out the peg. anil let the brine run oft'; add more salt, and repeat this operation at inlet vals of a month at latest.S A U 449 S A U 2 Q 3 until what flows from the cask is per- fectly clear, and free from smell. Some add juniper and carraways to the salt in making saur-kraut; be careful to keep the cask in a moderate temperature, during the whole year. Saur-kbaut.—Prepare your cask, and slice the cabbages as above; put the lat- ter into a tub to ferment for some hours (not less than twelve, nor more than twenty-four); then make a hole at the bottom of the tub, and press the cabbages hard, to extract all the liquor from them ; when quite dry, put a layer of salt at the bottom of the cask, on which put a layer of the cabbages, on this more salt, pep- per, and a few ripe juniper berries; pro- ceed thus alternately until the cask is nearly full; put on a piece of wood, ex- actly fitting tlie inside of the cask, on which place one hundred and twenty pounds (or more) weight on it. In a few days the brine will form a crust on the top of the cask, when the kraut is fit for use. On taking it out, use a wooden spoon only ; merely leave sufficient brine to cover the saur-kraut; lay a wet cloth all over to exclude the air, and then re- place the lid and weights. The top of the cask should be fre- quently washed with salt and water, and part of the brine be drawn ofl' occasion- ally. Saur-kraut, fo Dress.*—Take out as much saur-kraut from the cask as you think sufficient for a dish, and soak it for two hours in cold water ; then drain, and put it into a stewpan, with some slices of streaky bacon, a servelas, and sausages; add stock, and a little good gravy. Stew it over a slow fire, and serve with the bacon, &c. on it. The skins must be taken from the sausages and servelas, before they are sent to table. SAUSAGES.*-Are composed of various kinds of meat, chopped exceedingly small, with pounded spices, and aromatic herbs, shred fine ; these ingredients are put into skins, or guts (thoroughly washed), and tied into lengths of from two to five inches. Some persons add to the mix- ture a glass of Rhenish, Champagne, Madeira, or other wine. (For pork, beef, and other sausages, see the respective articles.) Sausages, Bologna.*—T&ke the legs and shoulders of a pig, from which cut all tlie lean, scrape it well, remove all the sinews, and rub the meat well with a seasoning made of salt, pepper, corian- der, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, and bay- leaf. When properly flavoured, take some bacon, lard, and leaf, and cut tlie whole into dice; mix the fat and lean togetlier, and put it into o.\-guts, tie up the ends, and lay the sausages in a pan of water, with salt, and saltpetre ; cover the pan close, and leave it. In a week’s time lake out the sausages and drain them. Tie them between two pieces ol wood, hang them up to dry, and smoke. When dry, untie them, and rub each over with oil, and the ashes of vine- twigs. mixed together. Keep them in a dry place. Sausages of Marchpane.* — Take a quarter of a pound of chocolate, which put on a tin plate, and place it over a stove to dissolve ; as soon as it is so, put it into a pan with a little water, stir it well, and then mix it with a pound of marchpane paste, a small quantity of r-ed, santal, half an ounce of cinnamon, and six or eight cloves (all three in powder). When well kneaded togetherj chop up. some blanched almonds, which strew over the slab, roll out your paste on them, so that they may stick to its surface, to represent the pieces of fat, and cut it into pieces the length and thickness of sau- sages ; place them on white paper, and leave them for some days to dry, and then bake them in a very moderately heated oven; if they be put in too great a heat they will burst. Sausages, au Palatin.*—Take equal quantities of beef-steaks, fresh pork, and leaf; pound these together thoroughly, pour on the pounded meat some good Moselle or Rhenish wine; in about an hour drain off'all the wine which has not been sucked up, season with salt, pepper, spices, and ginger, all in powder, and fill your skins as usual. Sausages {Parma).* — Mince equal quantities of veal, fresh pork, and leaf; take also an equal portion of Parmesan cheese grated ; mix these articles toge- ther, season them with salt, pepper, spices, and coriander (all pounded); fill your skins and tie them into lengths of about three or four inches, and dress them as usual. Sausages (ProycMcafc).—Takea pound of fresh pork, half a pound of veal, half a pound of leaf, three onions, and six cloves of garlic; mince and mix all these ingredients together, add a dozen truffles boiled in a little white wine, and slired, salt, pepper, and spices, and put the mixture into skins. Sausages {Iloyal). — Mince small the meat of a partridge, a capon, or pullet, a piece of gammon, and other bacon, and a bit of leg of veal; shred also some par- sley, chives, truffles, and mushrooms; mix these altogether, and season with pepper, salt, beaten spice, and garlic; bind the whole with the yolks of six, the whites of two, eggs, and a little cream:8K R scu ( m when tliorcuclily mixed, roll the prepa- ration into thick pieces, which wrap in very thin slices of fillet of veal, well beaten with a rolling-pin; each sausage should be about the thickness of a man’s wrist, and of proportionate length. Line an oval stewpan with slices of bacon and thin beef-steaks, put in the sausages, cover them with beef-steaks and bacon, shut the stewpan very close, and set it on a moderate fire, put hot embers on the lid, and let it stand ten or twelve hours ; then take it oiT, and when cold, take out the sausages carefully, remove the veal, and all the fat, with a sharp knife cut them into slices, and serve cold. SAVOY Soup.—Cut into quarters and boil in a little water, five large savoys ; strain the water oft’ when they are cool, press them well to drain out all the water, then put them into as much beef-gravy as will cover them, cover them very close, and setthe saucepan on a moderate fire, and let it stew for two hours ; then set on the fire a large frying-pan with a quarter of a pound of butter; shake in some flour, and stir till it is brown ; peel a couple of onions, put them into the liiitter and stir it well about ; as soon as they are nicely coloured, add a quart of veal gravy, mix tliem well together; soak some crust of French rolls in the gravy in which the savoys are stewed, lay tliem in a tureen at a little distance from each other; then pour in the gravy and onions. SCOTCH Short Bread.*—two pounds of flour, dry, and sift it well; then mix with it a pound of powder-sugar, three ounces of candied citron and orange-peel cut into dice, and half a pound of carraway comfits; put half a pound of butter into a saucepan, set it on the fire, and when quite melted, mix it with the flour, &c.; the paste being nicely made, roll it out to the thickne.ss of half an inch, cut it into cakes, lay them on white paper, prick and bake them; they should be of a pale colour. Scotch Make a paste with some oatmeal and butter, form it into a dumpling, and nlace a haddock’s liver in the middle, well seasoned w'itli pepper and salt; it should be boiled in a cloth. SCUBAC.’*—Infuse two ounces of saf- fron, the zestes of four lemons, those of as many oranges, and a drachm of mace, in three gallons of brandy, for a week, keeping the vessel closely covered ; at the end of that time distil it. dissolve ten pounds of sugar in a gallon and a half of water, stir it into the liqueur, and then filter it. Your liqueur made as above, will be very white and dear. If, how- ever, you wish it of a yellow tinge, after the sugar is dissolved, and the syrup is cold, add tincture of sallroii to it; the quantity regulated by the degree of colour you wish. SEEDS (Strg'flret/).’*'—These are done in the same manner as sugared almonds. The seeds most generally used for this purpose are anise, cummin, and fennel. 'I'he best metliod of proceeding is as follows : place a small preserving-pan over a charcoal fire, on the side of nhich have a chafing dish, on which keep a pan with a quantity of sugar boiled to lisse ; (this sugar should be kept quite hot, but not boiling); on the other side have some fine powder. Wlien so far prepared, put your seeds into the pan, and as soon as tliey begin to heat, pour over them a large spoonful or two of the syrup; stir them about, that all may be thorougldy saturated with it; then sprinkle over it a handful or two of powder, still shaking the pan to make the seeds equally white. When dry, pour on some more syrup, then the powder, and continue this alter- nately until your seeds are sufficiently large ; then lay them on a sieve, keep them in a warm place for some days, after which put them into glass bottle.s. SERVELAS. — According to the number of servelas you intend making, take your quantity of fresh^lean pork, mince it small, and mix it with a fourth part of bacon fat, (also minced). Season with salt, pepper, spices, nutmeg, anise, and coriander ; fill your skins like sau- sages, tie the ends, and hang them in the chimney to smoke for three days. Then put them into a saucepan of water, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, basil, and a bunch of parsley ; boil them in this for three hours; drain, and let them cool. Servelas of Marchpane.*—Take a pound of marchpane pa-te coloured red as for Marchpane Sausages, and three quarters of a pound of the same unco- loured ; cut both into small irregular pieces, mix them together, and put them into skins the same as the regular ser- velas; take particular care that the guts are well cleaned, perfecily dry, and tram- parent; press the pieces in close that they may be quite firm; and having cut them of the proper lengths, moisten your hands witli oil of almonds, and rub the servelas well with the palms, until they are quite smooth and shining. These servelas are of an excellent flavour, and will keep a long time. SHALOT Sh»/cc.’‘—T.-ike two spoons- ful of the liquor the mutton is boiled in, two spounsfiil of vinegar, two or three shalots cut fine, and a little salt; putS II E ( 451 ) S H E these ingredients into n saucepan, with a bit of butter rolled in flour ; let it stew a little, and serve it up wiih your mutton or beef. Shalot Fhiegar. — Put six or eight shalots split into a quart bottle ; fill it up with vinegar, stop it; it will be fit for use in a month. SHEEPS’ Tails Braised.*—C\ea.n, and wash the tails thoroughly; scald them, and then put them into a saucepan on slices of streaked bacon, with tarragon, a bunch of sw eet herbs, turnips, parsley, salt, pepper, and moisten the whole with consomme ; cover them close, and braise them till quite tender ; then lay the tails on a dish, and pour the other articles over them. Sheeps’ Tails Roasted. — Having thoroughly washed the tails in warm water, scald them for five minutes in boiling water ; then cover them com- pletely with bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, salt and pepper; fasten the tails to a spit, and roast them before a moderate fire. Any sauce you please may be served with tliem. Sheeps’ Tongues en Brochettes.* — Boil the tongues in some consommf., then cut them into small fillets, cut also bacon into very' thin slices, not larger, however, than the tongues; put these pieces alternately on skewers ; cover them with bread crumbs mixed with sweet herbs shred, salt, and pepper ; lay them on a gridiron, and broil them nicely. Sheeps’ Tongues Broiled.*— Having parboiled the tongues in a little stock, split each, give them afew turns in some melted bacon, strewing over them salt, pepper, shred parsley, and bread crumbs; when well covered with the latter, lay them on a gridiron, and broil them slowly. Sheeps’ Tongues en Chemises.*—Boil some tongues in good veal or muiton gravy, and in the meantime put into a saucepan a little butter, some sliced onions, pounded bacon, three or four anchovies, shred parsley, salt and pep- per, mix them well together. Cut some C.U1I into pieces large enough to contain a tongue, in each of which put a little of the above mentioned seasoning, lay a tongue on it, more seasoning, wrap the ends of the caul over the whole; bread them well with crumbs mixed with shred sweet herbs, and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Sheeps’ Tongues Pie.— Line a dish with some good piiff’-paste, and lay at the bottom of tlie dish some good force- meat, made of roasted poultry, suet. parsley chopped, mushropms, pepper and salt, and a few fine spices ; upon this place the tongues cut in two, and upon them a good slice of ham, a little butter, and a few slices of bacon ; put on the cover and bake it; when done, take out the bacon and ham, skim oft' all the fat, and pour on it what sauce you please. Sheeps’ Tongues Roasted. * — Take half a dozen sheeps’ tongues, and having properly prepared them, lard them with small lardons, tie them to a skewer, wrap a buttered paper round, and fasten them on a spit, and roast them before a mo- derate fire ; a little before they are done, take oft' the paper, baste the tongues with butter, and make them of a nice colour. Serve with whatever sauce you may prefer. Sheeps’ Trotters {Fricassee of).* — Wash the feet well, changing the water frequently, then boil them in some stock ; when nearly done, take out all the bones, leave the meat in the saucepan,_ add to it a bunch of sweet herbs, a pinch of flour, salt and pepper ; when perfectly tender, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and serve the feet with a little verjuice. Sheep.s’ Trotters d I’ltalienne.*—Put some sliced onions, very salt bacon, salt, pepper, mustard, and verjuice, into a saucepan, with a little veal gravy; make, it quite hot, and then put in the feet, previously boiled in stock. In half an hour they will be sufficiently flavoured, then serve all together very hot. Sheeps’ Trotters in Paste.*— Put the feet into a pan, with some melted butter, parsley, scallions, morels, and streaked bacon ; set them on the fire, and stew them. Cut some pulT-paste into twice as many pieces as you have feet, and in every two wrap a foot; close tlie ends nicely, do them over with yolk of egg, and bake them in a moderate oven. 'J'he feet should not be boned. Sheeps’ Trotters Stuffed.*—Boll the feet in good stock till the bones will come out with ease; fill the space left by them with a good fowl or chicken farce ; dip them in lard, bread them well, and bake in a moderate oven. _'I'lie space left by the bones is some- times filled up with a hit of fried bread ; in this case the feet are only previously boiled, and then served with cream sauce. SHERRET.— This is a delicious beverage,composed of cream, mixed with various articles, sucli as almonds, tea, pisiach'os, cofl'ee, chocolate, &c.. and sugar, and then iced. Sherbet may aho be made with the juice of various Iruiie,S H R 452 S K A sweetened to the taste; for the method of preparing which, see tlie different articles it is usually composed of. When the liciuid is sufficiently limpid and cold, pour it into a silver,or tin sorbeliere,a.na ice it as usual. (See Ice). SHRIMPS.— Shrimps are chosen by the same rules as prawns. Shuimps to Butter.—(See the recipe to Butter Prawns). SnaiMPs in a Gratin. — Take one or two quarts of shrimps, according to the size you wish your dish, pick, and toss them in good bechamelle, with a lit- tle lobster spawn pounded and mixed in it, as directed for lobster sauce; make the whole very hot, and add the squeeze of a lemon, then lay it on a dish, and strew crumbs of bread over it, the same as for other gratins ; colour it with the salamander before it is served to table. Shrimps {to Grill).—Stew the shrimps in a little water, with salt, pepper, and shred parsley; butter some scallop shells, put in some grated bread, on which lay the shrimps, cover them with bread, add a little more butter; set them on a grid- iron for a short time, brown them with a salamander and serve. Shrimp Pie.—Take a quart of nicely picked shrimps, and season them with two or three anchovies minced very fine, and mixed with some salt, mace, and a clove or two; (should the shrimps be very salt, that article must be omitted in the seasoning). Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, then lay in the shrimps, and add a glass of sharp white wine. The paste for this pie should be light and thin. It does not take long baking. Shrimps Potted.—Let them be nicely boiled, then nick them out of the shells, and season them vvell with pepper, salt, a little pounded cloves, and a little mace: put them closely together into a pot, and set them for about ten minutes in a slack oven, and when cold, pour over clarified butter. ShRiMP_ Sawcfi.— Put half a pint of picked shrimps into a stew pan, witli some butter sauce, and a very little essence of anchovy; make it very hot, add a little lemon-juice, and serve it to table. Shrimp Sauce. — Nicely pick your shrimps, and put them to butter melted thick and smooth ; give them one boil, and add some lemon-juice. Shrimp Sauce.—Mix a pood piece of butter with some flour, boil fit up in a little rich gravy; put in the shrimps, nicely picked; give the whole one boil. SHRUB.* —Put a qu.art of Seville orange-juice to a gallon of rum, with three pounds of lump sugar, and a hand- ful of the peel pared extremely thin ; let it stand in the cask for three months,' then filter it through a cloth, and bot- tle it. Shrub.*—Take aquartoforange-juice, strain it, put to it two pounds of lump sugar, four quarts and one pint of rum ; put half the peels of the oranges into the rum, and let it stand one night, then mix the rum with the orange-juice and sugar, put it into a vessel which has a spigot, shake it four or five times daily till the sugar be all dissolved ; when it is clear, which may be in about a fortnight, bottle it off' for use. If the oranges are very ripe, a pound and half of sugar is suf- ficient. SIBERIAN Crabs, to Preserve.*-- Take theirweight in sugar, make a syrup with apple-jelly ; when well boiled, prick the crabs and put them into it; let them boil a few minuteS; then take them out, put them on a sieve to drain; when nearly cold, put them again into the syrup, boil it a few minutes more, and drain them as before ; do this a third time, observing the same rules as at first; then put them into glasses or jars, and pour the jelly over them, boiling. SIPPET Pudding.—Cut a small loaf into extremely thin slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish, then a layer of marrow, or beef-suet, a layer of cur.-ants, and then a layer of bread again, &c.. and so continue until the dish is filled ; mix four eggs, well beaten, with a quart of cream, a nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and pour over ; set it in the oven, it will take half an hour baking. SKATE.—When good, they are very white and thick ; if dressed too fresh, they are hard and unpleasant to the taste; they should, therefore, be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. Skate Boiled.—Put it into a fish-kettJe with cold spring water and plenty of salt; as soon as it boils, set it aside to simmer gently till done, and serve it on a fish-plate with anchovy-sauce in a boat. Skate Fried.—The skate_ must be nicely crimped, then tossed in an egg, beaten up with pepper, and salt, then in crumbs of bread, laying them on paper ns you do them ; have ready a stew^n nearly full of lard ; when very hot, put in two or three pieces at a time to fry quickly, and when thoroughly done, put tliem on paper to drain from the ^t; serve them to table on a dish garnished with fried parsley, and serve shrimp- sauce in a boat. SMELTS.—The smelt is consideredSME SME I ( 4£3) an excpllent fish when fi'csh, and have a smell similar to that of a newly-cut cucumber ; when good, the scales have a fine silvery hue, and the body is very still'; when stale, it is flabby. Smelts, o/.«—Take the fillets from half a dozen smells, take off the skin, cut each into four pieces, and trim them ; melt some butter, add to it the yolks of two eggs, salt, and pepper ; beat them up well, dip each fillet into this, and roll them ; run a skewer through them, so as to prevent their unrolling ; put four on each skewer, dip them again into the butter ; have leady some bread- crumbs, roll the fillets in this very lightly, but so as to cover them com- pletely, and broil them over a clear fire ; take care that all four sides are well coloured. SsiELTs d la Bonne Eiiu.*—Clean, and scrape your smelts, wipe them with a clean cloth, cut off their heads and tails, and put the fish into a saucepan, with some parsley, two or three scallions, a bay-leaf, water, salt, and pepper ; boil them slowly for a quarter of an hour, dish them ; add to the liquor some more parsley, boil it up once or twice, and pour it over the smells. Smelts Broiled^*—When the smelts are well cleaned, slit them down the sides, and lay them in oil, with salt and pepper, for a little while ; then put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil them ; when done, serve either vvith caper or toinata sauce. S.MELTS CM Caissons* — Make some paper-cases as if lor biscuits, into each of which put a little farce maigre, com- posed of butter, sweet herbs, small fish minced, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; lay the smelts on this, cover them with bretid-crumbs, and bake them in a mode- rate oven. When done, serve with what- ever sauce vou like. Smelts Fried.*—Scrape your fish, cut oil the tails and fins, clean, and wash them, then replace the livers ; slit them down the sides, flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Drain and sprinkle salt over them. Serve them on a napkin. Smelts are most generally used as a garnish for larger fish. Smelts, Gratin o/.*—Prepare your fish as for frying, spread some butter over the bottom of a deep silver dish, on which shred parsley and scallions, and sweet herbs, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; place the smelts on this, cover them with bread-crumbs, moisten with a little melt ed butter and white wine; set it on a stove, or in an oven ; brown the top, and serve. Smelts with Herbs.*—Boil a bunch of sweet herbs, witli some sliced onions, salt, pepper, half a spoonful of oil, and a quart of water; when the liquor is suf- ficiently flavoured, put in tlie smelts and boil them quickly. Smelts d Vlialienne.* —Boll your smelts with a large glass of while wine, half a glass of water, two spoonsful of oil, two slices of lemon, a pinch of salt, and a pinch of fennd. When sufficiently done, make a liaison with yolks of eggs, and shred chervil, ai;d serve your fish with its own sauce. Smelts Pickled.—Wash, clean, and gut a quarter of a hundred of smelts, take half an ounce of nutmegs, a quarter of an ounce of mace, half an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of pepper, a quarter of a pound of common salt, all beaten very fine ; lay the smelts in rows in a jar ; between every layer of smelts strew the seasoning, with some bay- leaves; boil a sufficient quantity of red wine to cover them; pour it boiling hot over them, cover the jar with a plate; when cold, tie it down very close. Smelts Pfe/rferf.—-Draw out the insides all but the roes, put their tails into their mouths ; boil them a few minutes in salt and water, vinegar, and pepper- corns ; take out the fish ; as soon as the pickle is cold, pour it over them. Smelts Potted.—Draw out the inside, season them with salt, mace pounded, and pepper, lay them in a pan wiih butter on the top; bake them; when nearly cold, take them out, lay them upon a cloth; put them into pots, clear oil’the butter from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over them. Smelts in Savory Jelly.—Lay a dozen well cleaned smelts at the bottom of a stewpan, with half consotnme and half Madeira, a little salt, a young onion, and two or three mushrooms ; let them stew gently till well done, then carefully take them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a plate to cool ; pass the liquor through a double silk sieve to some good eonsomme, which must be clarified the same as directed for aspic jelly; the jelly being made, have ,a large plain mould ready, in ice, and nearly half fill it with jelly; as soon as it is set, place the smelts in it, w'ith their heads down- wards, and just sufficient jelly to cover them ; when these are set, fill up the mould ; when wanted, dip it in tvarm water, and turn it on the dish. This makes a good supper dish. SNIPES.—When the snipes have been picked, they must be, singed over a char- coal fire ; in trussing them press tlte legs454 SOL SN I close to the side, and pierce the beak through them ; tie a slice of bacon over eacli bird, run a long iron skewer through the sides, and tie them to the spit; in the mean time cut two or three slices of bread, according to the number of the birds, fry them of a fine brown colour in butter; put the birds to roast, and put the fried bread in a dish under them, to receive the inside, which will drop after they have hung a few minutes; just before they are roasted sufficiently, cut off the bacon, that they may take colour. Serve them on the dish with the bread under them, and plenty of good gravy. Some prefer eating them with butter only, considering that gravy takes off from the fine flavour of the bird. They should be carved the same as fowls or pigeons, and the head should be opened, as some are fond of the brains. Snipes are generally dressed in the same manner as woodcocks. Snipes d la Manselle.*—Take the fil- lets, wings, and legs, of as many snipes as will give you sufficient for a dish; mince them small, and put the mince- meat into a saucepan, with half a glass of consomme, a spoonful of olive oil, the livers of the birds, well pounded, salt and pepper. Set these on the fire; a quarter of an hour will be sufficient to do them; when done, put in a little verjuice. Snipe Pie.—Take three snipes, bone them, and fill them with light forcemeat, adding the trails and truffles pounded, to it; place the birds in a deep dish, with a little forcemeat all round; cover with puff-paste; egg, and ornament it, then place it in the oven. When three parts baked, take off’the lid, and pour in some good cullis, a glass and a half of Madeira, and season with cayenne and lemon- juice, according to taste; put on the cover, and finish baking. Snipes d la Provetufale. * — Having picked and trussed your snipes, put them into a stewpan, with a glass of oil, basil, bay-leaf, pounded coriander seed, and two slices of lemon ; when they are pretty well flavoured, take them out, wrap each bird in • a slice of bacon and a cabbage- leaf, replace them in the stewpan, and finish cooking them over a gentle fire, add a glass of good stock, a little veal blond, sweetbreads, truffles, morels, or any other articles of the kind ; when about to serve, squeeze in a little Seville orange-juice. Snipes with Truffles. —• Truss eight snipes with their beaks run through them, ana roast them with bread under. Have a few fine truffles well stewed in a good brown sauce, and when the snipes are rOiasted, lay them on the toast in the dish, putting one or two truffles into each snipe, and pour the remainder of the sauce over them. SOLES.—-Soles may be seen in the market almost all the year round, but they are in the greatest perfection about midsummer ; when good, they are thick and firm, and the belly of a cream colour; when stale, they are flabby andof a bluish cast. Soles Boiled. — Be careful that the soles are thoroughly well cleaned, then rub them over with lemon-juice, and set them on the fire in cold spring water, with plenty of salt, and when they begin to boil, put them aside to simmer very gently till done ; serve with anchovy sauce in a boat. You may if you please, garnish your fish with parsley. Soles (Collops of).*—Take some small soles, and marinade them in the juice of two lemons, with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs shred ; when they have remained sufficiently long in the above drain them; then stuff the fish with some crumb of bread boiled in milk, and beat up with the yolks of two eggs; sprinkle them with flour, and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them on fried parsley or chervil. ■Your fish ought to be of a clear gold co- lour, and very dry and crisp. Soles FriQosseed.—Fry tnem of a nice brown, drain them; take off' all the meat from a small sole, chop it fine, and mix it with a little grated bread, some lemon-peel, parsley chopped fine, pep- per, salt, nutmeg, the yolk of an egg, and a little butter ; make this into little balls; fry them. Put a little red wine to some good gravy, thicken it with a little flour; boil it up; add cayenne, ketchup, and lemon-juice, lay in the fish and balls, simmer them a few minutes. Garnish with lemon. Soles Fried.—Let them be thoroughly cleansed, after which dry them in a cloth, dip them in egg, then cover them with fine bread crumbs, laying them on paper as you do them ; put some good lard into a frying-pan, and when very hot. slip in the soles, and fry them of a good brown colour ; place them on paper to drain off the fat: sprinkle over tliem a little salt; serve tliem to table very hot, with shrimp sauce in a boat. You may, if you think proper, beat up the egg with a little pep- per and salt. Soles d la Horly.*—Skin, and teke the fillets from two pairs of soles, trim, and lay them in a pan, and soak them in the juice of two lemons, with an onion sliced, parsley, salt and pepper; in an hour’s time drain the fillets, dry th.em well,SOL SOR ( 455 ) ii flour, and fry them of a nice colour; drain them, lay on a dish, and serve with tomata sauce. I Soles, d la Maymmaise.*—Fry four or ;i five pairs of soles; when cold, lay them li on a gridiron, over a slow fire, not to heat through, but to allow the skin to be li raised easily 5 while they are on the fire, > detach the fillets, and then take off the i| skins, and cut your fillets into square [ pieces; dip each of these into a mayon- II naise, and lay them neatly in a mould, li until it is full; then make the mayonnaise 1 warm, pour it into the mould, cover, and i; set it on ice; when the sauce is congeal- ed, turn it on a dish, garnish with crou- a tons, gherkins, anchovies, &c. I Soles, with Mushrooms.—Put a quart i of milk into a stewpan, or fish-kettle, d with the same quantity of water, a bit of 1^ butter, salt, and a little lemon-juice; l| then put in the soles, and set the stew- f pan over a moderate fire, and let them ( simmer very gently till done ; then take t them up, place them on a cloth or nap- I kin, to imbibe all the liquor from them ; li lay them on a dish, and pour over them ij a good mushroom sauce. i Soles, cn Paupiettes,*—Prepare your soles exactly like salmon en bai-il; but instead of baking them, boil the paupi- ettes in a court-bouillon. Serve them il with an Italicnne. I Soles, jn Sallad.* — See Salmon, in 1] Sallad. I Sole Pie.—Boil t«o pounds of eels d until quite tender, then pick the flesh I from the bones, and put the latter into i the liquor the eels were boiled in, with a J blade of mace, and some salt; let them t boil till the liquor is reduced to a quar- I ter of a pint, then strain it; cut the flesh of the eel very fine, and mix it vvith a little lemon-peel, cut small, a little salt, i pepper, nutmeg, a few bread-crumbs, parsley, chopped fine, and an anchovy, a minced ; mix the whole with a quarter of a pound of butter, and then lay this forcemeat in a pie dish; cut the meat from a very fine pair of soles, and put I into the dish upon the forcemeat, pour i in the liquor the eels were boiled in, put on the cover, and set it in the oven to bake of a nice brown. Soles, d la Plat.*—Melt some butter, and pour it into a dish, with some shred parsley, and shalots, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; then lay in a pair of soles (well cleaned and dried), spread sweet herbs, shred over them, and sea- Fon with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; add a glass of white wine, and cover the whole ■with bread-crumbs, moistened by a few drops of butter; set this dish in a mode- rate oven to bake for a quarter of an hour. Soles, Stuffed.* — Make a farce of whiting or perch, minced very small, and mixed with butter, sweet herbs, morels, kneaded together by yolks ef eggs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; having skinned and cleaned your soles, stuff' them with this farce, rub them with butter, bread, and bake them. They may, if preferred, be dressed in equal quantities of stock and white wine. SoRHEL, d la Botirgeoise.*—V\ck and wash as much sorrel as you may want, drain and squeeze all the water from it, and putit intoasaucepan,setiton the fire; when the sorrel is dissolved, if there be too much water, put it into a cullender ; then fry it lightly in a little butter. Put two spoonsful of flour into a basin, beat an egg up with it, then add another egg, and when that is well beaten with the flour, pour in a glass of milk, and then mix il with the sorrel, set it on the fire, and stir it, until it has boiled a quarter of an hour; dish it, and serve with either poached or hard eggs. SoRBEL, in Gravy.*^—Mince, and put it into a saucepan, with butter, bacon, parsley, and scallions ; add a glass of consomme I set it over a moderate fire, and when quite soft, put to it some fowl gravy, or veal blond. Make the sauce thick, and do not let it boil, cover the sorrel when served. Sorrel, Omelet of.—Pick, wash, and blanch some sorrel, cut it in pieces, and fry it lightly in a little butter, with shred parsley and scallions; then put the sor- rel into a saucepan, with a little cream; season, and let it boil slowly: in the meantime make an omelet in the usual way, lay it on a dish, thicken the sorrel with the yolks of two eggs, pour it on the omelet, and serve it very hot. Sorrel (Pwr^e o/).*—Take as much sorrel as you may require for a dish ; take also three or four hearts of lettuces, and a handful of chervil, both picked and shred small, and then press them well to extract all the moisture ; put them into a saucepan, with some butter, champig- nons, shalots, and parsley, all chopped small, (ihcFe last fried lightly in butter); put the sorrel on these, and dress it; when sufficiently done, add four ladiesful of veloute, and the yolks of five or six eggs; strain it through a bolting cloth, and put it aside till wanted. To make this purcemaigre prepare the sorrel as above, but instead of the veloute, mix the yolks of six eggs with two des- sert spoonsful of flour, and three vlasscs of milk, and then put it in ; reduce it over a brisk fire, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon ; then strain it thtough a bolting cloth, and keep it hot till wanted.sou ( 456 ) sou SonnEL Sauce.—Pick and thoroughly wasli two (ioul)lc hamlsfulof young sorrel, well drain it from water, and then put it into a stewpan, welt covered with a bit of butter, and let it stew very gently over a slow tire ; when done, put it to drain on a sieve for three minutes, then, with a wooden spoorr, rub it through a tammy into a dish; put it into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, stirring it over the lire till thoroughly mixed ; you may add, if you choose, three spoonsful of good co7i- smimie, HTiii when it has boiled lor a few minutes, add to it half as much cream sauce as there is sorrel, and if necessary season with a little salt; this is proper for a fricandeatt of veal or entrees of lish. SounEi. Soup.—Pick Irorn the stalks, and well wash in several waters, two pecks of young sorrel, then squeeze it well to drain the water from it, and set it to stew on a slow tir e with nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, till done. Drain it for two minutes on a hair sieve, and put it again in a stewpan with a small bit of butter, on a slow tire ; when the but- ter is melted, add tralf a pint of co7i- soinnU ; when nearly reduced, add ano- ther, then seven or eight table spoons- ful of plain .‘■auce. When all is well boiled together, rub it through a tammy, adding a quart of consomme while you pass it. Let it bojl very gently ttvo hours before the dinner, and add six eggs, arrd half a pint of crearrt, mixed together, as directed for other soups; put this in the minute before it is served up ; if it should not be strong enough to your palate, boil down some beef-stock, and mix in with it. SoariEL Stewed for Fricandeatt and Jloast Meat.—Thoroughly wash the sor- rel, and then put it into a silver vessel or stone jar, with no mure water than hangs to the leaves. Let it simmer as slowly as possible, and wherr sufliciently done, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. SOUHISE.*—Make a puree of onions, as directed in Sauce Robert; set it on a slow fire, and when dissolved, add four ladiesful of veloute, a quart of cream, and the size of n walnut of sugar; keep it constantly siirring over a brisk fire until thick, then strain it through a bolt- ing, and serve. tSouFFi.E Francais.*—Make a croustade eleven inches in diameter, and three and three-quarters in height; put round it tiiree sheets of buttered paper, and lt» Take twelve glasses of Iroiling milk, in which infuse whatever ingredients you jnay think proper, such ns vanilla, coflee, orange-flowers, &c. (the pioporiions will be found under the different articles). | in the mean time, wash a pound of rice j thoroughly in warm water, then put it | into a saucepan of cold water, and when | it has boiled a few minutes, strain the rice, and put it with your infusion into another saucepan, and set it again on the fire ; as soon as it boils, place the saucepan on hot ashes, that the rice may burst gradually; in three-quarters of an hour, add a pound of powder-sugar, three- quarters of a pound of fresh butler, and a pinch of salt, stir them well in ; put fresh hot ashes under the saucepan, that the ) rice maybe kept constantly simmeiing j for an hour, by which time it ought to. be perfectly soft, and should be rubbed through a bolting-cloth quickly, like a purie; put this into another saucepan over hot ashes, to keep it warm. Take sixteen eggs, separate the yolks and whites, beat the former well, and whisk the latter till nearly firm ; then mix liie yolks with the rice (taking off’the ashes); the preparation ought to be of the same consistence as a cream pdlissiere; add, at first, a quarter, and afterwards the | whole of the wliites; stir them in as r lightly as for biscuitpaste ; the whole be- i ing thoroughly amalgamated, pour it into j the croustade, and place it in a moderate f oven for two hours and a half; when | dune, cover a baking tin with red cinders, f on which place the souffle the moment • it is taken out of the oven ; this prevents j its falling, tvhilst you mask it with 1 powder-sugar, and gl.-.ze with the s.ala- i mander; carry it into the dining-room I on tile tin, have a dish ready with a I napkin folded on it; place the souffle on f the dish,and Ictiibeserved immediately, t Remember that a souffle c.annot be served i too quickly. SOUP (Rroivn) without Meat — Put 1 three quarts or more of water, with a j sufficient quantity of raspings to thicken it; two or three onions cut acros.». some whole pepper, and a little salt; cover it j close, atid let it boil an hour and a half; > take it off, and strain it through a sieve ; t fry in butter some celery, endive, lettuce, spinach, and any other herbs cut small; ' then take a stewpan (sufficiently large [ to hold all the ingredients and put in a j good piece of butter, stick in a li'tR- flour, and keep stirring till it is coloured of a nice brown; then put in the herbs and soup; boil it till the herbs are tender, I and the soup of a proper consistence, i then pour the soup into a tureen, amt I send to table ; serve with fried brc.id, eitlicr in the soup or in a dish. I Soup d /n (irimod.*—'\'\ tissacapon, and ' pat it into a saucepan with .i couple of pigeons, three pounds of steaks (all tied Isou SPI ( 457 ) up to keep them in proper form); fill the saucepan with good stock, set it on the fire, and skim it well, and then put in carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, celery, and two cloves; stew the whole, and when done, serve as follows;—the capon and pigeons in a deep dish, garnished with whole lettuces (previously cooked), srnall onions, carrots,and turnips, cut into dice ; these are also dressed previously; take the carrots, &c. which were done with the capon, cover the capon with them ; strain the liquor through a tammy, and serve in a tureen by itself as sauce to the capon. Soup, Hessian.*—Take two pounds of shin of beef, one pint of split peas, two onions, four carrots, six potatoes, two heads of celery, some whole pepper, salt, and five quarts of water; stew all to- gether till half the quantity is boiled away; then strain it through a hair sieve.’ Soup Maigre.—Moi\t half a pound of butter in a stewpan, shake it well ; as soon as it ceases to hiss, put in six mid- dling sized onions, sliced, sliake the pan well for five minutes, then put in five heads of celery, cut small, a handful or two of spinach", a cabbage-lettuce, and a bunch of parley, all cut small ; shake the.se all well tjgether in the. pan for a quarter of an hour; stir in some flour, then pour in two quarts of boiling water, some crusts of bread, some beaten pep- per, fonr blades of mace, pounded very fine ; stir the whole well together, and let it boil gently for half an hour ; take it off’, and stir in the yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar. Serve in a tureen. Soup de Sante.—Lay six or eight slices of lean bam, with some beef over them, at the bottom of a stewpan, then some veal, with some partridge-legs, or moor game, or chicken, salt, peppcr-corns, Jamaica-pepper, three or four cloves, a bay-leaf, and one clove of garlic; let the whole stew together till it takes a fine brown colour, then fill it up vvith half water, and half good beef stock; add three heads of celery, two good turnips, parsley, lemon, thyme, two carrot.s, three large onions, and a small bunch of winter savory ; when the whole is thoroughly well done, pass it through a lawn sieve into a basin. Cut two good sized turnips and three large leeks, into pieces, about the thickness of a quill, and an incli .and a half long ; fry these together of a nice brown colour ; next, shred two cabbage- lettuces, celery, endive, sorrel, and chervil ; and stew them down on a very slnw fire with a small bit of butter. When done, put them in a sieve with the turnips; then put them into a soup-po*^, and pour the soup from the basin over them ; set it on a stove, skim it, and as 8 )on as it boils, set it on one side, and let it simmer for two hours very gently ; take the crumb of a couple of French rolls, and cut it into round pieces, which brown in the oven, and put them into the tureen, and pour the soup upon thern, If you think proper, it may be clarified, the same as other clear soups ; but the real Soup de Sante ought not to be clarified. Soup, f-Vhite, without Meat.—Put two or three quarts of water into a saucepan, with the crumb of a small loaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, whole pepper, a few cloves, an onion or two cut across, and a little salt; cover close and boil till perfectly smooth; cut into small pieces some celery, endive, and lettuce, the white parts only; boil them, strain oH'the soup into a clean stewpan; put in the herbs, with a good piece of butter, keepstirr-ng till it is melted ; then let it boil till quite smooth ; skim it, soak some French roll, nicely rasped, in a little of the soup; put it in a tureen, pour tlie remainder of the soup over, and send to table. SPICED Bread {Common).* — Boil three pounds of honey in a gallon of wa- ter for a quarter of an hour; then pour it on the flour in the trough ; mix them together well, until the flour will imbibe no more liquid; when a little cooled, add three ounces of potash, infused the night before in half a pint of milk, knead the whole well, putting to it some pound- ed anise. Roll out the paste, and with paste-cutters of various forms, cut it into little figures, lay them on a well-oiled tin, and bake them; when done, wash them over with milk. With this paste spiced nuts are made; when formed lay, them on tins, and leave in a warm place for two or three days before they are baked. Spickd Bread {Dutch or Flemish).*— The evening before you wish to make your spiced bread, dissolve three ounces of white potash in half a pint of milk, and set it aside. The next morning put a considerable quantity of sifted flour into a trough, make a hole in the heap, into which pour six pounds of clarified honey; whilst boiling, stir it well with a strong spatula, until the honey, reditced to a. firm paste, will imbibe no more flour, then spread it all over the bottom of the. trough, and leave it for about ten nr li.- teen mtnutes ; at the end ol that time, if the paste be sulliciently cool for you to bear vottr hand on it, rub its surface with the infusion of potash; then let a strong persoti knead it, in the same manner asS PI 458 S PI thfi baker’s knead bread. Have ready a number of differeiit-sized moulds of pear- tree wood, on which are cut (pretty deep) octagons of various dimensions ; then cut your paste into as many pieces as you have moulds, in the following propor- tions;—for the mould containing a pound, take eighteen ounces of ])RSte ; for a half pound, fourteen ounces; a quarter of a ound seven ounces of paste, and so on ; nead each piece separately on the slab, rub them with flour to prevent their ad- hering, and then put them into the re- spective moulds; press it down tight; in a minute or two turn tl.'em over, place them on a tin plate (previously rubbed with olive oil), and with a soft brush take off'what flour may remain on the surface of the spiced bread, and bake them in a moderate oven. Whilst they are baking, dissolve some isinglass in a sufficient quantity of beer, with which, by means of a hair pencil, wash the outside of the spiced bread as soon as it is done; and theti, while it is moist and warm, deco- rate it with blanched almonds, candied lemon and orange-peel, cut into dice. You may, if you think proper, cut these sort of sweet meatsinto very small pieces, and knead them into your paste at first. When they are nearly cold, separate the pieces with a knife. Spiced Bread {Dutch) Rich.*—Make your paste in the same manner asabove, and when kneaded with the potash, add a quarter of a pound of anise, two ounces of coriander, two ounces of cinnamon, one ounce of cloves (all reduced to an impalpable powder) a pound of candied lemon-peel, the same of candied orange- peel, both cut into thin slices ; mix these ingredieiits thoroughly with the paste, jind then cut it into pieces, each weigh- ing twenty-eight ounces; these, lyhen baked, will notexceeda pound in weight; spread them on your slab; and form them into squares two or three inches in thick- ness; place them, side by side, on a baking-tin, previously rubbed with oil of almonds, and put round the tin some slips of wood to prevent the spiced bread from getting thinner at the edges ; dip a brush in some_ milk, and rub the sur- face of the spiced bread with it; put them into a moderate oven until well jisen and of a brownish colour. Whilst they are baking, blanch a few almonds, and Split them, cut some candied lemon nnd orange-peel into very thin slices, and as soon as the spiced bread is taken from the oven, wash it over with a de- eoctisn of isinglass and beer, and ininie- (liafely decoiate It with thcalmonds. &c. Another //'i/y.—Take a pound of liquorice, boil it in six quarts of milk. until the fluid is reduced to half; then strain it into a saucepan, add six pounds of honey, and boil for a quarter of an hour; after which pour it into a trough upon the flour, with which mix it up by means of a strong spatula; when the liquid has taken up as much flour as it will possibly contain, extend it along the bottom of the trough; as soon as it is a little cooled, put to it half a jiint of milk, in which was infused, the night before, three ounces of the best potash, knead it well, and then add cinnamon, corian- der, and anise (two ounces of each), an ounce and a half of cloves, all reduced to powder, a pound of candied lemon, and the same of candied orange-peel, chopped small. Finish as above directed, except that milk should be washed over them, in'-tead of isinglass, when baked. Spiced Bread {Rotterdam).*—Make your paste as directed with the liquorice, milk, and honey, without any spices, roll it out very thin (about the eighth of an inch), cut this into pieces the size of a playing card, place them on a baking- tin well rubbed with olive oil, and bake them in a moderate oven; when done, wash them over with sugar, boiled with orange-flower water to a syrup. Let them dry, and tie them in packets, four in each. SPINACH, Boiled.—Spinach issome- times extremely gritty; it must there- fore be picked and ihorouglily well washed in several waters; then put it into a large saucepan of boiling water with plenty of salt in it, let it boil till done, take it out, put it into a cullender, squeeze it to drain it from the water, then cut it in squares, lay it on a dish, and serve it to table. Spinach d la Bonne Femme.*—Havirg thoroughly washed and picked your spi- nach, scald it well; do it quickly that it may keep its colour; then add three onions stuck with cloves, some sweet herbs, sail, and pepper. \\ hen the spi- nach is quite done, drain it; mince and put it into another saucepan in a little melted butler, and half a glass of cream, or good milk ; stir all together well, and serve very hot. Spinach in Boxes.— Cut bits of bread tolerably thick, and give them the form of little boxes of any shape; scoop out the inside without breaking througb. leave a border of a m oper thickness, and fry them of a good brown colour, in but- ter, oil or lard ; drain them the same ns all frituics, and fill them with a well se.nsoned spinach ragout; serve with or without a cover. . Spinach Tr/ffers.—Boil some spinacli thoroughly, drain, mince, and add to itS P I (4 9 ) STO (SI some grated bread, nutmeg, ginger, and ij cinnamon, all pounded ; as much cream, or yolks and whites of eggs, as will rnake it the consistence of hatter; mix in a few currants, previously scalded, and drop the batter into a frying-pan, on boiling lard ; as soon as they rise, take them out, drain, and serve them. Spinach au 3/a/gre.*—Having blanch- j ed and minced your spinach, ptit it into S| a pan, with nearly a quarter of a pound >1 of butter, salt, and pepper ; set it on the h fire, and when the spinach is fried a little. Ij add two dessert spoonsful of flour, and some milk, stir till it thickens, and then serve. j Spinach Pudding. — Pick and well 'I wash a quarter of a peck of spinach, and boil it until quite tender; a little ij salt should be put into the water it is boiled in, and the saucepan must be kept closely covered ; when boiled, put it in a sieve to drain, and then cut it small ; beat up six eggs, and mix them with half a pint of cream, or milk, a stale roll grated very line, a little grated nutmeg, and a quarter of a pound of melted but- ter, stir all well together, put them into the saucepan the spinach was stewed in, and keep stirring it till it begins to thicken ; then weta pudding cloth, flour it well, put in the mixture, tie it up, and boil for an hour; turn it out on a dish, pour over it melted butter, with a little Seville orange-juice and sugar mixed in it, and serve. Spi.vach Puffs.—Take as much boiled spinach as is equal to four eggs, squeeze it quite dry, shred it small, and add half the quantity of powder-sugar, the same of butter, four spoonsful of cream, the yolks of four hard boiled eggs, and two ounces of citron, the two latter minced ; season with beaten cinnamon and grated nutmeg ; put them all into a stewpan to simmer a little while, and then set them by to cool. Make a paste with the yolks of four eggs, four spoonsful of milk, and some flour, a pinch of salt, and the same of sugar ; roll it out very thin, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, and upon each piece lay a spoonful of the .spinach, as above, turn the paste o ver,and pinch the edges round neatly, in the form of a semi-circle. These puffs may be either boiled a quarter of an hour, and served with grated bread and Parmesan cheese strewed over them, or fried in boiling lard, and sent to table with pow- der sugar over. Spinach 7'nrf.*—Take some spinach, clean it thoroughly, as it is apt to be gritty, pick and scald it, and give it a lew turns in a little butter, with salt and nutmeg. Mix the spinach with frangi- pane, and finish the tart like that of/ran- gipane. . . Spinach Tart. — Scald the spinach m boiling water, drain it well, and then chop it; stew it in butter and cream, with a little salt, sugar, a few small bits of dried comfitcitron, and a few drops of orange-flower water ; put it into a dish lined with tlie very bestpuH-paste. Spinach Toasts.—Boil some spinach for a quarter ol an hour ; then squeeze out all the water, chop it small, and put it into a mortar, with three or four spoons- ful of apple marmalade, the yolks of four hard-boiled, and three raw eggs, two bis- cuits soaked in cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt; pound all these together to a paste, put it into a dish, and mix with it a few dry currants, and three or four spoonsful of melted butter. Cut some slices of bread half an inch thick, four inches long, and two broad ; toast them nicely, and spread the spinach, &c. over them, to the thickness of halt an inch, wash each over with white of egg; place the toasts on a baking-tin (well buttered) and bake them for half an hour. When done, grate nutmeg, and squeeze orange- juice over them, and serve. SPRATS.—Sprats are chosen by the same rules as heriings.andare dressed in the same manner. (See Herrmgs.) STOCK,/or Braivn or IVhite Soups.— Take a pound of scate, five flounders, and two pounds of eels; cut them in pieces, put them into a stewpan, with as much water as will cover them, a little mace, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, some pepper and salt, and a bunch of sweet herbs j cover close; strain it off for use ; if it is for brown soup, fry the fish brown in butter, and then put it to stew. Stock (for Gravy Soup or Gravy.)— Cut a knuckle of veal into slices, slice also a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of gammon of bacon ; put these into a stewpan, with three scraped car- rots, a couple of onions, a couple of tur- nips, two heads of celery, and two quarts of water. Let the meat stew till quite tender, butit must not be brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, it must be first coloured in the usual manner. Stock-fish d la Gascogne.*—Vwt the dried cod (alter it has been prepared, and pulled into flakes) into a stewpan, with equal quantities of sweet oil and fresh butter, pepper, garlic, and salt; place the stewpan on a stove, stirring constantly, until the butler and oil arc thoroughly incorporated: as soon as that is the case, it should be eaten, bc- 2R2S T U 8 T R ( 460 cause if it becomes cool, it turns inime- diiitely. Stock-FISH d la ProvcnQule*—Prepare a dried cod, boil, bone, and cut it in pieces. Melt seme butter rolled in flour, in a stewpan,aiid put to it parsley, scal- lions, (?arlic, a glass ofeream, the same of oil, and some Seville orange-peel; as soon as this is well flavoured, put in your fish and toss it up for some time; tlie longer this operation is performed, the better the disn will be. STRAWBERRY {Comprde nf).—This is made in the same manner as Rasp- berries, only that the strawberries do not require being mixed with any other fruit. Strawbehry Conserve.*—Take some very ripe fresh strawberries, pick, and crush them through a tammy. For every dessert spoonful of juice, allow six ounces of sugar; boil this [ofort perle, take it off the fire, and pour in the juice; stir them together with a silver spoon, until the conserve begins to whiten and dry, then put it into moulds or paper cases. If the conserve be too white, add a little carmine to the syrup. Strawberry Cream.—Put six ounces of strawberry jam to a pint of cream, pulp it througli a sieve; add to it the juice of a lemon, whisk it fast at the edge of a dish, lay the froth on a sieve, add a little more juice of lemon, and when no more froth will rise, put the cream into a dish, or into glasses ; and place the froth upon it, well drained. Strawberry, lee Cream.—Take a pint of strawberries, pick them from the stalks, and pass them through a sieve, with a wooden spoon ; add four ounces of powdered sugar, and a pint of cream, and freeze. Strawberry Fritters.—Make a paste with flour, a spoonful of sweet oil, chop- ped lemon-peel, whites of egg, beaten up, and a sullicient quantity of white wine to make it pretty soft, and just ready to drop with a spoon ; mix some large straw- berries in it; and drop some of the mix- ture, about the size of a nutmeg, in the hot fritters; w'hen done, take them out carefully, drain them on a sieve, and glaze them with sugar. Strawberry Jam.*—Gather the scar- let strawberries when perfectly ripe, bruise tb.em well, and add the juice of other strawberries; take an equal weight of lump sugar, pound and sift it, stir it thoroughly into the fruit, and set it on a slow fire ; boil it twenty minutes, taking ofV the scum as it rises; pour it into lasses, or jars, and when c Id, tic them Strawberry, Marchpane.*—Take two pounds of sweet al monds, two pounds and a half of sugar, and a pound of picked strawberries. Beat the almonds to a fine paste, and mix them with the sugar (boiled petit bottle); crush, and strain the juice of the fruit, which add to the almond paste and syrup; stir the mix- ture well, set it on hot ashes, and am- tinue stirring until the paste is suffici- ently done ; this may be proved by lay- ing a piece on the back of your hand; if it may be removed without its sticking, it is enough ; when cold, spread it over a slab, and cut it of any size and shape you think proper. Strawberries. Preserved in IVine.— Put some very fine large strawlierries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three spoonsful of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira, or good sherry. Strawberry SAerie/.* — Take four- teen ounces of picked strawberries, cru>h them in a mortar, and then add to them a quart of water; pour this into a basin, with a tea-spoonful of lemon acid, and the same of orange-flower water, and leave the mixture two or three hours; put eighteen ounces of fine sugar into another basin, cover it with a large cloth, through which pour the strawberry juice; squeeze the cloth to extract as much as possible from it. When the sugar is en- tirely dissolved, run the whole through a jelly bag, until perfectly clear; then finish as usual. Strawberries, Sottffle, Parisian of.*~ Take a basket of very fine strawberries, pick, and crush them, and then rub them through a sieve. Whisk the whites of eighteen eggs to a firm froth, to which add a pound and a half of powder sugar, stir them together as iighlly as possible ; then mix them with the strawberries. Pour the whole into a croiistade, and bake it for an hour in a moderate oven ; when done, glaze it, and serve Strawberry Tart. — Pick, and put into a basin two qu.art.s of the best scarlet strawberries, then add to them half a pint of cold thick clarified sugar, and hiilfapintof madeira, with the juice of two or three lemons ; mix these well together, without breaking the slraw- berries, and put them in>o a puff paste, previously baked; be careful to keep them very cool. STURG KON.—Of a good sturgeon the flesh should be white, the gristles and veins blue, the irrain even, with a few blue veins, and tlie skin tender. Sturgeo.n, Baked.*—Clean, and take the skin from a small sturgeon ; split it along the belly, without separating it. Lay it in a large baking-dish, season it with salt, pepper, pounded sweet herbs;S T U SUE ( 461 ) moisten with oil, lemon-juice, and a bot- tle of white wine. Put it in the oven, baste it frequently; make it a nice colour, and serve it with its own gravy. Sturgeon, au Court-houillon.*—Take a small sturgeon, clean the inside tho- roughly, take out the gills, and remove the skin, wash it well, and drain it. Put it into a fish-kettle, with a rich eoxirt- houillon, grated bacon, or butter. It requires more seasoning than any other fish ; put therefore plenty of sweet herbs, and salt; set it on the fire, and put fire on the lid ; moisten it often ; wlien done, drain, and serve it witli an Italienne, to which add the liquor, with a bitof butter. Sturgeon, Cutlets en Pupillotes.* — Having cleaned and skinned the fish, cut it into cutlets, about an inch thick ; put B bit of butter into a pan, lay in the cut- lets, set them on the fire, and turn them. Set them to cool in fine herbs, or dur- celles, and finish like veal cutlets, en Pa- pillotes. If your dish is maigre, put pounded anchovies ; if gras, use bacon. Sturgeon, Fricandeau of.*—Take a good sized piece of sturgeon, and having removed the skin and gristle, beat it lightly with the blade of the chopper, and lard it with bacon. Line a stewpan with thin slices of ham, veal, some car- rots, onions, and sweet herbs. Moisten with white wine, cover it with a buttered paper, and stew it. When done, take out the fish, strain the liquor, take off the fat, add three spoonsful of espagnole, re- duce your sauce, pour it into a dish, and serve the sturgeon on it. Sturgeon, (irillade of.*—Boil a slice of sturgeon in a small saucepan, with some slices of bacon, bay-leaves, salt, pepper, basil, and white wine. When done, let it cool, cover it with bread- crumbs, broil the slice, and serve with e,wxccpiquante. Sturgeon (Matelote o/).*—Cut a large slice of sturgeon into pieces of various sizes ; put them into a frying-pan witli a little butter, do them on both sides over a gentle fire, then take them out; and put into the pan a glass of red wine, a pinch of flour, and some sweet herbs shred small; in a quarter of an hour replace the fish for a minute, and serve all together on fried bread. Sturgeon Rousted.* — 'Ta.V.t a large piece of sturgeon, or a whole small one, clean and skin it properly ; lard it with eel and anchovies, and marinade it in a white wine marinade. Fasten it to the spit, and roast it, basting frequently with the marinade strained. Let the fish be a nice colour, and serve with a pepper sauce. Sturgeon in Savory Jelly.—a little aspic or savory jelly into the bottom of a mould, and ns soon as it is set, cut some cold sturgeon in whatever form you please, and place it on the jelly accord- ing to your own taste, and put in a little jelly, j ust suflicient to cover the sturgeon; when it is thoroughly set, put in some more jelly, so as to fill about an inch of the mould; when that is set, place some more sturgeon, and so proceed till the mould is full; when it is to be turned out to serve, dip it in warm water the same as all other jellies. Sturgeon So^lp.—Take a fine piece of sturgeon,cutoif the fins, and the gristly bone inside, with the skin ; put it all to stew, with a bunch of sweet herbs, car- rots, onions, peppercorns, allspice, and a little salt, and let it stew till of a nice brown colour, then fill it up with veal consomme, half a bottle of Madeira, and a quarter of a pint of good vinegar; when well boiled ana skimmed, put in a large piece of sturgeon to stew very gently, with a fire over and under the stewpan, till it is thoroughly well done; then take it out to cool, and strain the liquor through a lawn sieve, thicken it with ham, as directed for turtle soup; boil it in the same manner. When ready, cut the sturgeon into small squares, and put them into the soup with a few stewed oysters and mushrooms; let it boil gently for a few minutes, skim it, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons, and add a very small quantity of cayenne, and serve ; if not sufficiently strong, reduce a little beef stock and add to it. Herbs may be added if thought proper. Sturgeon d la Venitienne. • — Take a large slice of sturgeon, and having re- moved the skin and gristles, lard it alter- nately with seasoned lardons, truffles, and anchovies ; place it in a braising-pan with bay-leaves, two cloves of garlic, and a large glass of oil. Set the pan over a gentle fire, to simmer for two or three hours; then serve with any maigre sauce you may think proper Suet Dumplmgs.—This batter should be made the same as for suet pudding, (second recipe), but much thicker, let your cloth be wetted, shake it all over with flour, and tie up in several parts of the cloth, as much as it will hold, two or three spoonsful of batter. Or you may make the batter as usual, and put it in tea-cups, well buttered; tie them in cloths, and boil an hour. Suet to keep for a Tivelvemont/i. — Choose the firmest part, and pick it free from skin and veins. Put it into a sauce- pan, and set it at some dislance from the fire, in order that the suet may melt without frying, or it will taste disagreea- 2 II dS U G t 4G-2 ) S U G Lie. AVlien it is melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. VVLen it has caked finite hard, wipe it very dry, fold it in line paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep it in a dry, but not in a hot place. When you ivish to use it, scrape it fine, and it will make a nice crust, either with or without butter. Suet Pudding.—Mix a pound and a quarter of flour, to a pound of shred suet, with two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Let it boil for four hours. It eats very nice the next day, cut in slices and broiled. Suet Pudding.—Vv\t six spoonsful of flour into a stewpan, with a little grated nutmeg and ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt, then put in a pound and a half of beef suet chopped fine ; stir these well together, and then mix in a quart of milk, and six eggs, well beaten together ; butter, a basin, and shake some flour round it, put in your batter, and boil it for two hours and a half, or three hours. - Suet Pudding.—Tdka half a pound of beef suet chopped fine, half a pound of flour, two eggs well beaten, a little salt, and a small quantity of pounded and sifted sugar; mix all these together with a little milk, to a moderate consistence. It may either be boiled or baked. Suet Pudding.—Chop half a pound of beef suet very line, add to it the same quantity of flour, two eggs beaten, a little s.alt, a small quantity of pounded and sifted ginger; mix all tliese well together ■with.milk to a moderate consistence. It may be either baked or boiled. SUGAR {To Clarify).* — Ta\iQ four pounds of sugar, and break it into pieces; put into a preserving-pan the white of an egg, and a glass of pure spring water; mix them well with a whisk, add another glass, still whipping, until two quarts of •B'ater have been put in; when the pan is full of froth, throw in the sugar,_ and set it on tlie fire, being careful to skim it every time the scum rises, rvhich will be the case as the sugar boils up. After a few boilings, the sugar will rise so high as to run over the edges of the pan, to prevent winch, thiow on it a little cold water; this will lower it instantly, and give time for the skimming, for the scum should never be taken ofl'whilst the sugar is bubbling; the cold water stills it, and that is the moment to skim it. Repeat tins operation carefully three or four times, widen a whitish light scum only will rise; then take the pan ofli lay a napkin, slightly wetted, over a basin,and pour the sugar through it. The scum thus taken ofl', put info a china basin; and when the sugar is cla- rified, wash the pan and the skimmer with a glass of water, whicli put to ihe scum, and set it aside for more common purposes. SuGanj Different Degrees of Prepar- ing. — The various purposes to which sugar is applied, require it to be in dif- ferent state.s ; tliese are called degrees, and are thirteen in number, called as follows: Petit Lisse, or First Degree.—Replace the clarified sugar in the preserving-pan, to boil gently, lake a drop of it on the thumb, touch it with the fore-finger; if, on opening them, it draws to a fine thread, and in breaking, forms two droi« on each finger, it is at the right point. Lisse, Second Degree.—A little more boiling brings it to this point; when the thread will draw further before it breaks. Petit Perle, Third Degree.— At this point the thread may be drawn as far as the span will open, without breaking. Grand Perle, Fourth De^ee. — On still increasing the boiling, little raised balls are formed on the surface of the sugar. Petit Queue de Cochon, Fifth Degree. —Take up some of the sugar on a skim- mer, and drop it on the rest, when it should form a slanting streak on the sur- face. Boil it a little longer, and it wilL reach the Grande Queue de Cochon, or Sixth De- gree. —The streak or tail is now larger. Souffle, Seventh Degree.— Take out a skimmei ful of the sugar, blow through it, and small sparks of sugar will fly from it. Petit-Plume, Eighth Degree. — The same proof ns above ; the spai ks should be laiger and stronger. Grande Plume. Ninth Degree.—Take the sugar in the skimmer, as before, give it a shake, and if the sparks are large, and adhere tegelher on rising, it is at ti e right point. Petit Boulet, Tenth Degree. — Dip your fingers in cold water, and then into the sugar instantly, and again into the water, when the sugar will roll into a ball, wliich will be supple when cold. Gros Jioulei, Eleventh Degree.—At this point, the b.ill or bullet will be harder wlien cold than at the last. Cause, Twelfth Degree. — Prove as above ; tlie btillet should crumble Ix*- tween the fingers, and on biting, will stick to the teeth ; at tlie next point, Caramel. Thirteenth Degree, — it should simp clean. This point is very diflienlt to attain, for in increasing^ the liciglit, the sugar is apt to burn ; ir is better therefore to try the proof very frequently.( 463 ) i S Y L S U G Another caramel is frequently used by the confectioner, and is of a deep colour; it is made by pnttinK a little water to the sugar, and boiling it without skimming, !■ or otherwise touching the sugar, till of the right colour, then take it oll'and use immediately. If, on preparing the sugar, you happen to miss the right point, add a little cold water, and boil once more. ] Observa/ions.—The skiuimer should never be left in tlie preserving-pan after the sugar is clarified, nor after the scum [i is removed. i Be very careful not to stir or disturb the sugar, as that would cause its dimi- nution. j In boiling the sugar (particularly the M two last degrees), the sugar is continually rising and falling; and on falling, leaves marks on the sides of the pan, which the heat of the fire would soon burn, and thereby spoil the wliole of the sugar ; to avoid this, have by the side of you a pan of cold water, and a sponge, with which wipe the sides of the pan carefully, the instant after the sugar has fallen. I SuGAa d la Neige.*—Blanch a quarter j of a pound of bitter almonds, pound them to a very fine paste in a marble mortar, with the whites of four eggs; when per- I fectly smooth, add a pound of the best .] lump sugar (in powder), and five or six more whites of eggs; stir all together I well, until of such consistence that it I may be kneaded without adhering to the liands. Divide this preparation into two parts, one of which, tinge of a red colour, '! either with bolus armena, or cochineal, and perfume it with essential oil of roses i; or bergamot; leave the other portion of I paste white, but flavour it as follows ,1 grate the rind of two fine sound lemons i| on a small piece of sugar, scrape off the I surface, and when pounded in a small mortar, work it into the uncoloured por- 'I tion of sugar-paste, then roll it out to il about half an inch in thickness (having I previously sprinkled the slab with pow- der-sugar), cut it with a tin paste-cutter i about two inches diameter; arrange them on white paper, whicli place on a baking ; tin, and put them into a moderate oven I for about three-quarters of an hour; I proceed in the same manner with the I coloured'paste. When cold, detach them from the paper. I Sugar Pasfe.—Take a pound of flour, 1 a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter ' of a pound of butter, a little salt, one egg ; mix all together with a little water. This paste may be used for any second- course dish. Sugar Vinegar.—To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil, and skim it thoroughly, then put one quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, but not cold, put into it a toast spread with yeast; stir it for nine days, at the end of which time barrel it, and place it in such a situation that the sun may lie on it; put a slate on the bung-hole. The_ best time to make it is in March; it will be fit for use in six months. Wlren sufficiently sour, it should be bottled, or it may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. SWEETBREADS. — (See under the articles, Veal, Beef, &c.) Sweetbread Pie.—Lay a puff’ paste, half an inch thick, at the bottom of a deep dish, and put a forcemeat round the sides; cut three or four sweetbreads in pieces, according to the size of the pie, lay them in fir.^t, then some artichoke- bottoms, each cut into four parts; then some cocks’-combs, a few ti umes, morels, asparagus-top.', and mushrooms, yolks of hard boiled egg.', and forcemeat balls; season with pepper and salt; nearly fill the pie with water, put on the lid, and let it bake for two hours. Thicken some veal gravy with a little cream and flour, and pour into the pie when baked. SWEETMEATS, Brown.* — These sweetmeats may be made with the cut- tings and remains of any kind of sugars or candied articles, and even of spiced bread; pound whatever ingredients you intend to use, extremely fine, and pass the powder through a tammy on to the table ; in the centre of this heap make a hollow, into which put as many eggs as may be necessary to form a paste, then cinnamon, cloves, and bolus armena, all reduced to an impalpable powder ; use only a sufficient quantity of the latter to give the paste a clear cinnamon colour ; sugar may be added, if required. Work all the above, ingredients together into a firm paste with a little flour, then roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut out of it, with tin paste-cutters, figures of any kind you may think proper; place them on white paper, and hake them for half an hour. When done, decorate them according to your taste. Sweetmeat Pudiling.—^Wce thin, of orange, lemon-peel, ai\d citron, an otinc.e each ; lay them at the bottom of a dish, lined with a light pufl-paste; ntix with half a pound of butter melted, the yolks of seven eggs and the whites of two, and five omices of sugar ; pour this over the siyeetmeats, and set it in tlte oven ; it will take rather more than half an hour baking. SYLLABUBS.*-Take the juice of a( 464 ) TAN TAR taree lemon, the peel (pared very thinj, a glass of brandy, two of white wine, and a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar J put these ingredients into a pan, and leave them ; the next day, add a pint of thick cream, and the whites of two eggs ; whip the whole well, and pour the syl- labub into glasses. 'J’hey are the better for keeping a day or two. If the sylla- bubs are not wanted quite so good as the above, raisin or mountain wine will do as well as brandy. Syllabub, Somersetshire.—Put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or any other white wine, into a large bowl, sweeten it according to taste ; milk the bowl full; in about twenty minutes’ time, cover it tolerably high with clouted cream ; grate nutmeg over it; add pounded cinnamon, and nonpareils. Syllabub, Staffordshire.—Put a pint of cyder, a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. T. TABLETTES de Patience.* — Tak& eight eggs, and whip the whites to a firm snow; in the mean time have the yolks beaten up with six ounces of powder-su- gar; (both these operations should be performed for at least half an hour); then mix the two together, add six ounces of sifted flour, and when well incorporat- ed, pour in half a pint of rose or orange- flower water ; stir tlie whole together for some time. Have ready some tin plates, well rubbed with butter: take a funnel that has three or four tubes, fill it with the paste, and push out your tablettes; when the tin plates are full, put them into a pretty warm oven. When done, take them from the tins whilst hot. TANSEY Fritters. — Pour a pint of boiling milk on the crumb of a small loaf grated ; let it stand for an hour to cool, then add as much tansey juice as will flavour it, .and colour it with a little spinach juice; add a spoonful of ratafia, or brandy, grate the rind of hall a lemon, Eupr according to taste, beat up the yolks of four eggs, and mix all together, put it into a stewpan, wiih a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir it over a slow fire till quite thick ; then take it oil', and let it stand nearly three hours, then drop a spoonful at a time into boiling lard ; when done, grate sugar over them, and serve. Garnish the dish with slices of orange, and serve wine sauce in a boat. Ta.vsev Fritters.—Pound some tansey with a few almonds, a carp-roe, and the crumb of a small loaf; mix with the paste some powder-sugar, and a little rose- water; fry them in butter; drain, sprin- kle sugar over, and serve them very hot. Tansey Pudding.—Blanch and pound very fine a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, then put them into a stewpan ; add a quarter of a pint of syrup of roses, the crumb of a French roll, a little grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy, two table- spoonsful of tansey juice, three ounces of fresh butter, and some slices of citron; pour over this a pint of boiling cream or milk, sweeten according to taste, and when cold, mix all well together; add the juice of a lemon, and eight eggs beaten. It may be either baked or boiled. Tansey Pudding.—'EesX. up the yolks of twelve, and the whites of four eggs ; put to them a quart of cream; colour this with spinach juice, and flavour with tansey juice, add a little salt, some nut- meg, and a good pinch of flour; put this into a dish lined with a light pull-paste, and bake it in a brisk oven ; it will take half an hour baking. Serve to table gar- nished with Seville orange, cut in slices, and candied peel. TA PIOC A Puddi7ig.*—'P\iX. four table- spoonsful of tapioca into a quart of milk, and let it remain all night, then put a spoonful of brandy, some lemon-peel, and a little spice; let them boil gently, add four eggs, and the whites well beaten, aud a quarter of a pound of sugar. Bake it. TARRAGON Cream.—Boil some tar- ragon in half a pint of cream and a pint of milk, as long as is necessary to flavour it; tlicu strain the cream, and, if to be served hot, add the yolks of five eggs, and some flour; when well mixed, pour the preparation into a dish, place it in the bain-marie to set. If it is to be served cold, when the cream is strained, and no more than lukewarm, put in a little ren- net ; strain it into your table dish, lay a tin over it, on which put hot embers, place the dish also on embers, and let it remain till set. Tarbagon Sauce.— Put two table- spoonsful of tarragon vinegar into a a.aucepan, and reduce it to half the quan- tity, then put to it six spoonsful of good butter sauce, a little tarragon, and cher- vil chopped, and mix all well together, and if not sufficiently strong, put in .a little bit of glaze, and a very little more tarragon vinegar. Tarragon Sauce.* — Put into a sauce- pan two or three sliced, onions, two car- rots also sliced, and a bit of veal cut into dice; set them on the fire, and when they begin to stick, and brown, add someTAR TEA ( 46a ) ^ good stock, simmer for about an hour; ) then put in a little shred tarragon leaves, ) two or three slices of Seville-orange, > salt, pepper, and nutmeg; in a quarter 1 of an hour’s time strain ir. Tarragon S««ce.*—Cut some tarra- gon leaves into squares, or lozenges, and 1 scald them ; put some consomme or ve- > louti ; set it on the coiner of the stove, J take ott' all tlie fat, make the sauce boil, 1 throw in the leaves, add a small quantity ij of vinegar, and some butter, and serve. I Tarragon Vinegar*—Take some tar- 1 ragon. dry it in the sun, and then put it ! into ajar, which fill with vinegar; let it i infuse for a fortnight, then draw it oft, i! express all the liquid from the dregs, t and filter the whole; bottle it; cork them -) well, and keep them in a cool place. TARTE Royale Take half : a pound of sweet almonds, and having ’ blanched, pound them with six eggs, in a I marble mortar to a very fine paste, add J to it a pound of broken sugar, a pound of j fresh butter, and the grated rind of two f lemons, beat it well as each ingredient is J put in; lay about sixteen or eighteen I ounces of sifted flour on the slab, place f the almond-paste on it, and knead them I well together. Divide this into several pieces, which roll to the eighth of an t inch in thickness; from these cut from I twelve to sixteen circular layers, the L largest about seven inches in diameter, t the rest, each somewhat smaller than the )] other; wlien all are cut, place thein on n white paper on tins, and bake them in a t moderate oven to a clear brown, then t take them out, and let them cool. As I soon as cold, place the largest piece on a ^ china dish, of a sufficient size to let it lay 1] flat, and spread over it equally some pre- ij served fruit; cover this with the second si sized layer, on which also spread pre- :j served fruit; then a third layer, and so I on until all the paste is used, taking care t to put each layer in its proper order, so i| that the whole may form a cone, and that 'I between every one must be a different ! kind of preserve ; when done, glaze, and i ornament it as follows ; cut some candied I lemon, and orange-peel into the form of [ leaves, which arrange in garlands round r the tart, putting here and there a small [ preserved fruit; when done, replace it in t the oven for two or three minutes to dry, I and then serve. TARTLETS.— Butter some small f tartlet pans ; line them with a nice thin i; puff-paste, mark it neatly round the >: edges, bake them ; when they are cold, I fill them with custard, preserve, or any f sweetmeat you think proper, and if you » choose, pour custard over. Tartlets.—Cover with a thin short paste two or three dozen small tartlet pans, then put into them any preserve or sweetmeat you think proper ; then shred some paste very fine, and neatly cross them over; there are moulds for this purpose, which do them much neater and more quickly ; when they are all done, egg them, lay them on a baking tin, and bake them in a quick oven. TEA Cream.—Infuse an ounee of the beat green tea in half a pint of boiling milk, simmer it live minutes, then strain it through a tammy, pressing the leaves well. Boil a pint of rich cream, add to it the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar ; pour this whilst hot to the milk, stirthein together well; put in as much clarified isinglass as will set it, and pour the cream into the mould, or glasses; place them on ice; when perfectly cold, turn it out of the mould, or serve in the glasses. Tea Cream.* — Boil two drachms (or more) of good green tea in a quart of milk; in a few minutes strain it; add three yolks of eggs well beaten, a quarter of a pound of powder-sugar; set it on the fire, and reduce it to half, then strain it again ; when cold, serve it. Tea Ice.*—Take two drachms of the best tea, tie it in a bit of muslin, and boil it in two quarts of cream ; when the in- fusion is sufficiently strong, take out the muslin, squeeze it well, and mix the cream with the eggs and sugar as direct- ed. (See Ice Cream). TEAL d la Batetiere. * — Take the Ieg=, fillets, and rumps of some teal, cut the fillets lengthwise in three pieces, put them all into a stewpan with a bit of but- ter, some chopped shalots, and parsley, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; set it on a fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes, then add a dessert-spoonful of flour, and a glass of white wine ; stir, till it boils; if the sauce be too thin, add half a glass more wine. Stir in the juice of two lemons, a little of the peel, two or three ladiesful of stock, just before serving. Teal Roasted.—They should be taken up with the gravy in ; whilst doing, baste them well with butter; and then before being taken up with a little salt, pour a good gravy over them, and serve shalot sauce in a boat. Teal Tioosferf.*—Shred a little lemon- peel, and mix it with a bit of blitter, salt, pepper, and lemon-juice; stuft'your birds with this, cover them first with slices of lemon, then bacon, and lastly, buttered paper sprinkled with salt; tie them up securely, fasten them to the spit, and roast them. When done, let the butler tun out, remove the wrappers, and dish them. Serve them with a sauce made asTEN ( 466 ) TEN follows ; put into a saucepan three ladies- ful of espagnole. a spoonful of consomme, a bit of glaze, the rind of a quarter of a lemon, and a little pepper ; give them a boil up together, and strain it over the teal. TENCH.—They are a fine flavoured fresh water fish ; when good, the eyes are bright, the body stiflf, and the outside free from slime; tench should be dressed as soon as caught. Tench Broiled with Herbs*— Take three or four tench as fresh as possible, plunge them into boiling water, scrape ofif the scales carefully, beginning with •the head ; cleanse them thoroughly, and put them into a marinade of oil, with shred parsley, scallions, and shalots, thyme, bay-leaf, salt and pepper. Wrap them in a double paper, enclosing the marinade, and broil them. Take off the paper before sending to table. Serve them on a piquante, anchovy, or caper sauce. Tench (Fricassee of ).*—Cleanse the tench, scald, and take off the head, tail, and fins : cut the fish into three or four pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with some wliite wine, bay-leaf, pepper, and salt. Dissolve some butter with a clove of garlic in it; toss up a few morels in it, then add a glass of white wine, and the same of fish gravy, small onions, and carp-roes; pour this over the fish, let the whole simmer a short time, and then serve. Tench Fried.*—Take a couple of large tench, scale and cleanse them as for broil- ing. Cut off' the fins, split them down the back, take out the bones; sprinkle them with flour and salt; squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and fry them in butter, and serve them dry. Tench (Matelote of).*—Dissolve two ounces of butter in a stewpan; add to it a dozen small onions, a few muslirooms, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two or three cloves, thyme, bay-leaves, a little flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of white wine ; when these have simmered a quar- ter of an hour, put in the tench cut in pieces; as soon as the fish is done, add capers and a chopped anchovy ; make a liaiso7i with the yolks of three eggs, and serve with fried bread. Tench uu Moytarque.—Open the fish down the back, take out the bone, and some of the meat; mince the latter witli some shalots, mushrooms, and parsley ; mix these with a little panada, an ounce of butter, the yolks of two eggs, salt and pepper} stuH’the tench with this, fry them liglitly, and serve tvith a rngoht made as follows: cut two or three arti- choke bottoms into quarters, and put them Into a little melted butter, wiih mushrooms, shalots, sweet herbs, and a couple of cloves; when these have stewed a short time, add a glass of wine, the same of stock, tench or carp-roes, cray- fish tails, pepper and salt; make the ragoflt thick, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Tench P/e.—Put a layer of butter at the bottom of a dish, and grate in some nutmeg, add pepper, salt, and mace ; then lay in the tench, cover them with butter, and pour in some red wine and a little water; put on the lid; when baked, pour in melted butter, mixed with good rich gravy. Tench au Pontife.—Take a couple of fine tench, scald, and split them down the back; take out the_ bones and meat carefully, so that the skin be not broken ; mince the latter, and mix it with grated bread soaked in wine, scraped bacon, calf’s udder, par.-ley, shalots, and n\ush- rooms (all shred), pepper, salt, and yolks of eggs ; fill the skins with this/acee,and fasten them up to look like the original form. Dip them in oil or melted butter; cover them witli bread crumbs; lay tiiem on thin slices of bacon in a disli,and bake them. When done, and of a nice colour, drain off the fat, and serve with a rich sauce. Tench au Restaurant.*—Prepare your tench as directed (Tench Stuffed); and then soak them in melted butter, with parsley,scallions,salt,and pepper; when thoroughly saturated, cover them with grated bread, place them between thin slices of bread and butter, on a well but- tered dish. Pour over them some carp or other fish gravy, and bake them in a slow oven. Tench Roasted.* — Take ofl'scales, heads, and fins, of the tench, cleanse and dry them well, then put into each a little butter, mixed with sweetherbs ; lay them for about five minutes in melted butter, with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs ; wrap each fish in paper, fasten them to a spit, and roast them. Tench in a Salmis or Hash.—Tho- roughly clean and wash the tench, then cut oft' the head, and split it down the back, and cut both the sides into three or four pieces; have ready on ttie fire some good consomme in a large stewpan, with a carrot, onion, some parsley, nep- percoins. salt, a clove of garlic, a bay- leaf, a bit of lean ham. and half a bottle of port. Let the tench stew in this till well done, and tlien put it into another stewpan. The liquor in which the fish was done, must be stewed down with four large spoonsful of wuce tournee till it is of a moderate thickness, then squeeze inTIM ( 467 T O A the juice of half a lemon, and serve it to table very hot. Tench {to Souse).—Having drawn the tend), clear away the slime, and cut oft' the gills ; put the fish into a kettle with some water, vinegar, bay-leaves, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, pepper, and salt. When done, take oft the loose scales, and lay the tench in a dish carefully; strain the liquor, add a little clarified isinglass to it, boil it a little while, then strain it again, and pour it over the fish. It must not be touched till quite cold. Tench, Stewed with IVine.—Let the tench be well cleansed,and crimped, then set it in a stewpan with some good con- somme, a bottle of Madeira, a little salt, a bay-leaf, and some pepper-corns ; let it stew gently between two tires till \yell done ; then take it out, lay it on a dish, then make the liquor tolerably thick, by stewing it with three spoonsful of sauce tournee ; if not perfectly smooth, squeeze it through a tammy, put in the juice, add a very little cayenne pepper, and pour this sauce over the fish ; garnish with veal forcemeat. Tench Stuffed.—Cut off the tails and fins of your tench, split them down the back, take out the large bone, and fill the spaces with a farce, composed of carp, smelts, or any other fish ; close the open- ing with flour, and fry them in butter, yv'lien about two tliirds done, put them into a stewpan, with a spoonful of good stock, sweet herbs, carp roes, pepper, and salt; finish dressing them over a gentle fire, let the sauce reduce, and serve them. Tehrine, de Nerac.*—Take four fine partridges, truss them with the logs in- wards, and partly diess them. Make a farce of some pieces, and livers of par- tridges, do\ible the quantity of bacon, pound these well, season them with spices and sweet heibs (in powder), salt, pepper, and the trimmings of truftles; have ready two pounds of truflles, pick- ed and washed. Split the partridges down the back, season and stiift’ them with the farce and truffles ; put a layer cdjarce at the bottom of the tureen, put the partridges on it, fill up the intersti- ces with the truffles and farce, cover the whole with rashers of bacon and two bay-leaves, put on the lid of the tureen, fasten it down with paste, and bake it for three hours. THOitNBACK. — Let them hang at least one day before being dressed ; they may be served either boiled or fried, in bread crumbs, being first dipped in eggs. TH KU^I-1ES.—These birdsare dress- ed the same as woodcocks. '1IMIJALE.*—Puta pound of flour on the slab, make a hole in the middle of it, into which pour a little water, three or four spoonsful of oil, a quarter of a pound of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and a pinch of salt; knead these ingredients thoroughly into the flour, until it be- comes a tolerably firm paste ; roll it out to nearly half an inch in thickness, line one large, or several small plain round mould.s, with this paste; let the moulds be well buttered, and the paste conic about halt an inch above the top of the mould; fill your fnnSafe with farce, or ragufit, you think proper, cover it with a layer of paste, pressing the edges to- gether ; bake it, and w'hen done, turn, the timbale on a dish, make a hole, pour in some rich sauce, or gravy, and serve. TOASTS, Butter.*—Spread but- ter over some slices of fried bread ; lay on them sweet herbs, tossed up in melted butter, and serve. Toasts, Genoa.—LsxA a French roll with partly anchovies, and partly ham ; cut the roll into slices, lay on each a thin slice of bacon, dip them into batter, and fry them; drain, and serve with ravigote. Toasts, a la Grenade.*—Cwt some fat and lean bacon into dice, give them a few turns over the fire with parsley, scallions, shalots, pepper, salt, and the yolks of three eggs; stir it frequently, till it forms a kind of forcemeat, spread it over slices of bread, cut of an equal thickness, and fry them. Toasts, d Vltaliennc.* — Cut some slices of bread, about half an inch in thickness, fry them in sweet oil, let it be dry, and crisp ; lay them on a dish, and spread over them any light good farce you may think pn'per ; pour over them an appropriate sauce, and serve them. Toasts, d VItalienne.* — Pound the white meat of a fowl, with some Parme- san cheese, and dry currants, mix with these ingredients the yolks of eggs in due proportions; roll them into fingers with flour, until they cease to adhere to your hand, fry them in boiling lard, and serve with either salt or sugar. 'I’oAST, d la Minime.—Cut some slices of bread, half an inch thick, and divide them into slips, fry them in a little oil, and when of a nice colour, lay them on a dish, with fillets of anchovies; putshn- lots, parsley, garlic, a bay-leaf, thyme, (all shred miihII), whole pepper, and a little vinegar, into the oil, toss them up in it, and then strain it over the toast. Toasts, PounrCed.— Vewni togethfr a piece of pnH'paste, a cold roasted veal- kidney, some of the fat. a few bitter al- monds, orange-flowers, lemon-peel, pre- served citron, a pinch of salt, and a littleTOM TON (46S ) BUgai-; bind these together, with the whites of four eggs, beaten well; spread this prepiinition over slices of bread, cut ns for toast, and bake them. Toasts, Puffed.—Pound together the breast of a roast fowl, some beef marrow, and Parmesan cheese, mix with this paste five eggs, the yolks well beaten, and the wtiites whipped to a froth, spread it over slices of fried bread; egg them, and strew grated bread, and Parmesan cheese over, bake them a little_ while, and serve them with a good relishing sauce. Toasts, Spauis/i,—Roll out some al- mond paste, nearly an inch thick, cut it into pieces, 'about two inches square, press them down with a square piece of wood, a little smaller than the paste, which will leave the edges higher than the rest; bake them, and when cold, pour in any prepared cream you please, as tiigh as the borders; ice, and colour them with a salamander. TOMATAS, Garniture of.* — Take thirty tomatas, all as near of a size as possible, and of a good form ; cut them in halves, press out the juice, seeds, and pieces by the side of the stalk, but do it with great care, lest the skins should be injured ; make -a farce as follows: take a little ham, garlic, parsley, shalots,cham- pignons (shred), tlie yolks of two hard eggs, crumb of bread, an anchovy, but- ter, salt, nutmeg, and allspice ; give all these a boil, and then pound them well, adding at times a little oil ; strain it through A quenelle sieve ; fill the tomatas with tins farce, place tliem on a baking tin, cover them with grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, moisten them with a little oil, and bake them in a hot oven. Serve the tomatas as a garnish to a rump of beef, or any other joint you may thii.k proper. I0.MATA, Ketchup.* — Take tomatas when fully ripe, bake them in a jar till tender, strain them, and rub them through a sieve. To every pound of juice, add a pint of chili vinegar, an ounce ol shalots, half an ounce of garlic, both sliced, a quarter of an ounce of salt, and a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, finely powdered; boil the whole till every ingredient is soft, rub it again through the sieve. • To every pound add the juice of three lemons; boil it again to the consistence of cream; when cold, bottle it, put a small quantity of sweet oil on each, tie bladders over, and keep it in a dry place. Tomatas, Preserved,*—Gather some veiyripe tomatas; having washed and drained them, cut them into pieces, whirh put into a well iinrcd copper saucepan, set it on the fire, and when the tomatas are quite dissolved, and re- duced one-third in quantity, press it through a coarse sieve, but sufficiently so to retain the seeds ; replace the pulp on the fire, let it boil till reduced to one- third of the original quantity; then put it into a pan, and when cold bottle it; close them hermetically, wrap each bot- tle in cloth, and put them into a large saucepan filled with water; cover tlie saucepan, and put a wet cloth over the lid to prevent tlie least evaporation ; set the saucepan on the fire to boil for an hour and a half or two hours. After that time take it from the fire, draw ofl'the water ; in half an hour remove the cloth, and in another hour take out tlie bottles; the next day resin the corks. Tomata Sauce Vranquise.*—Cut ten or a dozen tomatas intoquarters, and put them into a saucepan, with four onions sliced, a little parsley, thyme, one clove, and a quarter of a pound of butter; set the saucepan on tlie fire, stirring occa- sionally for three quarters of an hour; strain the sauce through a horse-hair sieve, and serve with the directed arti- cles. Tomata, Sauce, d 1’Italienne.*—TAke five or six onions, slice, and put them into a saucepan, with a little thyme, bay-leaf, twelve or fifteen tomatas, a bit of butter. salt,halfadozen allspice, alittle India saf- fron, and a glass of stock; set them on the fire, taking care to stir it frequently, as it is apt to stick ; when you perceive the sauce is tolerably thick, strain it like a pvrSe TONGUE.—A tongue which has net been dried will require very little soak- ing, but if dried, it should be soaked in water for three or four hours; then put it into cold water, and let it boil gently till tender. Tongues, Pickle for.*—Haifa pound of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of bay salt, the same of moist sugar, three pounds of common salt, and two gallons of soft water; boil the whole together, and skim it well. When cold, pour it over the tongue. This pickle will not require boilingnc-ain for six weeks. Tongue, to Pickle.* — Take a fine neat’s tongue, and put it into the follow- ing pickle: lour gallons of w.ater, four pounds of common salt, the same of bay- salt, a quarter of a pound of s.altpetre, two ounces of saltpninclla, one ounce of allum, and a pound of coarse sugar; iioil these together, skimming it well. Lay in the tongue, let it remain ten days, tnrniiig it two or three times in that period. Drv the tongue by a wood fire. Tongue, Potted.—Do it as for pick- ling; when it has laid its proper time,T O U ( 4G9 ) T O U 2 S cut ofl'the root, boil it until it will peel ; then sen-on it with suit, pepper, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, all beat tine; rub the seasoning well in while it is hot, put it into a pan, pour melted butter over it, and send it to the oven; an hour is suffi- cient to bake it;_when done, let it stand to cool, rub a little more spice over it, and lay it in the pot it is to be kept in ; when the butter it was baked in, is cold, take it from the gravy, clarify, and pour it over the tongue ; if there is nat sufficient to coverit, more must be added ; tliebut- termust be an inch highei’ than the tongue. Tongue, Stewed.—Let it simmer for two hours in just sufficient quantity of water to cover it: then peel it, and put it into the liquor again, with some pep- per, salt, mace, claves, and whole pepper, tied in a bit of muslin; a few capers, turnips, cut in very smalt pieces, and carrots, sliced ; half a pint of beef gravy, a little wliite wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; let it stew very gently until ten- der, then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken it with a piece of but- ter, rolled in flour. Tongue, and Udder Parboil the tongue and udder, stick in them ten I or twelve cloves, roast tliem, and baste with red wine, and Iroth them nicely with a bit of butter. Serve with gravy and sweet sauce. The udder eats well boiled with the tongue, Tongue, and Udder, Stuffed with ' Forcemeat, and Roasted. — Boil the tongue and udder until tender, peel the tongue, stick it with a few cloves, raise the. udder, wash the inside with the yolk of egg, mi and fill it I and roast wine and butter. Serve with good gravy, I and currant jelly. (For other methods I of dressing tongue, see neat’s tongue.) TOURTE, il I’Anglaise.*—Take two I ounces of stoned raisins, one ounce of ■ currants, some candied cedrais, cut into ' dice, mix'these with some frangipane, a little beef marrow, dissolved, and a small quantity of Madeira wine, and proceed as directed. (See Tourte of Frangipane.) Tourte, d’Entree.*-—Mhke a paste as ( for timbales; roll out a part of it a qunr- I ter of an incfi thick, and cut it info two circular pieces, one of eigiit inches in ! diameter, and tlic otlier nine indies and a half. Take thirty-six or forty balls, about the size of a pigeon’s egg, of godi- veaii, half of whicli lay on the smaller piece of the paste, leaving an inch all round ; on tliese place some scollops of sweetbreads, dressed in sweet herb.s, 1 champignons, and nrticlioke bottoms cut jn pieces; then put the remainder of the ike a good forcemeat of veal, ; tie the ends close together, tliem ; liaste them with red balls, four cray-fish, champignons, and artichoke bottoms. Place all these arti- cles in tlie form of a dome, and put the larger piece of paste over the whole, turn the edge of the lower piece over tlie. other, and press them together ; take a band of puff paste, long enougli to go round the bottom of the tourte, an inch and a quarter deep, and the same thick- ness as tlie aliove-mentioned layers; fix this round the tourte, and pincii or mark it in proper form ; take the cuttings of the tourte paste, roll it into small bands, all the same length and size, and place them on the top of the dome, so as to make a kind of false top in (he form of a rosette ; dorez this, put a piece of strong paper, buttered, round the band of puff paste, and place the. tourte in a brisk oven, for an hour and a half. It should be looked at whilst b iking, as it_ hap- pens sometimes that too much air is en- enclosed in the tourte, which, by the heat of the oven, expands, and thereby spoils its appearance : in this case, when the crust begins to harden, make a h ilc at the top, with the head of a pin, the air can thus escape, and the shape of the tourte be preserved. When done, cut neatly a small piece out of the top, pour in some espagnole, put the piece on again, and serve, Tourtb, d’Entree, au Chasseur.*— Take a small partridge, and a small snipe, cut each in half, two quails, six larks, the loins and legs of a wild rabbit, and four truffles, each cut into five slices ; put all these into a pan, with some but- ter and sweet herbs ; season them, and set them on the lire : when all the above are warmed througu, take oil' the pan, and leave them to cool. In tlie mean- time, prepare your tourte, as directed, and lay in the game in the form of a dome, filling up the spaces with the herbs, in which the articles were dressed. Cover it in the usual way, and bake it in a brisk oven for an hour and a half. When done, pour in some espagnole, mixed with 9.fumet of game, and truffles. Tourte, en Puits.—Scoop out the in- sides of half a dozen large, onions, throw them into boiling water, a minute, then drain, and fill the cavities with some of the following/«rce ; mince small some scalded sweetbreads, mushrooms, truffles, shalots, parsley, and bacon; mix tliese with tlie yolks of two eggs, pepper, and s.alt. Put a layer of this also over the. bottom of a deep dish, lined with puff- paste, place the onions on it, add a litile butter, cover them vvith a pull paste, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven. When done, pour in some licit sauce, and serve it hot.470 ) T R 0 TRI TREACLE, Pudding.*—Mix together a pound of stoned raisins, three quarters of a pound of shred suet, a pound of flour, a pint of milk, a table-spoonful of treacle, grated ginger, and pounded spice: when well stirred up, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it four hours. TRIFLE.*—Cover the bottom of the dish with Naples biscuit.s, and maca- roons, broke in halves, wet with brandy and white wine, poured over them; cover tlicm with patches of raspberry ,iam ; fill the dish with a good custard, then whip up a syllabub, drain the frotli on a sieve; put it on tiie custard, and strew comfits over all. Trifle. — Sweeten three pints of cream ; add to it half a pint of mountain wine, grate in the rind of a lemon, squeeze in the .juice, and grate in half a nutmeg; whisk this up, lay the froth on a large sieve, and the sieve over a disli tliat has ratafia cakes, macaroons, sweet almonds, blanched and pounded, citron, and candied orange-peel, cut into small pieces, some cprrant jelly, and rasp- berry jam in it, that the liquor may run npon them; when they are soaked, lay them in the dish you intend to serve in, put on the froth as high as possible, well drained ; strew over nonpareils, and stick on little slices of citron, orange, or lemon-peel. Trifle.—Lay some macaroons and ra- tafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and soak them well with raisin wine, when soaked, pour on them a very rich cold custard. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of rasp- berry jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the preceding day, of rich cream, tlic whites of two eggs, well beaten, sugar, lemon-peel, and rai- sin wine, well beat with a whisk. It is best to make it the day before it is want- ed, being more solid and better tasted. Trifle.*—Put half a pound of maca- roons into a dish, pour over them some white wine, and a pint of custard over that, make a whip, and put on it; garnish according to your fancy. TRIPE, Breaded.* — Cut your tripe into small square pieces, and give them a few turns in some butter, with par.sley, salt, and pepper ; roll each bit in grated bread, and broil them slowly. \Vhen done, serve them with slices of lemon. Tripe (KilJcenni/), Jris/i Dish.*—Cat a piece of double tripe into square pieces, peel, and wash ten large onions, cut each in tw.>, and boil them in a little water till tender, then put in the tripe; when it has boiled ten minute.'', pour oil all the liquor, shake a little flour into it, and Htld some butter, mustard, and salt; shake the whole over the fire, till the butter is melted; then .dish, and serve as hot as possible; garnish with lemon sliced, or b.-irberries. Tripe, Stewed.*—Cut a pound of tripe into pieces, and put it into a small sauce- pan, ivith half a pint of milk, three oun- ces of rice, a little allspice, and pepper, pounded, and a little celery-seed tied in a bitofmuslin ; let the whol&stew gently for four hours, and serve. (For other methods of dressing tripe, see beef. TROUT.—This fish is held in great es- timation,it is afresh waterfish,and when good, of a flesh colour, and the spots upon it are very bright; the female is cons'dered the best, and is known by the head being smaller, and the body being deeper than that of the male. It is most in season during the month of June. Trout, u VAnglaise.*—Boil the fish in a court-bouillon., take oft' the fillets, jay them on a dish, and keep them hot in the bain-marie. Roll some butter in flour, dissolve it in either veal or fish gravy, according as you wish to serve it, in gras or maigre ; add a slice or two of lemon, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; stir it well over the lire, squeeze in a little lemon-juice, and pour the sauce, whilst boiling, over the fillets. Trout Boiled.-^^oW them with some vinegar in the water, some salt, and a bit of horse-radish ; serve with white sauce, anchovy sauce, or plain butter. Trout Collared.— They are done in the same manner as eels are collared. Trout Fried.— After they are well scaled, gutted, and washed, dry them, rub them with yolk of egg, flour or s'rew fine crumbs of bread over, and fry them of a fine colour ; serve with crisped par- sley, and plain butter, or anchovy sauce. Trout d la Genoise.*—Lay ,o trout in a fish-kettle, and put on it two carrots; and four onions, all sliced, parsley, scal- lions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, t«o cloves, salt, pepper, and red wine ; set it on the fire, and boil it three quarters of an hour; strain the liquor, and put it into another saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter, and tliree dessert- spoonsful of flour; set it on the fire, and stir till it is till well united; reduce it over a large fire, and when it will adhere to the spoon, serve it over the trout, previously drained. Trout Marinaded.— Fry some trout in a sufficient quantity of oil to_ coyer them, put them in when the oil is Iwil- ing ; as aeon as they are crisp t-ike them out, and lay them to drain till they are cold ; then make a marinade of equ.al quantities of white wine and vinegar, with some salt, whole pepper, nutmeg.( 4 71 ) T R U T R 0 doves, mace, sliced ginger, savory, sweet inarj.irum, tliyme, roseinaiy, a bay-leaf, and two onions ; let all these boil together for a quarter of an hour; put tlie fish into a pan, pour the marinade to them hot, put in as much oil as vinegar and white wine, which must be according to the quantity of fisli, as tliere must be a sufficient quantity of liquor to cover them ; they will then keep for -a month. Serve with oil ai.d vinegar. Tkout ft la Mafiniire,*—Seale, and cleanse yonr fish as usual ; put inside each a little butter mixed with sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; put them into a stewpan, with as much white wine as will rise about an inch above them, add salt, pepper, nutmeg, onions, and crou- tons; set the whole on a fierce fire; if the wine does not citch, set it alight with a piece of lighted paper. When done, put into the sauce a bit of butter; this, if well stirred in, will make the liquor sraoolli and rich ; pour it over the fish and serve. Thout Pie.—Nicely lard a couple of trout with eels ; raise a crust, and put a layer of fresh butter at the bottom ; make a forcemeat of trout, mushrooms, truffles, morels, and fresh butter; season with salt, pepper, and spice, and bind it with the yolks of two raw eggs; stuff the trout with this forcemeat,-then lay them in the pie upon the butter, and cover them with butter ; put on the lid, and send it to the oven; when done, pour in some good fish gravy. Trout d la Saint Florcntin*— Cut some fillets of trout the length and thickness of a finger; put these pieces into a pan, with the juice of two lemons, four onions sliced, parsley, two bay- leaves, a little thyme, salt, and pepper ; move them about frequently. VVhen they have lain in it sufficiently long, drain them thoroughly; flour, and fry them in a very hot pan ; serve them with sauce piquanie. Trout Well wash a couple of middling sized trout; then take three pints of wliite wine vinegar, a quart of water, an onion stuck with cloves, a little lemon-peel, a bunch of sweet herbs, some pepper, salt, mace, and a grated nutmeg; boil all these together in a stewpan suffi- ciently inrge to hold the trout; when it has boiled some time, put in the fish ; as soon as they are done, lay them in a dtsh till they are cold; pour oQ’ the liquor, take out the onion,and herbs, and let it stand till cold ; then talce olT all the far, and pour the liquor over the fish ; they will be ready for use the next day; if sent to table hot, serve with shrimp or lobster sauce, made with the pickle, and garnish the dish with fried smelts. They are very good served cold. Trout Stewed.— Take a small one, stuff it with grated bread, a bit of butter, parsley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pep- per, salt, nutmeg, savory herbs, bind with yolk of egg; put it into a stewpan, nith a quart of good boiled gravy, some Madeira wine, an onion, a little wliole pepper, a few cloves, and a piece ol lemon- peel; let all stew gently till done, then thicken with a little flour mixed in some cream, a little ketchup; boil it up; squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Trout tvit/i Truffles.* -^When scaled and cleansed, lard them with truffles, and fill each witli some fine truffle /u7‘ce; then braise them in wine, with truffles, white onions, artichoke bottoms, salt anil pepper. Serve them with a ragoflt of sliced truffles. Trout d la Vinitienne.*—Slit tlie fi.--h along the back, and put in a little butter and sweet herbs ; soak them for half an hour in olive oil, then cc.ver them with bread crumbs and sweet herbs ; boil them over a slow fire; serve with a sauce, in which put two slices of orange. TRUFFLES.* — The truffle, like the mushroom, is a species of fungus com- mon in France and Italy; it generally grows about eight or ten inches below the surface of the ground ; ns it imparls a most delicious flavour, it is much used in cookery. Being dug out of the earth, it requires a great deal of washing and brushing, before it can be applied to culinary purposes; when washed, the water should be warm, and changed Ire- quently._ It loses much of its flavour when dried. T ruffles ft la Cendi-e.*—Take a dozen truffles dressed with Champagne, have as many small slices of bacon as you have truffles; cut a quantity of square pieces of paper, on some of these put a bit of bacon, and a truffle seasoned with pep- per. salt, and pounded spice ; wrap them in the bacon first, and then in the paper. When all are done,dipeach paperintocold water, and then put them into hot ashes, like chesnuts. In an hour’s time they will be sufficiently done. Take off the two outer coverings, and serve. Truffles ivith Champagne.*—Take ten or twelve well cleaned truffles; put them into a stewpan on rashers of bacon, add a bay-leaf, a seasoned bouquet, grated bacon, some stock, a slice or two of ham, and a bottle ol Champagne ; co- ver them with a piece of buttered payer, put on the lid, and set the stewpan on liot ashes; put fire on the top, and let 2 S 2TR U ( 472 ) 1’ R U them stew for an liour. When done, dr.ain them on a clean doll), and serve on a folded napkin. TiiurFLns d I’llalienne.*—Cut about a handful of truffles eitlier into slices or dice; put them into a stevvpan with a little butter ; sweat them over a slow fire; then moisten with half a glass of Champagne, aitd two spoonsful of reduced espagnole ; add some shred parsley, atul shalots, salt, and pepper; give tlie whole a boil, take off all the fat, put in a few drops of oil, and serve. TauFFLES (to keep).*—Make a choice of the blackest truffles; let tliem be fresh gatliered ; when thoroughly washed and brushed, peel them carefully with a sharp knife, reject all which are not perfectly sound ; put them into bottles as clo.se as they will lay; cork them tight, and boil them for an hour in the hain-marie. TnuFFLES d la Minute.* — Take as many well washed truffles as you may requii'e; slice them into a dish that will bear the fire ; add to them, shred parsley, scallions, and shalots, salt, pepper, and a little oil; cover your dish, and set it on the fire.' When done, serve with a little lemon-juice. Truffle Omelet,*—Fry your omelet as usual, and when nearly done, with a spoon take out the thick part of the mid- dle, and put in its place some truffles, lightly fried in a little eipagnole; as soon as the omelet is finished, lay it on a dish ; mince two truffles very small, give them a few turns over the fire in a little but- ter, add four ladiesful of espagnole, and pour this sauce over the omelet. Truffles d la Piedmontaise.*—Mince your truffles as small as possible, pour some oil on a silver dish, oil which put a layer of the truffles, seasoned with salt and pepper, tlien a layer of grated Par- mesan clieei-e.and so on alternately, until you have as much in your dish as you think proper, and set it in tiie oven for a quarter of an hour, which will be suffi- cient to cock them. Truffles d la Provenoale.*—Cut some truffles into slices, put them into a sauce- fi.tn with oil, parsley, two cloves of gar- ic, salt and popper. Set them on hot ashes for an hour. In the mean time dissolve a good bit of butter, rolled in flour, in some good stock ; then add half a glass of white wine, and let it huil lor lialf an hour, take off all the fat; and when tlie truffles are done, and drained, serve with the sauce poured over them. Truffles (Ragoilt of). — Peel, and slice a dozen truffles, put them into a saucepan, with a little bulter, parsley, Ecalliona, half a clove of gailic, anti two cloves; let them simmer a minute or two, add a spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, and another of stock; let it stew half an hour ; clear off the fat, and serve it seasoned with salt and pepper. Truffles (Hagoiit of).*—Choose your truffles as round as you can, wash them in several waters, until the last water is quite clear; pick and cut them into slices or dice; give them a few turns in a little Imtter, with grated nutmeg, pars- ley, scallions, hall a clove of garlic, and two cloves; boil them with some con- somme and espagnole; take oft’the fat, reduce and finish the ragoflt with a glass of Champagne and a little butter. 'Pruffle Sauce.*—Mince two or three truffles very small, and toss them up lightly, in either oil or butter, according to your taste ; then put to them four or five ladiesful of veloute, and a spoonful of consomme ; let it boil fur about a quarter of an hour over a gentle fire, skim off all the fat; keep your sauce hot in the hain- marie. Truffle Sauce.—Take eight truffles, clean, and cut them round, and then cut them in thin slices into a stewpan, set them to stew very gently with a small bit of butter; when well stewed, arid two table-spoonsful of consomme, and let it .simmer till nearly dry ; then put in some bechamelle sauce, the quantity must be regulated according to what you want it for; make it very hut, squeeze in a little lemon-juice; it is then ready. If you wish the sauce to be brown, put in espag- nole instead of bechamelle sauce. Trufflese« Surprise.*—Take a dozen large truffles, of as good a shape, and as near of a size, as possible; dress them in someChampagnewine,drain, and letthem ccol; then place them on the flattest side, and witii a lo-it-cutter of an inch diame- ter, mark out the centre to within a fourth of their thickness; cut the top of these out with the point of a knife, and clear away the remainder; fill up the space thus left with a puree at fowl nr ganie, a salpicon. or any ragofit. or other f.uree, mixed with bechamelle, you may think proper; when all are filled, cover the aperture with the piece taken out, and serve your truffles either in a cremstade, or on a foldeil napkin. Truffles {Toiirte of).* — Take two pounds of fine truffles, wash and pick them ; put them into a stewpan. with .six thin slices of ham, a very little car- rot, a sliced onion, a bny-b’af, sweet herbs in powder, salt, and Champagne ; lay rashers of bacon over the whole, and stew them to neai ly n jelly. 'V hen cold, put the truffles into a crust with all the seasoning; bake the iourte, and serve as usual.473 ) TUR TUR Truffles, Tourteof.—Boil a dozen peeled truffles in a pint of cream, with a quarter of a pound of su^ar; wlien the cream is reduced to half, take out the truffles, pound them to a_ paste, which stir into the cream ; line a dish with almond paste, pour in the above, cover the tourle, bake, and ice it. TRUSSING (Directions for). — See the different articles. TUNNY. — This salt-n'ater fish is but little known in_ England. When fresh, it is stewed with butter, parsley and scallions, shred; it is then breaded and browned with a salamander. It may also be boiled like fresh salmon. The tunny, however, is most commonly pickled, and served cold in a salad. TURBOT. — Turbot, when good, should be thick and full, and the belly of a yellowish white or cream colour. Turbot Baked.*—Wash your fish jn several waters, dry it well, and soak it in melted butter, with sweet herbs, parsley, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; in half an hour put the whole into a bakiiigdish, envelop itcompletely in breadcrumbs, and bake it. Turbot, Breaded.*—Prepare a small turbot as usual, slit it across the back, and soak it for an hour in melted butter, or lemon-juice, with parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Cover the fish with bread-crumbs, and broil it; when done, squeeze lemon, or Seville orange-juice over it, and serve. Turbot, Croquettes of*—Are made like those of cod. Turbot, (at, Court-Bouillott.*—Fill a large saucepan with water, and put into it a pound of salt, twenty bay-leaves, a handful of thyme, the same of parsley, twenty scallions, and half the number of large onions sliced ; set it on the fire; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and then strain it. As soon as it is quite clear, rub the white side of a large turbot, either with lemon-juice or milk, put it into a fish-kettle, and pour the centrt- bouillon over it; set it on the fire to sim- mer for an hour, or more, according to its size. When done, take it out care- fully, let it drain, and serve it on a folded napkin; garnish with parsley. Turbot, d la Creme.* — Pai into a saucepan a quarter of a pound of butter, a dessert spoonful of flour, salt, pepper, and a glass of good milk, or more if neces- sary ; set it on the fire, and keep stirring till sufficiently smooth, and the right consistence; take a ready-dressed tur- bot, cut it into pieces, and put them into another saucepan, pour the sauce over them, make the whole quite hot, and then serve. Turbot, Fillets o/.*—Cut the fillets from a turbot, dressed \n a court bouillon. Dissolve some butter with an anchovy, shred parsley, and sweet herbs, salt, nutmeg, and pepper; add a glass of cream, put in the fillets, stir them gently over the fire till the sauce is thick and smooth; then serve. Turbot, GVace.*—Take off the skin, tail, and fins of a turbot, and lard it with bacon ; put it into a stewpan, with a pint or more of wine, two slices of lemon, five or six onions, sliced, pepper, and salt; set it on a moderate fire, and when about two-thirds done, take it off", and leave the fish to cool. In the mean- time, boil a knuckle of veal in some stock, with half a glass of white wine; reduce it to a jelly; let it take a fine clear colour, and whilst hot, pour it on a dish over the turbot, spread it equally over the whole, and serve. Turbot, au Gratin.* — Take some pieces of ready-dressed turbot, remove the skin and bones, and put the pieces into a saucepan, with some bechamelle muigre.1 set it on the fire, make it quite hot, without letting it boil; spread it all over a dish, make it quite smooth with the blade of a knife, cover it with bread- crumbs, and grated Parmesan cheese; pour some melted butter on it, garnish your dish with fried bread, put it in the oven to colour, and serve. Turbot, GreYfo/.*—Split the fish down the back, and soak it for some time, with melted butter, parsley, sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. Bread the turbot well, broil, and serve it with lemon, or Seville orange juice. ^ Turbot, a la Hollandaise.—fPat your turbot into a fish-kettle, with equal quantities of milk and water, a bit of butter, salt, lemon squeezed in, and rubbed over the turbot, put paper over it, and let it simmer gently till done ; then take it up, drain it from the liquor, and serve it on a dish without a fish- plate, and pour a sauced la Hollecndaise, all over. Turbot, wit/i Macaroni in a Gratin. —Take the remains of a turbot which has been dressed the preceding day, and pick it from the bone, put it into liot water, to make it separate into flakes, and then put it into some very good cream sauce, with a little pipe macaroni, well boiled ; be particular that there is no water either in the flakes of turbot, or the macaroni, as it would spoil the sauce ; when made very h it in the sauce, put it on a dish, strew bread-crumbs over it, sprinkle some clarified butter over with a spoon, then strew bread- crumbs again ; brown it with the sala- mander, and serve. 2S3TUR TU a ( 474 ) • TuiinoT, en ALUelute Normande.* — Takft a small lurbot, and having pre- pared it as usual, slit it down tlie back, separate the flesh from the bones, be- tween which, put a good maiire d’hdtcl; take a silver or other dish that will bear, the fire, put into it six large onions, cut into dice, season them with salt, pepper, nutmeg, thyme, bay-leaf, and parsley, all dry and rubbed into powder; then lay the turbot on it, strew salt over, put lemon-juice, rnelted butter, and add half a bottle of white wine; place your dish on a moderately heated stove, covered with a portable oven ; baste it frequently. Cut some bread into pieces, the size of a crown piece, and when the turbot is done, place them round the dish, and serve. Turbot, Mayomiaiseof.*—The pieces are soaked in a mayonnaise, and served as usual. (See Turkey d la mayonnaise.) Turbot, « la Ste. Menehould.*—Take the remains of a i eady-dressed turbot, cut it into pieces, lay them on a dish, with hechamelle, make the. top quite smooth, and cover it with grated bread and Parmesan cheese ; moisten it with some melted butter; make it hot in the oven, and colour the top with a salaman- der. Turbot, viith Parmesan.—Soak a cou- ple of small turbot in melted butler, with shred parsley, shalots, pepper, and salt; when they have lain about an hour, pour the butter, &c. on a dish, with a little cullis, grated bread, and Parmesan cheese, in equal quantities; place the fish on it, cover them in the same man- ner, and bake. When done, clean the dish, and serve dry. Turbot, Stuffed and Baked.*—Your turbot being properly cleansed, turn over the skin of the under side, without cutting it ofl'; make a farce, with some butter, parsley, scallions, morels, sweet herbs, all shred, and united together, with yolks of eggs, and seasoned with pepper and salt; spread this all over the under part of the fish, cover it with the skin, and sew it up. Dissolve some butter in a saucepan; add to it when melted, the yolk of an egg, sweet herbs shred, salt, and pepper ; rub the fish all over with this, then bread, and bake it. Turbot, with fVhite Sauce.— Put a sliced onion, some thyme, basil, and sweet herbs into astewpan, place a small turbot on these, strew similar herbs, salt, pepper, and a leek, cut in pieces over it; cover the fish with equal quantities of vinegar, and white wine; let it boil over a moderate fire until sufliciently done; in the meantime, melt a pound of butter. add to It a couple of boned anchovies, two spoonsful of capers, shred stn.ill, two or three leeks, salt, pepper, nutmeg, a little vinegar, water, and a sprinkling of flour r make all these quite hot, stirring constantly till done; then disli the tur- bot, pour the sauce over it, and serve. TUIIEEN d la Flamande.—Take four sheep’s-tails, half a pound of pickled pork, six turkey pinions, and a large savoy, cut in quarters, tie all theiie up separately; scald the two latter, and then put all into a large saucepan, with parsley, sweet herbs, scallions, cloves, pepper, and salt; put in sufficient stock to cover it: close the saucepan, and let it boil till all the articles are done; then drain the meat, put it into a tureen, and pour the sauce over. Tureen Melangee.* — Braise three pigeons, three sheep’s-tails, a dozen larks, some slices of streaked bacon, fillets of poultry, a little veal, and some small sausages pricked in several places; do them in a sufficient quantity of slock, and let tliem simmer for four or five hours. Take off all the fat; pour the whole into a large tureen, and serve. Tureen d la Neuvaiiie.—Take any kind of meat, game, or poultry, accord- ing to your pleasure, mince it small, and mix it with chopped onions, shred suet, salt, spices, and half a glass of tirandy ; put this mixture into a deep dish that will bear the fire; cover it close, and fasten it down with a paste; set it on a moderate fire to stew slowly. In about five lioiirs’ time, remove the paste, clear away the fat, and serve it either hotorcold. Tureen Provengale. * — Put into a glazed pan half a pound of rice, on which lay two or three I’ashers of bacon, a large fowl, and two pigeons; cover these with lentils, and pour in two quarts of warm water; put your pan into a inodcr.ate oven for three hours ; at the end of that time, pour the whole into a soup tureen, and serve very hot. Tureen Iloyale.*—Take some fillets of kid, and lamb, a fat pheasant, two partridges, a leveret, and two i)igeons ; lard all these with streaked bacon, and place them in a large braksing-pan on slices of b.TCon, and veal, with salt, and spices; pour over them a pint of good stock ; close the pan, lute the edges with asie, and set it on a moderate fire for six ours. In the mean time, take some veal sweetbreads, truffles boiled in white wine, morels, and any other article you please; nut them into some good stock, and let tliem simmer some time. VVhen your braise is quite done, pour it into a tureen, placing the largest pieces atT U R ( 475 ) T U R the bottom ; place tlie sweetbreads, &o. over all the rest, and serve. TURKIES.—A yoimg turkey-cock has smooth black legs, with a short spur, the eyes full and bright, and the feet soft and pliable. An old hen turkey’s legs are rough and red, the vent hard : if with egg, the vent will be soft and open ; the hen turkey is the best for boiling. Turkies are trussed according to the same manner as directed for fowls, and putsome goodstuflingfthesameasfor fillet of veal), in the part from which the crop was taken,vvhetherroasted or boiled. Turksv, Ateletsof.*—Take the breast of a cold roasted turkey, cut it into thin slices about an inch square, cut some truffles, and boilet^streaked bacon in the same manner, split some large champig- nons also, and put them with the above into an atelet sauce; when they have thoroughly imbibed it, put them alter- nately on half a dozen silver skewers, dip them in beaten eggs, cover them with bread-crumbs, egg, and bread them a second time, and then fry them. Turkey, Boiled.—Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-peel, a few oysters, or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg; put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready some oyster sauce made rich with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, and serve over the luikey, or you may serve over it a liver and lemon-sauce. Turkey, Boiled au Bourgeois.—Truss the turkey the same as for boiling ; put some water into a saucepan, set it on the lire, put in some salt, a large handful of chopped parsley, and some peppercorns | as soon as the water boils, put in the turkey, and let it boil very gently till sufficiently done, but not too much so ; in the meanwhile set on a saucepan with a bit of butler rolled in flour, a little water, some parsley, cut very small, a thin slice of garlic, two anchovies, a little lemon- peel, cut into dice, a little lemon-juice, and somesalt; let these all stew together, then thicken it, and serve it over the. turkey. Turkey, Blanquette of.* — Cut the white meat from a cold roasted turkey, mince it small, and put it into a stewpan; cut as many champignons as you think proper, in pieces the size of a farthing, put them into water and lemon-juice to keep them white; put a little butter into a stewpan with the juice of half a lemon, add the champignons, set them on the fire, and when the butter is melted, add six ladicsful of consomme, and the same of veloute; reduce this to half, skim and take off all the fatj then pour the sauce pn the mince, set it on the fire to make it quite hot without boiling, put in a liaison of an egg or two, and an ounce of butter,and serve it. Turkey, Capilotade, Croquettes, and (fuenelles —Are made in the same man- ner as those of fowls. Turkey, Cold {how to serve).— Lay your turkey in a dish, have some nice savory jelly, which cut into pieces and garnish the dish all round with it. Turkey Daube.*—Take an old turkey, truss it in the usual way; roll some large lardons in a mixture of salt,, pepper, four spices, and sweet herbs, and then lard the turkey with them; lay slices of bacon in a braising-pan, put the turkey on them, with two small knuckles of veal, the feet of the bird, four carrots, six onions, three cloves, two bay-leaves, thyme, a bunch of parsley, and young onions ; cover the whole with bacon and a piece of buttered paper ; dilute it with four ladiesful of stock (or more if the turkey be very large), put in a little salt, and set the pan on the fire to boil slowly for three hours and .a half; then take it off, but do not take the bird out for at least half an hour. Strain oft'the liquor, and then reduce it to a fourth, or more if very thin; break an egg into another saucepan, beat it up well, -and then pour the liquor on it, whisk them well toge- ther, and if* it wants flavour, add a few sweet herbs, parsley-leaves, and a young onion or two; put it on the fire, stirring it violently until ready to boil; as soon as it has boiled up once or twice; set it by the side of a stove, put fire on the top of the saucepan, and let it simmer half an hour; then strain it carefully through a fine cloth, and let it cool to serve it with the turkey. Turkey, Fotmr.*—Take a fine plump turkey, bone it carefully through the back without injuring the skin. I'ake two slices of very white tender veal, lard these slices quite through with large lardons, and put them within the turkey; lard also the insi-de of the bird, but do not pierce the skin ; close the opening, and give the bird an oval form, the pinion bones, and drumsticksought to be left on ; tie up the turkey, spit and roast it gently, basting with its own gravy. Turkey, Galantine 0/.*—Take a fine fat turkey, bone it entirely, beginning with the back, and taking great care not to injure the breast, remove all the si- news from tlie legs; cut away the meat from the thickest parts, so as to make it all nearly the same level; take some of this meat, cold chicken, or meat of any kind you please ; if you have two pounds( 476 T U R TUR of lean, take two pounds of fat bacon, mince them small, and add salt, pepper, spices, and sweet herbs; lard your turkey witli moderate-sized lardons well season- ed. Spreadall oyer the bird alayerof the farce an inch thick, on which place truf- fles, tongue d I’ecarlate, bacon, turkey, fowl, and fat liver?, alt cut into pieces about half an inch thick, and an inch and a half long; cover these with ano- ther layer of farce, and continue this operation alternately till all the farce is used; then roll up the turkey, nearly in its proper form, but so that none of the farce may escape; sew it up, cover it with slices of bacon, wrap it in a coarse cloth with four or five bay-leaves, tie it closely; place it in a braising-pan on slices ot bacon ; add two knuckles of veal, six carrots, six onions, a large bunch of parsley and scallions, the bones of the turkey, four bay-leaves, a little thyme, three cloves, and three ladiesful or more of stock ; cover your braising-pan close, and set it on the fire, and let it simmer for three hours. When done, take it from the fire, but leave the turkey in for iialf an hour ; on taking it from the pan, press it gently to get out all the gravy; when quite cold, unwrap the bird ; strain the gravy through a lawn sieve, beat up an egg in it, set it on the fire, stirring till it boils, then put it by the side of the stove, with fire on the saucepan-lid; in about half an hour, strain it again, and leave it to cool. Turkey Giblets a la Boxirgeoise.—The pinions, neck, feet, liver, and gizzard, compose the giblets; when scalded, put them into a stewpan, with a little hotter, parsley, scallions, garlic, thyme, bay- leaf, basil, mushrooms, and a clove or two; moisten these with stock ; season with pepper and salt; make it all quite hot, thicken with a little flour; when nearly done, add a few turnips slightly fried m a little hutter. Turkey Giblets (Fricassee of).—Scald thoroughly the giblets from as many turkies as will make a handsome dish, then stew them well in two ounces of butter, as directed for them d la bour- geoise. AVhen done, tike out the herbs, make a liaison with the yolks of three eggs, a little cream, and some vinegar, and serve, Turkey in its own Gravij.—Takeout the breast-bone of a turkey, and stulT it with a sweetbread scalded, mushroom sut into small pieces, grated bacon, pepper and salt; put the turkey, covered with slices of bacon, into a braising-pan just large enough to hold it, with a very little ctock, a quarter of pint of white wine, a bunch ot sweet herbs, thyme, bay-leaf. a few cloves, and a little nutmeg; let it braise slowly, and turn it two or three times : when done, skim the saur.e, strain it, add a chopped shalot, reduce the sauce, and serve it poured over the turkey. Turkey Hashed.— Cut up the remains of a roasted turkey, put it into a stewpan, with a glass of white wine,chopped pars- lay shalots, mushrooms, truffles, salt and pepper, two spoonsful of cullis, and a little stock ; boil half an hour, and re- duce to a thick sauce ; when ready, add a pound of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon; skim oft' all the fat from the sauce, and serve all together. Turkey Hashed.—Stir a piece of but- ter rolled in flour into some cream, and a little veal gravy, till it boils up; mince some cold roasted or boiled turkey, but not too small; put it into the sauce, add grated lemon-peel, white pepper, pound- ed mace, a little mushroom ketchup or mushroom powder; simmer it up, and serve. Oysters may be added. Turkey Patties.—Mince some of the white part, mix it with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a small bit of butter warmed, and fill the patties. Turkey xeith Oysters.—Truss a good white turkey for boiling, with the feet turned up like a fowl; tie some slices of fat bacon over the breast, boil it gently in braise or in stock-pot, take.it up a few minutes before wanted, in order to drain the water from it: take out the skewers and packthread which trussed it; set it on a large dish, and pour over it plenty of good oyster sauce. Some stuffing should he put into the crop as directed for Turkey Roasted. Turkey Pie (Raised) with Tongue.— Bone a turkey, then take a boiled pickled tongue, pare off the skin, put it into the middle of the turkey, with a light, well seasoned forcemeat, and some slices of sweetbread; sew it up, and put it into boiling water for ten minutes. Make a raised crust, lay some forcemeat at the bottom, then put in the turkey (the tui- key must be cold), with rashers of fat ba- con tied over it, then put on the lid,oma- ment it, and set it in the oven to bake. When done, takeoff the lid, take out the bacon, ghaze the breast lightly, add a cullis or truffle sauce, and serve. Turkey Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a Tittle white gravy, a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and serve in the middle of the dish, with the above all round. Turkey en Ragoitl,— Have a ragoutTUR ( 477 ) TUR in hechamelle sauce, of mushrooms, truf- fles, cacks-coinhs, fat liver-', and artichoke bottoms; lay the turkey when boiled in a dish, and serve the ragout over it. Tohkev Roasted-—It may be either stuffed with sausage meat, orstufliiig the same as for fillet of veal. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, take care that the heat of the fire is con- stantly to that part, as it frequently hap- pens that the breast is not sufficiently done. A strip of paper should be put on the bone to prevent its scorching, while the other parts are roasting. Baste well, and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and bread sauce in a sauce tureen. A few bread crumbs, and a beaten egg should be added to the stuf- fing of sausage meat. Tubkey a, la Rayale.—Make a mince with tongue, ham, mushrooms, and truf- fles, put it into a Spain.-sh or brorvn sauce ; the turkey being roasted, dish it, add a little lemon-juice to the mince, which pour into the dish, and serve. Turkey to Souse.—Bone a good sized turkey, and tie it up like a sturgeon ; put into a large saucepan two quarts of vine- gar, a qnartot water, and some salt, make it boil, and then put in the turkey, and let it boil till tender; then take the saucepan from the fire ; as soon as it is cold, put the whole into a pan, and let it stand three weeks. Serve it with elder- vinegar, and garnish with fennel. Turkey to Stew. — Take a saucepan sufficiently large to hold the turkey con- veniently, lay four skewers across at the bottom of the saucepan, and put in the turkey upon these ; pour in a quart of good veal gravy, add a bunch of celery, cut into small pieces, and some beaten mace ; let these stew as slowly as possible, till the gravy is more than half con- sumed : then put in a large piece of butter rolled in flour ; when it is melted, put in a glass of Madeira or other white vvine ; and if there is not a sufficient quantity of sauce, add a little .strong veal gravy, thickened with butter; when it is tender take it up, dish it, and pour the sauce over; to which may be added, if you think proper, pickled mushrooms, or oysters. Turkey, Stuffed with Onions, and Pickled PorA" —^cald two dozen of small white onions, and boil them in stock, with half a poui d of pickled pork cut in thin slices, a bunch of parsley, green shalots, tfiyme, a bay-leaf, two cloves, whole pepper, and salt; when done, drain them all, then stuff’ the turkey with them, and wrap the turkey in slices of b.acon, over which put paper, and roast it: make a sauce with a bit of butler, a slice of ham, two shalots, and a few mush- rooms ; soak these for a time, then add two spoonsful of stock, the same quantity of cuilis, let it simmer for about half an hour, skim and strain it; when ready, add a small spoonful of mustard, a little pepper and salt; serve this sauce with the turkey. Turkey stuffed with Sausages a7id Chesnuts.—Roast what quantity of ches- nuts you think necessary, peel tiiem, and pound a part of them to make a. farce, with the liver, chopped parsley, shalots, a little salt and pepper, a hit of butter, and the yolks of three raw eggs, put this farce into the crop, and stuff’ the body with the whole chesnuts, and small sausages, first fried in butter till about half done ; cover the turkey with slices of bacon, and put paper over that, then roast it, and serve with a chesnut cuilis. Turkey stuffed with Truffles.—Peel about a pound, or a pound and a half of truffles, mi.Y with them a little salt, pep- per, and grated bacon, and stuff' your turkey with it ; sew it up close, wrap it in two or three sheets of paper, and keep it in this state for three or four days, that it may take the flavour of the truffles, then roast it, well covered all round with slices of bacon, and paper over that; serve with a Spanish sauce. Turkey S«rpme.* — Take a large turkey, prepare it for the spit, and roast it; when done, let it cool, raise the skin of the breast carefully, take off’all the meat from under it, and make a hole, which fill with a salpicon ; cover this with a quenelle farce ; give a good shape to the breast; strew grated bread and Parmesan cheese over the whole, and place it in the oven a short time to heat, and colour it. Serve with a reduced es~ pagnole, as a remove. Turkey, {Legs of) Broiled.— Braise some undressed legs of turkeys until tender, then dip them in oil or melted butter, and broil them of a fine brown colour, serve with a I’emoulade sauce. Turkey Legs en Papiltotes.*—Fry tlie legs lightly in a little Imtter until both sides are coloured, then lard them quite through ; make some farce with a slice of veal, breast of fowl, streaked bacon, atid truffles, all minced small, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices ; cut as many large rashers of bacon as you bave turkey legs, spread some of tbe/«rc(? over every rasher, roll a leg up in each, tie them that the farce may not escape; bread them thoroughly, atid wrap them in pieces of white paper", put them into a deep dish, and bake them in a moderate oven. When dotic, take off the paperT u R. ( 478) T U R and thread, and serve with any sauce you please. Tuiikev {Leqs of) Provence Fashion. —Take the legs of a roasted turkey, put them into a sievypaii with a glass of wine, the same fiuantity of stock, pepper, anti salt; a bundle of sweet herbs, two cloves, and a dove of garlic; simmer about an hour, to reduce the sauce ; make a ragoflt with a sweetbread, chopped mushrooms, parsley, slialots, and a bit of butter; soak this a little while, then add a little stock and cullis, and boil it some time : when ready, add a pounded anchovy, cliopped capers, and a handful of olives, stoned ; warm together without boiling; you must add pepper and salt, according to taste: the sauce should be sharp and relishing. Serve it upon the legs. Turkey (Legs of) en Surprise.—Bone a couple of undressed legs of turkies quite to the end, and fill the inside with a farce made of livers, sweetbreads, mushrooms, parsley, slialots, pepper, and salt, the yolks of two eggs, grated bacon, and a little nutmeg; sew them up, and braise them with slices of bacon and lemon. .Serve with a Spanish sauce. TonKEY,^^w^s in Chipolata.*—Bone, and trim some turkey wings, and put them into a stewpan with a little butter ; set them on a fierce fire, and in a few minutes add a dessert spoonful of flour, two ladiesful of stock, a bay-leaf, and some whole pepper; blanch a little streaked bacon, cut it into small square pieces, put them to the ragofit, with some champignons, parsley and scallions; when about tnree parts done, skim it,and throw in four and twenty small onions (all the same size), peeled, some blanched chesnuts, and a few sausages. When the ragoflt is sufficiently done, take out the parsley, scallions, and bay-leaf; place the wings on a dish, and pour the gravy, thickened with the yolks of two eggs, over it, and serve. Turkey (fVingsand Legsof), Glazed. —Cut oil" the wings and legs of a turkey (if a large one the wings alone will be sufficient for a dish); cut them pretty large from the breast, lard them all over, or lard only one to please dillerent pa- lates ; braze them on a slow fire, with slices of veal and ham, a bundle of sweet herbs, some cloves, whole pepper, salt, and stock; when done, skim the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and finish it like a fricundeau. Turkey fFings, Haricot of,*—Take the wings of some young turkies, trim and bone them; make a light roux, in which fry the wings lightly ; put them into a stewpan with some rich broth, with parsley and green onions, skim it care- fully, and when about three parts done, put m some turnips, cut into round pieces,an inch and half long,and browned when done, drain the wings, place them on a dish en couronne., and the turnips in the centre. Turkey fFings au SofctV.*—Toss up as many turkey wings as you wish in some butter; then add to ihem eight ladiesful of veloute, a spoonful of stock, a bay-leaf, whole pepper, one clove, a hunch of parsley, and green onions^ let these boil, skimming carefully. When about three parts done, take off all the fat; then reduce the sauce till very thick, take out the parsley, onions, bay-leaf, and clove ; put in a liaison ol three yolks of eggs, and an ounce of butter; put the wings on a dish, pour the sauce over them; as soon as they are quite cold, cover each_ wing well with the sauce; roll them in bread-crumbs, then dip them in beaten eggs, cover them again with crumbs, and fry them nicely ; drain and serve v/ith fried parsley. Turkey Potilts. — These should be drawn in the same manner as a turkey, except that the head should be left on, and turned under the pinions, with tke bill pointing outwards. Turkey-poult, en Mayonnaise.* — Take a cold roasted turkey-poult: cut it up, take off'all the skin, and put the pie- ces into a pan, with a little oil, tarragon vinegar, a little minced ravignite. salt aad pepper. When they are well soak- ed, lay the pieces on a dish, the inferior ones first; pour nmayon7iaiseover them; garnish with hard eggs, fillets of ancho- vies, gherkins, capers, and a cordon of jelly round the edge. Turkey-poult, Peau de Goret.*— Prepare a fine turkey-poult in the usual way; rub it over, and baste it with oil, like a sucking pig, whilst roasting : make it a nice colour, sprinkle salt over, and serve it with a sauce a la Liable. TURNIPS, Boiled.—Vare them thick ; when boiled, squeeze them well, to tho- roughly drain them from the water; mash them smooth, heat them with a lit- tle cream, add a piece of butter, a little flour, pepper, and salt. Turnips, Purie qf.*—Take a dozen large turnips, slice and put them into a saucepan, with a quarter of a pound of butter ; set them on a fierce fire, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon : when of a nice clear colour, add a ladicful of veloute, and another of veal blond ; re- duce it to the proper consistence; skim it well, and] rub it through a bolting cloth. Turnip Sauce. — Pare four turnips, and let them simmer gently in a littleT U R ( 479 ) T U R water until done, and the liquor reduced, then rub them through a sieve. Add to them a little bcchamelle, then cut some more turnips in shapes, as lor haricot; simmer tliein also the same as the first, and then add them to tlie others. Turnip Soup.—Be careful in choosing your turnips, that tliey are not in the least spongy; take twelve, and cut them about an inch square; then cut them into the form of a barrel, and put them as you do them into a basin of water; while they are preparing, seta quarter of a pound of butter on the fire in a shallow stetvpan, to clarify; when the turnips are ready, and drained from the water, put them in the butter, and fry them till they become of a fine brown colour; then put them on a sieve to drain ; after this put them into a soup-pot, with a little sugar and salt, and fill it up with con- somme; set it by the stove to boil gently, skim it well, and clarify it the same ns other soups. It will be a great addition to put in at first with the turnips, a few heads of celery, cut round and blanched. Bread must be put in this, as well as other clear soups made with vegetables. Turnips in Various fVays.—Cut them in pieces, parboiled in salt and water ; then stewed in butter, with parsley, scal- lions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; thicken the sauce, and serve it over them. Par- boil, dram, and serve with a sauce tournee and mustard-sauce mixed. Turnip-tops.*—This vegetable is in season during the early partof the spring; they should be very young, and all the stalks, and withered leaves taken oil'. Turnip-tops require a great deal of water to boil tisem; put in some salt, and serve them like spinach. Turnip-tops, Pickled.—Choose them young, pick off all the stalks and wither- ed leaves, put them into boiling water, set them on the fire, and when tender, press out all the water, and leave them to coal; then put them into a jar, with some salt, and cover them with the best vinegar. TURTLE Fins. — The fins being stewed with the turtle as in the receipt for turtle soup, make a dish of them nlnne, by putting them into a stewpan with some good strong espagnole, and some madeira or port wine, in which let them boil gently till the rawness is oil’ the wine ; then squeeze in some lemon- juice, lay them on a dish with a piste border round the edge ; garnish them with forcemeat, eitherin ballsor lengths, and pour the sauce over the whole. 'I'hey may be served with an Italienoe, tarragon, or any other sauce ; the inside flesh of the turtle, which has the apjiear- ance of chicken, may be larded and treated as a fricandeau oi veal. Turtle Soup.— The day before you dress a turtle, chop the herbs, and make the forcemeat; then, on the preceding evening, suspend the turtle by the two hind fins with a cord; and put one round the neck, with a heavy weight attached to it to draw out the neck, that the head may be cut off with more ease ; let the turtle hang all night, in which time the blood will be well drained from the body. Then, early in the morning, having your stoves, and plenty of hot water in readiness, take the turtle, lay it on the table on its back, and with a strong pointed knife cut all round the under shell, (which is thecallipee); there are joints at each end, which must be carefully found, gently separating it from the callipash (which is the upper shell) ; be careful that in cutting out the gut you do not break the gall. When the callipee and the callipash are per- fectly separated, take out that partof the gut that leads from the throat; that, with the three hearts, put into a basin of water by themselves ; the other interior part put away. Take the callipecj and cut off the meat which adheres to it in four quarters, laying it on a clean dish. Take twenty pounds of veal, chop it up, and set it in a large pot, as directed for espagnole, pulling in the 11.’sh of the turtle at the same time, with all kinds of turtle herbs, carrots, onions,one pound and a half of lean ham, pepper corns, salt, a little spice, and two bay-leaves, leaving it to stew till it takes the colour of espagnole ; put the fins(the skin being scalded oft') and hearts in,, half an hour before you fill it, with half water, and half beef stock; then carefully skim it; put in a bunch of parsley, and let it boil gently, Wke consomme. AVhile the turtle is alerting, carefully scald the head, the callipee, and all that is soft of the calii- pash, attentively ob.serving to tal;e off the small.-'st particle of skin that may remain; put them with the gut into a large put of water to boil till tender ; when f.o, take them out, and cut them in squares, putting them in a basin by themselves till wanted for the soup. The ne.'ct thing is the thickening of the soup, which must be prepared in the same manner as sauce tournee. The turtle being well done, take out the tins and hearts, and lay them on a di.sh ; the whole of the liquor must pass through a sieve into a large i>an; then, with a ladle, take off all the lat, put it into a basin, then mix in the turtle liquor (a small quantity at a lime) with the thick- ening made the same as sauce tournee ;( 480 ) VAN T U K but it does not require to,neither mustit be, one twentieth part so thick •, set it over a brisk fire, and continue slirniig till it boils; when it has boiled two liours, beiiiit skimmed all the while, squeeze it through the tammy into another large Ftewpan, put it on the fire, and stir it as before, till it boils; vvhen it has boiled gently for one hour, put in the callipee and callipash, with the gnt, hearts, and some of the best of the meat and head, all cut in squares, with the forcemeat balls and herbs, which you should iiave ready chopped and stewed in 6spagnole; (the herbs are parsley, lemon-thyme, marjorum, basil, savory, and a few drop- ped mushrooms). It must be carefully attended to and skimmed, and one hour and a half before dinner, put in a bottle of Madeira wine, and nearly half a bottle of brandy, keeping it cunlinually boiling gently, and skimming it; then take a basin, put a little cayenne pepper into it, with the juice of six lemons squeezed through a sieve. When the drnner is wanted, skim the turtle, stir it well up, and put in a little, salt, if necessary ; then stir in the cayenne and lemon-juice, and ladle it into the tureen. This receipt will answer for a turtle between fifty and sixty pounds. This method of dressing turtle, is ac- cording to the directions of Mr. Rey- nolds. Turtle {Mock) Soup.* — Take six pounds of beef-steaks, two pounds of veal cuttings,and some fowl trimmings; put them into a large saucepan, with equal quantities of consomme and veal blo7ul, two carrots, and an onion stuck with two cloves. 8et it on the fire, and when it is reduced to consomme, strain it through a cloth. Put into another saucepan half a calf’s head, well washed, and scalded, and cut into pieces about the size of a half crown, add the coitsomme, and a bottle of Madeira wine, tie a tew allspice and a little mace in a cloth, and put in ; set it on the fire, in ahmit three hours time add thirty whole champignons, two throat sweetbread.-, cut in pieces like the head, fifp'en cocks’-combs, thirty kidnies and thirty fowl quenelles. When the whole is sufficiently done, skim off all the fat from the soup, which should be clear and of a_ deep colour. Put two poached eggs into a soup tureen, on which pour the soup and serve. Turtle Soup {Mock).*— Take four cnll’s-fcet, break the. bones, and stew tliem in as much water as will cover them ; take them out when all the meat and gristle will part from the bones; then put the meat into the liquor again, with lialf a pint of beef gravy, half a pint ofwhite,or port wine, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, a little mace, .Tamaica pepper, and Cayenne ditto; tie these all up in a muslin bag; when boiled enough, add the yolks of eight eggs boiled hard, truffles, morels, and force-meat balls. 'I'he juice of lemons or oranges improve it. Turtle Soup {Mock).—Take a white call’s head, with the hair well scalded off"; split it in two, and bo>l it in plenty of water till very tender : then take all the meat from the bones, with the white skin, and cut it in squares like the turtle meat. Make a thickening the same as for turtle, which mix with good strong espagnole ; boil it in the same manner, and put in the herbs, forcemeat, wine,&c. in short finish it the same as.the receipt for turtle. U. UD D E R—( See Tongues). UMBLES—(See Deer). V. VANILLA Cream.*—Take two drachms of vanilla, a quart of milk, the yolks of three eggs, five ounces of sugar, and a pint of cream; beat up the eggs well with the milk, and then add the other ingredient-; set the whole on a moderate fire,and stir it constantly with a wooden spoon, till the cream will adhere to it; tfien strain, and serve it cold. Vanilla Cream, Renversee.*—Take as much cream as will fill the mould you intend to use, and boil it up a few times, with the proportionate quantities of va- nilla and sugar; then let it cool, and if the mould will contain a quart, mix twelve yolks and three whole eggs with the cream,and run it five times through a bolting cloth. lJutter the mould, pour the cream into it, and place it in the baiti marie, hut not too hot; when the cream is set, which you may know by touching it gently with yourfinger, turn it on a dish; take the remainder of tlie cream, stir it over the fire like white .-auce, and as soon as it sticks to the spoon (which must be of wood), take it off', stir it an instant, and then pour it over the other cream, and serve cold. Vanilla Cream ll'liipp d.’ —Put a pinch of gunuiragon intoa pint of cream, add a small quantity of orange-flower water, pnwder-sugAr to the taste, and a little milk, in which some vanilla litis been boiled, and the mi;k strained; whip these ingredients with a whisk, un-VE A VE A 481 til the whole is sufficiently frothed ; then ' lay it carefully on a dish, in a pyramidal form, and serve it. Vanilla Cream Ice.* — Whisk the whites of twelve eggs to a firm froth in a preserving pan, pour on them the yolks of eight, and a pound of sifted sugar, whip the whole well with a whisk, and pour in by degrees two quarts of boiling cream; continue to whip it for some little time, and then put it on the fire, with half {an ounce of vanilla bruised; still whipping; when it has boiled up three or four times, strain it, and freeze as usual. (See Ice.) Vanilla, Creme of {Liqueur).*—Dis- solve over the fire two pounds ten ounces of broken sugar, in three pints of purified river water; when it has boiled up' once, pour it into a jar, on three drachms of vanilla, cut in pieces, and half a grain of amber. When quite cold, add three pints of good brandy, cover the vessel, and when it has infused six days, co- lour it with a little prepared cochineal; filter, and bottle the liqueur. Cork the bottles tight, and seal the corks. Vanilla Sticks.*—Take some march- pane paste, a quarter of a pound of choco- late, and the same of vanilla ; mix these well into the paste, and then form it into sticks, like tlie vanilla in its original form ; lay them on a sheet of paper, and bake in a slow oven. VEAL.—The flesh of the bull calf is firmer, and generally more esteemed than that of the cow calf, hut the flesh of the latter is the whitest, and the fillet is often preferred on account of the udder. When the head is fresh, the eyes will ap- pear full; if the shoulder vein is of a clear red, it is good; when there is any green or yellow spots, it is stale; the breast and neck, when good, should look white and clear; the loin is very apt to taint under the kidney, it will be soft and slimy when stale. Veal should never be kept long undressed, ns it by no means improves from keeping. The French divide the leg into three parts, besides the middle bone; these are called the Noix, Sous-noix, and Contre-mix. The first is the largest, and has the udder to it; the second is the flat white part under theMoi>, and the third is the side part. Veal, Blanquette o/.*—Take a cold roasted shoulder of veal, raise the skin carefully, and cut all the while meat into slices; make a ragoUt with some champignons, cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, a hit of butter, a pinch of flour, salt, and pepper; when this ragudt is reduced properly, put in the veal, add a liaison of yolks of eggs, and some cream; stir it in over the fire, taking care not to let it boil; squeeze in a little lemon- juice, and serve. Veal Boiled.—Veal should be well boiled, in a good deal of water; if boiled in a cloth, it will be whiter; serve it with tongue, bacon, or pickled pork, greens of any sort, brocoli, and carrots, or onion sauce, white sauce, oyster sauce, parsley and butter, or white celery sauce. Broiled Venetian Fashion.—Cut some slices of veal, tolerably thick and large, and let them marinate for about an hour in a little oil, chopped parsley, mushrooms, shalots, bay-leaf, thyme, basil, pepper, and salt; let as much of the marinade adhere to them as you pos- sibly can. and strew over them bread- crumbs ; broil them slowly, haste them with wliat remains of the marinade, and serve with a squeeze of lemon, or a Seville orange over them. Veal Broth.—Stew a knuckle of veal in a gallon of water, with two ounces of rice or vermicelli, a little salt, and a blade of mace. When thoroughly boiled and the liquor reduced to half, it is fit for use. Veal Cake.* — Take some nice thin slices of veal, and season them with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, grated ; have ready some hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and put a layer of these at the bottom of a basin or pan, then a layer of veal, then some slices ot ham, over this strew marjorum, thyme, parsley, shred fine, bread-crumbs and lemon-peel, chopped small; then a layer of eggs, veal, ham, &c. and so continue till the pan is filled ; pour some good gravy over the whole, cover the pan with coarse brown paper, tie it closely over, and set it to bake in a slowoven ; an hour will be sufficient to bake it; when cold, turn it out upon a dish, and serve ; gar- nish with parsley. Veal 6'a^es.*—Take three quarters of a pound of lean veal, a quarter of a pound of beef-suet, half the rind of a lemon, a little mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little shalot; mix these together, beat them well in a marble mortar, make them into small cakes, fry them, and send them up in a good gravy, either white or brown. Veal Cannellons,*—Cut yourveal into very thin slices, all the same size, at least three inches square ; lay on each slice some godiveau, roll it up, so that it may not be more than an inch thick; fasten all the edges with white ol egg, so that they may look like pieces of cane: stew them in a covered pan, with veal gravy and consomme; when done, drain them ; strain the sauce, take oll'all the. fat, and let it cool, to glaze the caunclloNs,VE A VE A ( 482 ) Veal {Cold).* — Cut aomc cold veal into tliin slices, the size and thickness of a half crown, dip them into the yolk of an eg«wellbeateti,cover them with bread- crumba, sweet herbs, lemon-peel, shred fine, and grated nutmeg. Put a little fresh butter into a p.-in, makeitquite hot, fry the veal in it, and when done, lay it on « dish by the aide of the fire; make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon-juice, pour it over the veal, and garnish with lemon. Veal Collops.*—Cut some cold roast veal into dice, and give them a toss up over the fire m a little butter, with a pinch of flour; then add a little stock, shred parsley, and scallions, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; keep it on the fire till the sauce adlieres to the mince ; then put the whole on a dish. Make a paste with a little flour, butter, water, the yolk of an egg ; dissolve a little salt in the water you use; roll out this paste very thin, and lay the cold mince in little heaps on half of it; turn the other half over it, cut it round these little heaps, pinch the edges of all to keep in the meat, and fry your collops. Veal d PEsturgeon.*—Lard your joint of veal with small lardons, and put it into a saucepan with small onions, slices of bacon, carrots,artichoke bottoms, a pinch of coriander seeds, salt, pepper, and a bottle of white wine; cover the sauce- pan, and boil it slowly on a moderate fire till done. Serve it m itsown liquor, with the addition of a sauce piguante. Veal Florentine. — Take two veal kidnies, and mince them with their fat, very small, and mix it with a few cur- rants, the yolks of four or five eggs, boiled hard, and chopped small, a pippin cut fine, some bread-crumbs, candied lemon- peel, cut small, and season with nutmeg, cloves, salt, mace, a little mountain wine, and some orange-flower water; line the bottom of a dish with a nice puff- paste, put in the above, cover it with pufl’ paste, and set it to bake in a slow oven. Veal, Fricandeuu of.*—Choose a very plump piece of veal, and with small neat lardons, lard those parts which are not eovered with skin; butter the bottom of n Btewpan, lay in the veal, the larded side uppermost, with four carrots, as many large otiions, a bunch of parsley and scallions, two bay-leaves, a little thyme, two cloves, salt, pepper, and two glasses of water; set the pan on the fire ; when the meat is pn'tty near done, let it boil quickly to reduce the sauce, and when quite done, take out the carrots and onions, and let the sauce fill to a glaze, with which cover the meat, and place it on a dish. T,akeout nearly all the fat, and put into thestewpan a dessert spoon- ful of Hour, and a glass of water; stir it well, and then pour it over the veal, serve with soi'rel, endive, spinach,or any thing else you please. If the veal weighs between tliree. or four pounds, it will re- quire three hours boiling; if larger, a longer time will be necessary. Veal Fricandeuu.*—Take the round, or part of the round of a fillet, fry it in butter, of a nice brown, with onions cut it slices, and a little garlic, then set it to stew in some very rich gravy orcnllis: when tender, take it out, thicken the gravy with flour, add a little lemon-juice, and serve this sauce over the veal. Veal Fritters.*—Cut the remains of a tender piece of veal into small, thin, round pieces; dip these into a good bat- ter, and fry them in the usual way, in oil. When done, drain, sprinkle salt over, and serve them. Veal, Grenade of.*—Take a noix of veal, cut it into four piece.', all of the same size, and lard them ; take also a very fine, fowl, season them moderately, and partly dress them ; butter the inte- rior of a plain deep mould, in the centre of which, put a large ball of farce, place the four pieces at the four corners, be- tween them a piece of the fowl (using only the white parts) ; fill up the inter- mediate spaces with oray-fi.'h, and alj the interstices with farce; pour in some jelly to fix the different articles together. Be careful to place the backs of the cray-fish and the larded parts of the veal against the sides of the mould, and put some truffles into the jelly before it is poured in. Set the mould in a cool place, and when the jelly is congealed, dip it an instant into boiling water, and then turn it nut. Veal —Take two ounces of salt- petre, one pound of bay, and one pound of common, salt, and one ounce of juniper berries, bruised ; rub some of this well into a leg of veal, cut ham fashion ; lay the shinny side downwards at first, but let it be well rubbed and turned evep’ day for a fortniglit; then hang it in wood smoke for a fortnight. It maybe boiled, or parboiled, and then r<>a>tcd. Veal, Haricot of. — Take a neck or breast of veal (if the neck, cut the bones short), and half roast it ; then put it into a stewpan with justsulfirient brown gravy to cover it, and when nearly ihine, have ready a pint of peas boiled, .six encumbers pareil and slic’d, and two lettuces cut into quarters, and stewed iu browngravy, with some forcemeat bails ready fried ; put all these t« the veal, and let them just simmer; lay the veal in a dish, iH)urV BA 483 ) YEA the saiiee and peas over it. and serve the lettuces, and forcemeat balls all round. Veal, Cold^ Hashed.—it in slices, flour it, put It into a saucepan with a little good gravy, some grated lemon- peel, pepper, salt, and ketchup. Make it hot, then add a little lemon-juice; serve fried sippets round tlie dish. Veal, Mittced.—Cut the veal into very 1 small pieces, but do not chop it; take a little white gravy, a little cream or milk, a bit of butter rolled in flour, and some grated lemon-peel; let these boil till of the consistence of a fine thick cream ; shake flour over tlie veal, and sprinkle it witli a little salt, and white pepper; put it into the saucepan to the other ingre- dients, and make it quite hot, but be careful that it does not boil after the veal has been put in, or it will be hard; before being taken up, squeeze in some juice of lemon ; serve it on a dish over sippets. Veal, Minced^ with Poached Eggs.— Mince part of a roasted fillet of veal ex- tremely fine, put it into a stewpan, and pour over it a sufficient quantity of good hot bechamelle sauce to make it of a tolerable thickness ; then have a stewpan full of water, with a little vinegar in it, and as soon as it boils, break in two eggs, and keep it boiling quick (but not so as to boil over); when they are done, take them out with a cullender spoon, and put them into another stewpan of clear warm water; break two more into the vinegar and water, and do the same as the two first, and so on till six are done ; when you want to serve, squeeze a little lemon- juice in the mince, pour it on a hot dish; take the eggs out of the water neatly, trim them, and lay them on the veal, and serve. Veal, Minced in a Timbale. — Make some mince, the same as mince veal, with poached eggs, and keep it hot by the fire, fry some good plain pancakes, made with- out sugar or lemon-peel; then lay a pancake at the bottom, and all round a well-buttered oval mould, then lay the rest open, and spread each with the mince ; roll them up neatly, and lay them close in the mould ; cover them up with a pancake ; about half an hour be- fore dinner is to be served, put it into a moderate oven ; and when wanted, turn them out in a dish, and pour a little strong gravy in the dish under them. Veal d la Moelte.*—Take some very thin cutlets, beat them well with a rol- ling-pin ; pound a piece of crumb ol bread, about the size of an egg, some bacon, beef-marrow, shred parsley, with pepper, and salt, in a mortar; spread a little of this farce over a slice of veal, and cover it with another; fix the edges together with beaten egg; when all are done, dip them in egg, bread, and broil them. Veal Olives.—Take some slices from a fillet of veal, then cut them round of about the size of the palm of your hand, make a forcemeat with tlie remains of roasted chickens, suet, herbs, eggs, and spices ; lay the slices alternately with a little of this forcemeat and fat liverssliced, truffles, or mushrooms ; continue these to a moderate height,’, the last layer being veal; then roll therri in a caul, and tie or sew them up ; put them into a stewpan, with slices of ham, and veal, parsley, shalots, two cloves, one of garlic, pepper, and salt, a little stock, and one glass of white wine ; let it stew slowly; when (lone, take ofl’the caul, wipe olf the fat, skim, and strain the sauce ; add a little cullis, lemon-juice, and chopped parsley, and serve over the olives. Veal Olives.—Cut some thin slices from the fillet (if it is large, one slice will be sufficient for three olives); rub them over with yolk of eggs, strew on them some bread-crumbs, mixed with parsley chopped, lemon-peel grated, pepper,salt, and nutmeg ; on every piece lay a thin slice of bacon, it must not be too fat; roll them up tight, faste'n them with small skewers, rub the outside with egg, roll them in the bread-crumbs, &c. and lay them in the Dutch oven, and let them brown, without burning; they will take a long while doing; (some prefer frying them). Serve the following sauce over them :—thicken a pint of good gravy with some flour, add ketchup, cayenne, and pickled mushrooms, and boil this for a few minutes. Forcemeat balls may be added. Veal Olives d la Mode. — Take two pounds of veal, beat it very fine, as for forcemeat, and mix it with the yolks of iwo eggs, two anchovies, half a pound of marrow, a few mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, half a pint of oysters, some thyme, sweet marjorum, parsley, spinach, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and mace, finely beaten ; let the whole be thoroughly well mixed : take a veal caul, have a layer of bacon, and a layer of the ingredients, roll it in the veal caul, and either roast or bake it; when done, cut it into slices, lay them in a dish, and serve a good gravy over them. Veal Olive Pie.—Line your pie dish with a good crust, put in .the olives (see receipt for veal olives), fill up the dish with stock, and put in the oven to bake ; when done, pour in some gravy,thickened with a little cream and flour boiled to- gether, and serve. Veal Mince some veal that 2T2V E A ( 484 ) V E A ia underdone with a little parsley, lemon- peel, a little grated nutmeg, and a little salt; add some cream, and just sufficient quantity of gravy to moisten the meat; a little scraped ham is a great improve- ment : the above should not be warmed until the patties are baked. Veal Pie.—Take a neck, or nut, cut out of the fillet, cut it into collops, stir it over a quick fire with a bit of butter till it becomes brown ; then set it to stew with a little pepper, and in just sufficient water to cover it, until done enough ; then take it oIf the fire and let it cool. Line a dish with pulf paste, and lay in the veal, with thin slices of ham between ; add the yolks of hard boiled eggs, a little pepper and salt, and half of the gravy the veal has been stewed in ; put on the lid, trim it neatly, form a star of leaves upon the top, egg, and bakes it, then pour in the remainder of the gravy, heated with a little butter-sauce. Veal Pfe.—Cut steaks from a loin of veal, season them with pepper, salt, nut- meg, a few pounded cloves, slice two sweetbreads, season them in the same manner ; line a dish with puff-paste, put in the veal, and sweetbreads; add the yolks of hard boiled eggs, and oysters at the top ; fill up the dish with stock, put on the cover, and bake ; when done, pour in some good gravy thickened with cream and flour. Veal Potted.—Take a pound of the lean of white veal, put it into a stewpan with two ounces of fresh butter, the juice of a lemon, pepper, salt, sifted mace, a bay-leaf, allspice, cloves, nutmeg, cinna- mon, and mushroom powder," a small quantity of each; a little parsley, thyme, savory, and a couple of shalots chopped fine ; stew them ten minutes, then pound them ; add a pound ef the mellow part of a boiled pickled tongue, beaten to a paste, half a pound of cold fresh butter, mix all well together with two eggs beaten; then press the mixture down tight into small pots, cover them with paper; and put them into a moderate oven ; twenty minutes will he sufficient for them to bake ; when cold, pour over them clarified butter. Veal Potted.—Take part of a knuckle or fillet of veal that has been stewed, bake it on purpose; beat it ton paste with butter, salt, white pepper, and mace pounded ; pot it, and pour clarified but- ter over. Veal Quenelles.*—They are made the same as ail others. Veal H(igoxU.*—Tdike. a breast of veal, cut it into pieces, put it in a stewpan over the fire to brown, then pour in as much stock as will cover it; add an onion stuck with cloves, some salt, black pepper, whole, and a bundle of sweet herbs, ana let it stew till done ; then thicken some gravy, add a little ketchup, and serve over the veal. Veal Ragoiit u la Dourgeoise.*—Dis- solve some butter in a stewpan, brown in it two spoonsful of flour, then put ia your veal, and keep stirring it tdl the meat is firm; pour in some hot water, and continue to stir until it boils, then put in a little thyme, a couple of bay- leaves, pepper, and salt, let it boil slowly; in an hour's time add the pease, onions, champignons, carrots, or morels, accord- ing to your taste. If the ragodt is thin, make a liaison with the yolks of four eggs, and serve. Veal Rolled.—Bone the thin end of a breast of veal, strew over it a good deal of parsley, pepper, and salt, to make it savoury, a little nutmeg, grated lemon- peel, and some sweet herbs ; roll it tight, sew it up, put it into a small stewpan, with the bones, and just sufficient water to cover it, some whole pepper, a bit of lemon-peel, an onion, and a little salt, and let U boil until tender; in cold weather it will keep good for a week. It may be served cold, but is best cut in slices, dipped in egg, then in bread crumbs, and fried ; thicken some of the liquor with a little flour ; add pickled mushrooms, a little cream, ket- chup, a few morels, pepper, and salt; pour the sauce in a dish, then lay in the veal. VBAi. Sausages.—Take equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar, and season well with pepper and salt; when wanted for use, roil and fry it, and serve either with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or white collops. Ve.kl Seme lies.*—Cut part of a fillet of veal into slices an inch thick, season them with salt and pepper, and give them a few turns in a little butter, with a bay-leaf. Lay at the bottom of a deep .saucepan a very thin sbee of bacon, and on it one of the slicesof veal, and continue to lay them in alternately, until the whole are used, then add a glass of water and some bay- leaves; close the saucepan very tight, first putting a sheet of paper over the meat; stew it on hot ashes for four or five hours ; take care to keep the fire up to the same point all the time. Veal Stoclc.—Cut a leg of veal and some lean ham into pieces, put them into a saucepan, with a qu.art of water, some carrots, turnips, onions, leeks, and celery; stew them down till nearly done, but do not let it colour; then add a suffi- cient quantity of beef stock to cover theVE A 485 ) V E A ingredients, and let it boil for an hour; skim oft"all the fat, and strain it; a little game stewed down with the above will greatly improve the flavour ; be particu- larly careful that it does not burn. Veal d la Villageoise.—Season some large slices of veal with pepper, salt, fine spices, parsley, and shalots; cut likewise some thin slices of ham, dip them in egg, and lay them on the slices of veal, and wrap the ham up in the veal, and let them boil with a glass of white wine, and the same quantity of stock ; when done, skim, and strain the sauce, and serve it in the dish with the veal, without adding any thing else. Veal {Breast of) Collared. — Bone a breast of veal, and beat it; rub it over with the yolk of an egg, and strew over a little beaten mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, a large handful of parsley chopped small, a few sprigs of sweet marjorum, a little lemon-peel shred fine, and an anchovy, pounded, and mixed with a lew bread crumbs. Roll it up tight, bind it with a tape, and wrap it in a cloth ; then let it boil two hours and a half in salt and tvater, then take it out, and hang it up by one end to drain, then put it into the following pickle: a pint of salt and water, and half a pint of vinegar. Veal {Breast of) Collared.— Bone a breast of veal, and with a feather do it all over with the yolk of egg well beaten ; take some crumbs of bread, a little grat- ed nutmeg, beaten mace, pepper, salt, a few sweet herbs, and a little lemon- peel cut small; strew these all over the veal; run a thick skewer into it to keep it together; roll it up tight, and bind it very close with tape ; wrap it in a veal caul, and roast it; before being taken up, take oft"the caul, sprinkle the meat with salt, and baste it with butter; it should be roasted before a brisk fire, and done of a nice brown; when it is taken up, cut it in three or four slices, lay it in a dish; have ready a boiled sweetbread, cut it in slices, and lay round the dish, (some prefer it larded), and serve a good white sauce over the veal. Veal {Breast of) Giacee.*—Cut the breast as square as possible, bone it to within two inches of the gristles, and tie down the meat, so that the joint may look very plump, and cut the soft bones be- yond the gristles. Put the breast into a large saucepan with three or four car- rots, as many onions, two bay-leaves, two cloves, and a ladleful of stock ; cover the veal with rashers of bacon, and a buttered paper; set it on a large fire to make it boil, and then lessen it, put some fire on the saucepan lid, and so leave it; when about three parts done, take out tlie car- rots, &c., and let the liquor fall to a glaze; and when quite done, turn the meat over, that the upper part may take the glaze also, then dish the joint; put two ladiesful of espagnole, and a spoonful of stock into the saucepan; detach the glaze from it over the tire, and pour the sauce over the veal. Two hours and a half are required to dress a breast of veal in this manner, Veal {Breast of) Marinaded. — Take a breast of veal, and cut it into pieces, and let it boil in some stock till three parts done ; then take it out, and mari- nade it about an hour, with two spoons- ful of vinegar, a little of the stock it was boiled in, some pepper and salt, two cloves of garlic, four of spices, sliced onions, thyme, and bay-leaf; drain it, and fry it of a good colour with parsley. Veal {Breast of) Roasted.— Breast of veal should be roasted with the caul on till almost done enough, then take it oft"; flour, and baste it. Veal {Breast of) Stewed. — Put a breast of veal into a saucepan, with a little stock, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, some mushrooms, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, and let it stew gently until quite tender; when done, lay the meat in a dish, skim, and strain the liquor, and serve over the meat; garnish with force- meat balls. Veal {Breast of) Staffed.*—Take three quarters of a pound of fillet of veal, and a pound of udder: mince, and mix with tnem shred parsley, shalots, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the yolks of three eggs. Cut oft" the ends of the rib bones of a breast of veal, make an incision between the top of the meat and the ribs, which fill with as much of the farce as it will hold, then sew it up, that none of the farce may escape ; lay the veal in a brais- ing-pan between rashers of bacon; add some poele, and stock if necessary, and braise it for three hours. When done, let it drain, untie and glaze it. Put some reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze, and an ounce of butter, into the liquor ; let the latter dissolve, stir it well, and pour it over the breast of veal. Veal {Breast of) en Surtout.*—Take a fine bre.ast of veal, bone it, take off all the skin, and lay it on a dish; make a fine farce, which spread all over the meat to the thickness of an inch ; then roll it up with two or three small pigeons, some morels, veal sweetbreads, artichoke bot- toms, &c.; cover the breast with fillets of fowl or game, and ihe farce; envelop the whole in a thick caul, wash it over with yolk of egg, cover it completely with bread crumbs, and bake it of a nice co« 2 T 3VE A ( 480 ) V EA lour. Serve it with veal gravy. This joint ouglit to be partly dressed in good stock before it is put en surtout, Veal Chops d la Belle Vue.* — Lard half a dozen handsomely cut chops, with udder, truflles, and tongue d I’ecarlate, and then lay them in a stewpan on slices of bacon; cover them with the same; season them with pepper and salt, and add two carrots, two onions, (one with two cloves in it), and a hoiiquet f pour in a glass of Madeira wine, and a ladleful of conpmme ; set them on a brisk fire, which lessen after a short time, and leave the chops on for an hour. When done, press out all the moisture; as soon as they are cold, trim, glaze, and lay the chops on a dish, garnished with whites of eggs, truffles, and gherkins; pour into the middle of them a green mag?ionnaise, and put round the edge of the dish a border of jelly. VEAL Chops, Breaded. •— Take six or seven handsomely cut chops, season them well with salt and pepper, and put them into melted butter; when suffi- ciently soaked, put them into beaten eggs, take them out, and roll each sepa- rately in bread crumbs ; make the chops as round as you can with your hand, and lay them on a dish; when all are bread- ed, broil them slowly over a moderate fire, that the bread may not be too highly co- loured. Serve with clear gravy. Veal Chops d la Drue.*— Lard some well cut chops, with bacon and ham, sea- soned with pepper, salt, and spices, and brown them in some butter, then trim them nicely. Put into a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices of veal, the same of carrots, two cloves, a bay-leafj parsley, and scallions ; lay the chops in, cover them with bacon and a buttered paper: moisten with a ladleful of cotisomme, and stew them for an hour and a half, then drain, glaze, and serve them with any sauce you please. Veal Chops Fondantes. * — Separate the chops from the bones, take out all the sinews, and mince the meat very small, and also some streaked bacon; mix them together, and season the whole with pepper, salt, and spices ; spread this farce on pieces of caul, making each the shape of a chop; bury a bone in every one, so that the end only will be seen ; cover these with bread crumbs, mixed with sweet herbs, and then fry them in lard; let the pan be very hot. Serve them dry,!or not, as you please. Veal Chops en Lorgnette.*—Beat the chops rather flat, and lard them with bacon, seasoned with pepper, salt, and spices; brown them in some butter, and trim them nicely. Cut seven pieces of tongue, d Vicariate, of the size of a half- crown, and nearly half an inch thick; cut some large onions into round slices the same thickness, but rather larger; take as much from the centre of the lat- ter, as the tongue will fill up; make as many of these as you have chops, upon which place them ; then stew the chops as for la Drue. When done, glaze tue chops and the tongue, but not the onion, and dish them ; reduce the sauce with a iittle espagnole, and pour it into the dish with them. Veal Chops en Papillotes.*—Cat and trim your chops as usual; and put them into a tossing-pan, with some butter, salt, and pepper; set them on the fire, and let them remain till nearly done; then place them on a dish, and pour the but ter, with some sweet herbs, over them. Take as many pieces of paper as you have chops, (each sufficiently large to contain a chop), oil them well, lay on every on e a thin slice of bacon, and (when cold) a chop with the herbs on both sides, then another thin slice of bacon ; fold -these up in the paper as close as possible; make the ends quite secure to prevent even the butter from escaping, and broil them over a slow fire, that they may be thoroughly done, and the paper not burnt. Serve with a clear gravy. Veal Chops Sautees.*—Take seven handsome veal chops, trim,and lay them in a tossing-pan, previously sprinkled with pepper and salt; strew over the chops, also, pepper, salt, par.-ley, and shalots, shred very small; pour half a pound of melted butter over them, and set the pan on a fierce fire; turn the chops when one side is done ; be careful not to make them too deep a colour; if you find they brown too quickly, lessen your fire. When done, arrange them neatly on a dish; put four ladiesful of espagnole, and a bit of glaze into the pan, stir It round, and pour the whole over the chops, and serve. Veal Chops, d la St. Carat.*—Cut some tongue, d I’ecarlate, into moderate sized lardons; grate a little bacon, and warm it in a stewpan ; add the lardons, with pepper, and nutmeg; toss them up in this, and lard some veal chops quite through with them when cold. Brown the chops in a little butter, and then trim them. Put into a stewpan a few rashers of bacon, cuttings of the tongue, slices of ham, and a little basil; lay in the chops, cover them with b.acon, car- rots, or onions sliced, and two glasses of consommi, or stock; cover the saucepan ; put fire on the lid, and let them stew for two hours. When done, drain and glaze them; strain the sauce, and with fourVE A ( 487 ) V E A ladiesful of it, mix three of espagnole; reduce, and pour it into the dish, witli the chops. Veal, Chump of, d la Daub/;.—Cut on the chump end of the loin; take out the edge bone, and put in its place some good forcemeat; tie it up tight, and lay it in a stewpan with the bone that has been taken out, a bunch of sweet herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, some white pepper, and a pint of good veal stock; cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of wliite paper over it. Cover the pan close, and let it simmer for a couple of hours ; then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve it with mushroom, or sorrel sauce in the dish, or any other sauce you think bet- ter. Veal Cutlets, in Crtwf.—Make a mari- nade with melted butter, mushrooms, shalots, half a clove of garlic, pepper and salt, and let the cutlets simmer in this for an hour; then wrap them in pufl' paste with all the seasoning; put them in a deep dish, and bake them in the oven; baste with yolks of eggs; make a hole in the middle, into which pour a good clear sauce when ready to serve. Veal Cutlets, Marinaded.—Veal cut- lets marinaded, are done the same as in all former directions for marinade; or you may do them the same as a breast of veal marinaded, and serve with whatever sauce you approve of. Veal Cutlets, in Paper.—C\wp up all sorts of sweet herbs, season with pepper and salt; mix these with a little oil, roll the cutlets in it so that they may be well covered ; then wrap them in paper, well buttered; broil them slowly, and serve either with or without sauce. You may also wrap them, if you think proper, in very thin slices of bacon. Veal Cutlets d la ProvenQale.*—Lard some well-shaped cutlets with anchovies and gherkins, and soak them for half an hour in some oil, with pepper, and salt; tie each cutlet in a rasher of hacon, and stew them in some butter, with parsley, salt, pepper, and two glasses of stock. When done, untie, but do not take oft' the bacon. Serve with their own sauce reduced. Veal Cutlets, in Ragodt.—Cut some large cutlets from the tillet; beat them flat, and lard them ; strew them over with pepper, salt, bread crumbs, and shred parsley; then make a. ragodt ol veal sweetbreads and mushrooms: fry the cutlets of a nice broAvn in melted but- ter; then lay them in a dish, and serve the ragodt very hot over them. Veal Cutlets en Redingotes.*—Pre- pare your cutlets in the same manner as veal chops, enpapillotes ; but instead of wrapping them in paper, envelop them with their seasoning in pieces of light paste, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, pour veal gravy over, and serve the cutlets hot. Veal Cutlets, with Sour Sauce.—Let the cutlets be cut moderately thick ; put them into a saucepan, with just suffi- cient water to cover them ; when half done, take them out, and let them drain and cool; make a thin batter with eggs and a little flour ; set a frying-pan on the lire, with some lard ; as soon as it is hot, dip the cutlets in the batter, and fry them of a nice brown; serve with sauce made of verjuice, salt, and pepper. Veal Cutlets, Stewed.—Cut part of the neck into cutlets ; shorten them, and fry them of a nice brown colour ; then stew them in some good gravy, thickened with a little flour, until tender; then add some ketchup, cayenne, salt, a few truffles, and morels, and some pickled mushrooms. Forcemeat-balls are a great improvement. Veal Cutlets, and Sweet Herbs.—Chop all sorts of sweet herbs, mushrooms, a little winter savory, shalots, pepper and salt, a spoonful of oil or butter; dip the cutlets in this, and reduce the sauce to make it stick; then do them over with egg, and bread crumbs.'and set them in the oven to bake; add a glass of white wine, and a little cullis to the sauce, skim it well, and when the cutlets are done, lay them on a dish, and serve them to table, with the sauce poured over. Veal {Fillet of) in a Ragodt.—Take out the bone from a nice large white fillet of veal, and put into its place plenty of good forcemeat; tie it up well; put it on the spit, fasten buttered paper over, and roast it; have a ragodt the same as for loin of veal, with ragodt; cut the arti- chokes into any form you may think pro- per; place the veal in the centre of the dish, the artichokes round; serve the ragodt round, but not over, the veal. Veal, Fillet of, Stuft'it with the same ingredients as directed for the shoulder, and roast it according to the same directions. See shoulder of veal roasted. The fat should be papered. Veal, Fillet cf. Slewed.—Stutfit; half bake it, with a little stock in the dish: then stew it with the stock it was baked in, with some good gravy, and a little Madeira; when done enough, thicken the sauce with flour ; add ketchup, cay- enne, a little salt, and lemon-juice ; give it a boil, and serve it over the meat. Veal Gristles, ati Blanc.*—Cut the gristles of any form you choose; scald.VE A ( 488 ) V E A and then throw them into cold water; when quite cold, trim, and put them into a Rte wpan, with a quarter of a pound of melted butter; add in a minute or two a table-spoonful of flour, shake the pan about, that the latter may mix with the butter; in a little while add stock, champig-nons, a bouquet garni, and some pepper; let these stew for two hours, then put in some small onions; when the latter are done, make a/mfson with the yolks of three eggs, and serve the gristles, covered with the onions and champignons. Veal Gristles, en Chartreuse.*—Cut and dress the gristles as directed. (See Po§tis.) Take thirty carrots, and thirty turnips, cut them into round pieces, all of the same length and size (that of a far- thing), and boil them separately in a lit- tle consomme ; also boil forty small onions (as near of a size as possible), and twenty lettuces ; scald s®me French beans, and young peas, taking care they do not lose their green colour; slice half the number of pieces of the roots after they are boiled. Having thus-prepared all the ingredients, take a plain round mould, butter it well, and cover the bot- tom as follows ; first, a circle of the sliced carrots, then one of sliced turnips, within that, one of the onions, the French beans, and the young peas; place them as close together as possible. On these arrange the other pieces of carrots and turnips, put them regularly that they may look handsome ; cut the lettuces into halves, and lay them over the roots; these, if laid close, will form a solid foun- dation for the rest; place the gristles over them, also closely, and fill up all ^aces with the remaining vegetables. Cover the mould tight, and put it into the bain marie ior an hour. In the mean while, take the liquor in which each arti- cle was dressed, clarify, strain, and re- duce it; then add a spoonful of reduced espagnole, and a bit of glaze; stir these ■well in, and when the chartreuse is ready, turn it out, and pour this sauce over it, VB/i.1. Gristles, e?i Marinade.*—Cut the gristles into square pieces, and put them into a stewpan on slices of bacon ; cover them also with bacon, and pour in a ma- rinade j stew them for two hours and a half; tlien drain, dip them in batter, and fry them, but not in a hot pan. Serve with parsley fried crisp. Veal Gristles, Poeles.* — Take the gristles from two breasts of veal, cut, them very close to the rib-bones ; they may either be cut in small sqtiare pieces, or left whole at pleasure, only taking care that they are all tlic same size ; soak and blanch them well, then put them into a stewpan between slices of bacon ; pour a poele over, and stew them for four hours, when, if they are tender enough for a larding-pin to penetrate them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, putting into the centre, whatever you may think proper. Veal Gristles, au Soleil.* — Prepare and dress the gristles as aic blanc, and when thickened, place them on a dish, and pour the sauce over them. When quite cold, cover them with bread- crumbs, dip them in beaten eggs, bread them a second time, and fry them, but not in a very hot pan. Serve them on fried parsley. Veal Gristles, Tureen r/.*—Prepare and stew the gristles au blanc, except that they must be moistened with con- somme instead of stock, they will require three hours slewing. Take some small veal kernels, sweet-breads, cock’s-combs and kidnies, and twelve fowl guenetles, all dressed separately ; drain, and put them into the tureen, lay in the gristles, and champignons; thicken the sauce (which ought to be rather thin than otherwise) with the yolks of five eggs, and sttain it into the tureen. Veal Gristles (Tureenof).—Wash in two or tliree waters a good quantity of veal gristles, taken from the breast or any other part; then lay them on a sieve to drain ; put a bit of butter into a stew- pan, and set it over a slow fire, and as soon as it boils, add more butter ; when that has done hissing, put in the gristles, and an onion shred fine, some pepper, salt, sweet herbs, shred fine, and some flour; let these fry a little, then pour in some gravy; add three cab- bages cut in pieces, and let the whole be thoroughly stewed ; when done, skimotV the fat, pour in some ham cullis, and serve. Veal Kidney.—Take a veal kidney, chop it up with some of the fat, likewise a little leek, or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Veal Kidnies.—Mix some sliced onions and minced kidney well together ; then fry it in butter, and add a little stock, a little white wine, about one spoonful, pepper and salt, and serve with a liaison of yolks of three eggs, and cream. If you wish to serve it brown, instead of eggs and cream, make use of cullis sauce. Tliey may be broiled, and served with a rclisiiing sauce. They may also be made into omelets, and served on toasted bread. They are likewise very good mixed in forcemeats. Veal Kidnies, Sautes.*—Minw a kid- ney small, and put it into a tossing-pan,V E A ( 489 ) VEA with a little butter, champif?non8 (pre- viously dressed), parsley, slmlots, pep- per, suit, and nutmeg ; set the pan on tlie fire; a few minutes are quite sufficient to do the mince ; wlien done, take it out. Put a pinch of flour, a glass of white wine, and a little reduced espapiole into the pan ; slir it round, add a lutle more butter, pour it over the kidney, squeeze in some lemon-juice, and serve. Veal Kidney Toasts.—Mince a roast- ed kidneys mince also half its fat; season it well with pepper and salt, chopped shalots, parsley, and a small quantity of green sweet basil; mix all together vvith the yolks of eggs, and lay it upon slices of bread of an equal thickness, or cut into any shape you please, and smoothed over with a knife dipped in egg; strew over the mince, bread-crumbs, put them into a baking dish upon thin slices of bacon, and put them into the oven ; when sufficiently baked, drain oft the fat, wipe the bread with a linen cloth; serve with a little gravy under them. Veal, Knuckle of, Boiled. — Break the bones that it may require less room ; wash it well; put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade or two of mace, and a few pepper-corns ; cover it with water, and let it simmer till done. You may, if you think proper, boil a little macaroni or rice with it, to give it a slight degree of thickness. Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and cream, and serve this either over the meat, or separately. Veal, Knuckle of. Fried and Stewed. —Fry the knuckle with onions cut in slices, and butter, to a nice brown colour; and have in readiness some peas, let- tuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, that have stewed about an hour in a small quantity of water ; add these to the veal, and let all stew together till the meat is tender. Add pepper, salt, and a very little mint, shreQ fine, and serve the whole together. Veal, Le^ of, en Surprise.—Lard the veal with slips of bacon, and a little lemon-peel cut very thin ; make stuffing the same as for a fillet of veal, only mix with it half a pint of oysters, chopped small, and stuft your veal with this, and put it to stew with just sufficient water to cover it; let it stew very gently till quite tender; then take it up; skim off the fat from the liquor, and add some lemon-juice, some mushroom ketchup, the crumb of a roll grated fine, half a pint of oysters, a pint of cream, and a bit of butter, rolled in flour, let this sauce thicken over the fire, and serve it over the veal; garnish the dish with oysters, dipped in butter, and fried, and thin slices of toasted bacon. VeaIj,Loin of, (I la Becharnellc.—Chop out the inner bone from a nice white loin of veal, and trim it that it will lay smooth on the dish ; chop oft' part of the chump end, and put it down to roast; let it be well done; have a sauce pre- pared, and a few minutes before the veal is to be served, take it up, and cut a deep square hole close to where the chump was cut off; mince the lean you have cut out extremely fine, put it into the hot heehamelle sauce, and pour it again into the hole; serve it to table with a well buttered toast under the kidney, and plenty of gravy. Veal (Jhofn o/) Elonffee.*—Bone this joint, and trim it of an oblong form ; sea- son the under part with salt and pepper, tie it up, and put it into a braising-pan, with three quarters of a pound of butter, set it on the fire, and when quite hot, cover the pan ; let it stand on a slow fire, turning it occasionally for three hours and a half. The joint thus cooked may be served simply as a remove to soup, or glazed, or cold, with a jelly round it. Veal {Loin of), luith ifgg'oiff.—Pre- pare the loin the same as with hecha- melle, only take particular care that it is not roasted of too high a colour; pre- pare a ragodt made with truffles, mush- rooms, cock’s-combs, livers, &c. &c., artichoke bottoms, well stewed; lay your veal in the centre of the dish, place the artichokes round, and pour the ra- goiU round and over the artichoke ; serve it to table. Veal {Loin of) Roasted.—Spit the loin, roast and baste it with butter ; place under it a dish with some vinegar, a lit- tle sage, rosemary and thyme; let the gravy drop into this dish ; when the veal is done, take it up, make the herbs and gravy hot, and pour it into the dish with the meat. Veal {Loin of) Roasted.—Tha fat of the loin must be papered; roast it the same as the fillet. Veal {Neck of) Boiled.—Chop off the chine bone from a fine white neck of veal, sprinkle it with flour, put it in cold water,_ boil it very gently, taking care to skim it well; when done, serve it with parsley and butter, oyster sauce, or gar- nished with tongue or ham. Veal {Neck of) a la Creme.*—Take a handsome sh.apcd neck of veal, bone and cut out all the sinews, soak it in milk for four and twenty hours ; then take it out, dry it well, sprinkle it with salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, fasten it to the spit, and roast it for two hours and a half, basting it with bechamelle. When done, put a bit of glaze, a liitle pepper and nutmeg to the bichamolle;V EA ( 490 ) VEA stir them together, pour the sauce into a dish, and serve the neck <>f veal in it. Veai, (Neck of) in Jelly,*—Take a square-cut neck of vealj and having boned it, lard it regularly with udder, tongue, d I’ecarlale, and very black trulHes; wrap_ in slices of bacon, and tie it up ; put the joint into a braising-pan with rem- nants of veal and poultry, a bouquet, two carrots, two onions, two cloves, a glass of brandy, halfa glass of Madeira wine, and two ladlesful of jelly; set the pan on the fire; when the liquor boils, skim it, cover the whole with a buttered paper, and close the braising-pan ; set it on a stove, with tire on the lid ; keep the heat moderate and equal for two hours and a half. When done, put the meat under pressure, and when cold, trim and glaze it. Lay it on a dish : serve it with the jelly, and a ?nayonnaise. Veal {Neck of) au Sanqlier.*—Lard a good shaped neck of veal as usual, and marinade it in two glasses of vinegar, with onions, bay-leaf, sage, coriander, pepper and salt; place it over hot ashes for two hours, and then roast it, using the marinade to baste it. Veal {Neck of) Steiued.—Season some slices of bacon with pepper, salt, shalots, and spices; lard a breast of veal with these, and let it simmer until tender in three pints of stock, two onions, a bay- leaf, and a little brandy ; when done, lay the meat in a dish, skim ofl' the fat from the liquor, and pour it over the veal. Veal {Noix) en Bullottine.* — Season some lardons with salt, pepper, the four spices, shred parsley and scallions, thyme, and bay-leaf; lard with this a noixoi veal, and then put it into a slew- pan with half a pound of butter, add pepper and salt, set it on the tire for three quarters of an hour, withottt letting it take colour; then put the veal in a dish ; leave the pan on the lire that the butter may oil, when add a quarter of a pound of grated bacon, the same of oil, and a dessert spoonful of shalots, chop- ped; fry them a little, then put in a dozen champignons, chopped, a spoonful of slired parsley, seasoned with pepper and nutmeg; when they are all done, pour them Over the veal. As soon as cold, take six sheets of paper, oil them well, lay thin slices of bacon over the meat, and then wrap it_ in a sheet of neper, witli all its seasoning, fold a scconu over that, folded the reverse way. then again another, and so on till all the paper is used ; take care that_ the ends are quite secure, and tliat it is folded of a nice shape ; then tie it up, place it on a grid- iron, over a slow fire, minding the paper does not burn : do it for an hour, untie the paper, and serve it; if the outer pa- per should be coloured in the least de- gree, take it ofl’, Njs,Ki,{Ntnx of) d la Gen-d’arme.*— Lard a noix^ of veal with fat bacon, and tongue d I’ecarlate, and then soak it for twelve hours in oil, with a slired onion, parsley, thyme, garlic, a bay-leaf, pep- per and salt; after which wrap it in a sheet of paper, with all the marinade ; fold two more sheets of paper over it, fasten the noix to a spit, and roast it; remove the papers when the meat is nearly done, that it may brown ; glaze it lightly, and serve it w\th n poivrade. The paper should be well oiled before the veal is wrapped in it. VEAh {Noix of) Sautes.* — Having taken ofl'the skin, cut a noix of veal into round pieces, the size and thickness of a dollar, beat each piece with the back of a knife, lay them neatly in a tossing pan, and pour over them three quarters of a pound of melted butter, iviih shred pars- ley, scallions, pepper and salt; set the pan on the fire, and the moment the pieces of veal are hot on one side, turn them over, and heat the other : five mi- nutes is quite sufficient to do them; then lay them on a dish and keep them hot; reduce rather more veloute than itsual, add to it the gravy from the pan, and a liaison of two eggs; strain this sauce over the pieces and serve. Veal {Noix of) en Surprise.*—Take a well shaped 7ioix, lard the upper part with fine lardons, and the under part with larger ones, all well seasoned with salt and pepper; line a braising pan with rashers of bacon and slices of veal; add two carrots, four onions, one stuck with cloves, a b.iy-leaf, salt, a bunch of pars- ley and scallions; lay in your veal, co- ver the udder only with slices of bacon, put a round piece of buttered paper over the whole, and braise the noix ns usual, and then let itcool. When cold, cutout a piece of the meat of an oval shape, through which take out great part of the meat, leaving it at the bottom a.sufficient thickness that it will contain a ragoiit securely. Cut a slice from the piece first taken out, cut the rest into dice, and do the same with some champ'guons, and put Iwth into Make the ho/a' not again, then drain and glaze it; put the mince into the hole, lay theslice over it, glaze that also, and serve it; pour some espnpnole trnvaillie into the dish. Veal {Small Noix of).* — Take from the shoulder of veal hficen small nor’.r/ take, ofl'all the skin and trim them; run these on three skewers, marinade them in some oil, with a sliced onon, parsley, pepper and salt, lor half an hour; then( 491 ) V E A VE A fasten them to a spit, and roast them before a large fire; glaze and serve with a clear aspic, ova.puree of any kind yon like. Veal (Shoidderof) Galantine*—Take a handsomely cut shoulder of veal and bone it; cut about a pound of meat from the thickest parts, mince it together witli an equal quantity of bacon, mix them well with the yolks of four eggs, shred parsley, salt, and spices, and spread the/aree, about an inch thick, over the whole joint; lay on it some lurdms, truffles, tongue d Vicariate, carrots, and an omelet, coloured green with spinach essence, all cut irf lardons; cover these with another layer of farce, place more of the lardons, &c. and then atbirdlayer of farce', rollup the shoulder, carefully securing the ends; lay rashers of bacon round it, wrap it in a cloth and tie it tight. Line a braising pan with slices of i bacon, put in the galantine, with t\vo calf’s feet, the bone of the shoulder, six carrots, eight or ten onions, one stuck with four cloves, four bay-leaves, a little thyme, a large bunch of parsley and scal- lions ; pour in some stock, and cover the pan ; set it on the fire, and leave it for three hours, by which time the shoulder will be sufficiently done; take it out, pressing it gently that all the gravy may run from it, and then let it cool. Break two eggs into a stewpan, beat them well, strain the liquor, and pour it to them, stirring all the time, that they may be thoroughly blended; add a bay-leaf, a little thyme, and parsley, salt, pepper, and apices ; set it on the fire, and when it begins to boil, remove it to the side; cover the stewpan, and put hot ashes on the top, and leave it to boil slowly for half an hour, when strain it gently through a fine cloth, but do not pre.ss it; when cold it will be quite a jelly. Place I the galantine on a dish, trim and glaze if, and surround it with the jelly. I Veal {Skoulderof)auxPvtiies Racines.* —Tile shoulder is honed, and larded in- side with bacon, seasoned with shred parsley;, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper, salt, and spices; it is then rolled, and tied up ! like the galantine, dressed in tlie same w.iy. It is served hot, with pctites racines ( round it, (See Roots.) Veal {Shoulder of) Roasted. — Cut off r' the knuckle for a stew or gravy, stufl' I the shoulder with the following ingre- I dientssome suel, cluipped fine, pars- ley and sweet herbs, shred fine, bread- I crumbs, aud grated lemon-peel, pepper, I aalt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg ; whilst r roasting, flour and baste it; veal requires ' being more done than beef. Veal Sweetbreads,—They are of them- selves, generally considered very insipid, and are, therefore, usually served with a sharp relishing sauce, in whatever wan- ner they are dressed, and commonly take their name from the sauce with which they are served. Particular card should be taken to braise them tender and white. Veal Sweetbreads d VAnglaise.* — Take six veal sweetbreads (three of each sort) scald, and then dress them in a half glaze, tn which let them cool; have ready the yolks of four eggs, beaten with a quarter of a pound of butter, to the consistence of a thick cream ; di ain the sweetbreads, soak them in it, and then roll them in grated bread; repeat this operation, and either broil or bake them.. Veal Sweetbreads {Atelets of).* — When the sweetbreads are scalded, cut them into oblong pieces, all the same size, and put them into an atelet sauce; cut also a calf’s udder in the same man- ner, but very thin; put these, alter- nately, on skewers ; dip them in beaten egg, and broil them. Serve with a to- mata, or Italienne sauce. Veal Sweetbreads d la Bichamelle.— Blanch two throatsweetbreads, and then let them stew for fifteen minutes in some good braise ; take tliem out, and let them cool; then trim them neatly round, and cut them in rather thin slices, put them into some good bichamelle sauce ; a few mushrooms is a very greatimprovemeiUf make the whole very hot, and serve. Veal Sweetbread Boudin.* — The sweetbreads being scalded, cut them into pieces as big as nuts, and mix with them pork and beef, chopped small, shred tar- ragon and scallions, godiveau, bread, boiled in milk, and beaten with yolks of eggs, season the whole with salt, pepper, and spices. Soak some pieces of caul in warm water to soften them, spread them open on the table, and fill them with the above mentioned mixture ; roll them up in whatever shape and size you please, cook them in a Dutch oven, and serve them crisp. Veal Sweetbreads cn Caisse.*—Make three paper cases, each sufficiently large to contain a sweetbread; take three sweetbreads, scald, and then dress them in an atelet sauce ; when done, and cold, utthem into the cases, previously tub- ed with oil; add a spoonful of cspagnolc to the sauce ; mix them well together, and then pour it into the cases; cover the sweetbreads with a few finely grated dry crumbs, add a few drops of melted butter, and bake for half an hour; let them be nicely browned aud serve, Veal Sweetbreads with Cheese.*—Fry some small onions in a little butter, andV E A ( 492 ) V E A then put in the sweetbreads, and half a glass of good stock. Cut some Gruydre cheese into thin slices, lay them on a disli, and pour on them a little veal gravy, previously mixed with the yolks of two eggs ; place the dish over a mode- rate fire, that the cheese may dissolve gradually, and when the gratin is formed, pour on it the sweetbreads with their sauce, brown it with the salamander, and serve very hot. Veal Sweetbreads {Coquilles of).* — Cut a throat sweetbread and some champignons into bits like farthings; put two large ladiesful of allemande, and a bit of glaze into a saucepan; when it boils, put in the sneetbreads. and cham- pignons, some butter, parsley, and le- mon-juice; give them a boil, and then put the preparation into scallop shells, cover them with grated bread, and Par- mesan cheese, and brown them in a Dutch oven. Veal Sweetbreads with Cullis.—Well scald the sweetbreads, and trim them, put them into a stewpan, with a small quantity of good' eonsommi., a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, two spoonsful of spices, a glass of white wine, a slice of ham, pepper, and salt; when they are done, skim the sauce, sift it through a sieve, and reduce it to a moderate consis- tence, adding a small quantity of parsley chopped fine, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and serve it over the sweetbreads. The lemon-juice mustbe omitted if the wine makes it sufficiently sharp or relishing, which is the cjise for some palates. ■Veal Sioeetbread d la Duchesse.— Scald it, then lard it; put into the middle a litile farce called salpicon, made with mushrooms, truffles, or fat liver ; sew it up, and boil it in good veal stock; reduce the sauce to a glaze, and serve with a wine sauce, orange, or any other. It is also served with any sort of stewed greens, glazed like a \ea\ frica71deaH. Veal Sweetbreads Fried.—Cut them in long slices, and with a feather do them fill over with yolk of egg; make a season- ing of pepper, salt, and grated bread ; do them over with this, and fry them in butter; serve with butter sauce, with a little ketchup mixedin, or with gravy, or lemon-sauce. ■Veal Siueetbrcads {Garniture of).*— Scald the sweetbreads, and put them into a stewpan on two rashers of bacon, lay another over them, add a little clarified butter, carrots, onions, bay-leaf, two cloves, and a sufficient quantity of stock to cover the whole; put in some salt, and stew the sweetbreads for three quar- ters of an hour. When done, cut them in pieces to use when directed. Veal Sweetbreads Claccs*—Take the whitest, roundest, and most fleshy sweet- breads, soak them well in warm water, then blanch them in nearly boiling water; take them out, drain, and lard them. Lay in a stewpan some rashers of bacon, slices of veal, carrots, onions, two cloves, and two bay-leaves ; put in the sweetbreads, with half a spoonful of stock only; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and braise them for three quarters of an hour. Take care they do not take colour. Serve with a puree of endive, or any other arti- cle of the same kind. Veal Stoeetbreads like Hedgehogs.— Scald the sweetbreads, and lard them with ham, and truffles, cut in small lar- dons, and fried for a short lime in butter (lard them so that the laidons may stick out a little to give the appearance of bristles]): simmer the sweetbread thus larded in the same butter the lardons were fried in, with stock, a glass of white wine, seasoned with a little salt, and pep- per; when done, skim and strain the sauce, add a little cullis, and serve this over the sweetbreads. Veal Siueetbreads Larded. — Parboil two or three sweetbreads; when they are cold, lard them down the middle with little bits of bacon, on each side with bits of lemon-peel, and beyond that, with a little pickled cucumber cut very small; stew them gently in cullis or rich gravy, thickened with a little flour, add mush- room powder, cayenne, salt, if necessary, and a little lemon-juice. Veal Sweetbread Pie. — (See Sweet- bread under the letter S.) Veal Stoeetbreads Roasted.—Trim off the tough part, and blanch for three minutes in a stewpan of water, with a little salt, three heart sweetbreads, then take them out, and put them into a basin of cold water till cool; have an egg beat up in a dish, some bread crumbs, and clarified butter, run a skewer through the sweetbreads, and fasten them on the spit; egg them all over, sh.ake some bread crumbs over, then sprinkle clarifi- ed butter over, and then bread crumbs again ; put them down to roast again for a quarter of an hour, then take them off the skewer, and serve them on a disk over a little butter sauce, mixed with a spoonful of gravy, a small'bit of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon-juice; let it be hot, but not boiling, and thoroughly well mixed before it is served under the sweet- breads. Veal Sweetbreads {Saute af).*—VTe- pare scald, and rir.ain the sweetbreads ; when cold, cut them into slices about half an inch thick; put some claiificd butter into a tossing-pan, season the slices with( <13 V E G I ) V E G 1 pepper and salt, lay tliem in the pan, pour more butter over tliem, and set the pan on a hot stove ; when one side is done, turn tliem; they require a very short time to dress them. Serve them with an Italienne. Veai. Sweetbreads to Steiv.— Parboil them, and slew them in a white gravy ; add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Veal Sweetbreads with Sweet Herbs.— Braise them the same as with cullis sauce, or much in the same manner; take all sorts of sweet herbs finely chopped, or any one or two in particular, and simmer them for some time in good cullis, and serve upon the braised sweetbreads,either whole, or cut in pieces. Veal Tendons d la ProvenQale.*—Cut your tendons into scallops, scald and press them ; when cold, put them into a : tossing-pan, with a half glaze ; take care i that the glaze covers th.em entirely; I place the tendons on a dish, en couronne; I have ready some onions dressed as fol- ■ lows; cut them in slices, and fry them, , with a very little garlic, in some oil; I drain the onion, simmer it in a spoonlui 1 of espagnole, with a little vinegar and ! allspice: pour this over the tendons, and ! serve. VEGETABLES. —Vegetables should ! be gathered fresh, picked clean, trimmed 1 or pared neatly, and washed in several r waters. Those that are to be plain boiled [i should be put into plenty of boiling water, h with salt in it, and drained the moment t! they are sufficiently done. Jf over boiled I they lose their crispness atid beauty. Vegetables (DwA oy ).—Wash a dish It with white of raw egg, then make four i' divisions in it with fried bread, and put M alternately into each division the fullow- ;i ing vegetables: spinach, turnips, pota- K toes, sliced carrots, and small onions, or II cauliflower, or heads of brocoli, all pre- li viously stewed in a little cullis ; when a put into the dish, let as much t/f the e essence as possible adhere to them. You « may, if you please, instead of making the d divisions of fried bread, make them of K mashed p.italoea and yolks of eggs mixed together, and put on the dish in as many divisions as you please; afterwards baked till of a nice colour, and served to table with any kind of stewed vegetables you I) may approve. Vegetable M/rroio.*—The smallest H are considered the best for dressing: they ■< should be put into hot water with a little ll salt, and boiled for half an hour, tliat i| they may be quite tender; serve them B on toasted bread, with plain butter in a < boat. '■ Vegetables in a JI/okW.—Line the in- side of an oval mould with rashers of bacon ; then set upright alternately, slips of turnips, carrots, pickled cucumbers, and celery, and asparagus heads. Lay a forcemeat at'the bottom of the mould, and round the inside of the vegetables; fill the centre with stewed beef tails, with the hones taken out, or with small pieces of mutton or veal passed with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and lemon-juice. Cover with forcemeat, wash it over with egg, and bake it. When it is to be serv- ed, turn it gently out of the mould upon a dish, take oflF the bacon, make a little hole at the top, and pour in some good cullis. Vegetable Pie.—Cut celery heads two inches long, turnips and carrots into shapes, some peeled small onions, or two Spanish onions, artichoke bottoms cut into quarters, pieces of cauliflower, or heads of brocoli, lieads of fine aspa- ragus, and any other vegetable you may think proper. Wash all these vegetables thoroughly clean ; then boil each sepa- rately in just sufficient water to cover them, and as they get tender, strain the liquor into one stewpan, and put the vegetables into another. Then add to their essence half a pint of strong con- somme ; thicken it with flour, and season with cayenne, salt, and lemon-juice ; boil it for ten minutes, and then strain it to the vegetables, and let them simmer together.^ Serve them in a raised pie crust, or in a pie-dish, with a raised crust baked round it. Vegetables to Preserve for the dVin- ter. — French beans must be picked young, and a layer of them put three inches deep into a small wooden keg; sprinkle them over with salt, and then put another layer of beans, and strew salt over, and so on as high as you please; be careful not to put too much salt. Cover them_ with a plate or a piece of wood that will go into the keg, and place a heavy stone over it; a pickle will exude from the salt and beans; when wanted for use, cut, soak, and boil them the same as though they were fresh. Keep c.Trrots, parsnips, and beet-rrots, in layers of dry sand, and do not clean either them, or potatoes, from the earth that remains about them. Store onions should be kept hung up in a dry cold room. Cut parsley quite, close to the st.alks, and dry it in a warm room, or dry it in a very cool oven upon tins. Let artichoke bottoms be dried slowly, and kept in paper b.igs; keep truffles, morels, lemon-peel, &c., in a very dry place. You may keep small close cabbages494 V E N V EN many weeks, by laying tl)etn, before the frost sets in, on a stone floor, which will blanch, and make them very fine. Vegetable Sortp.— Peel and cut into slices six large onions, six carrots, and four turnips; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling stock, then add to these a crust of bread toasted as brown and as hard as ossible, (but be careful that it is not urnt), some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt; and let the whole stew gently for four hours, then strain it tbrntigh a coarse cloth; have ready, sliced carrot, celery, and a little nutmeg, add them to the soup, and let them stew in it tmtil quite tender. Some like the addition of an anchovy, and a little ketchup. VELOUTE.*—Take the cuttings and remains of any joints of veal and fowl you may have in the house, of which take four pounds, and put into a large stew- pan, with some carrots, onions, parsley, scallions, three bay-leaves, three cloves, and a ladleful of stock; put your stewpan on a fierce fire, skim it well, and take care that the meat does not stick ; when suffi- ciently reduced, add as much stock as will nearly fill the stewpan, salt it well; give it a boil, skim it, and then put it on the side of the fire to simmer for two hours ; after which strain it through a tammy. Make a white roux, stir into it for ten minutes a few champignons, then pour on it, a little at a time, the above liquor; let it boil up once, skim it, and set it again by the side of the fire for an hour and a half; take olTall the fat, strain it again, and then put it by for use. Take care that the veloutc is not in the least ciilour- ed. as, the whiter it is the better. The veloutc travailUe is done in the same manner as the espaqnole. VENISON. — The choice of venison should be regulated by the appearance of the fat, which, when the venison is young, looks thick, clear, anil close ; as it begins to change first towards the haunches, run a knife into that part; if tainted you will perceive a rank smell, and it will have a green or blackish ap- pearance. If you wish to preserve it, you may by careful management and watching, keep it forafortnight by the following method ; wash it well with milk and water very clean, and dry it perfectly with cloths until there is not the least damp remain- i.ng, then dust pounded ginger over every part; this is a good preventive against the fly. When to he dressed, wash it with a little hike-warm water, and dry it. Pepper should also he added to keep it. Veniso.x (i/mw/qP).—Either roaster fry it; put some gravy into a stewpan, with a little flour, red wine, currant-jel- ly, and a little lemon-juice ; boil these together ; put in the venison, let it heat, without boiling, and serve. Veniso.v in Co//o;j*. — Cut part of a haunch of venison into col lops, which beat with the back of a knife, and lard them with small lardons; shred some thyme, rosemary, p!lr^ley, spinach, and other sweet herbs ; mix them with suet chopped fine, salt, pepper, cloves, nut- meg, and the yolks of eggs; spread this farce over the collops, roll them up, tie them round, and roa.st them ; place a dish under them to receive the gravy, pour claret into it, and when the collops are nearly done, put the dish on hot ashes, with grated bread, vinegar, cinnamon, and a little sugar; stir them together, add a ladlcful of clarified butter, put in the collops of venison, and serve very hot, with a sauce made as follows : lake of claret, water, and vinegar, a glass each ; put into them an onion stuck with cloves, two or three anchovies, a spoon- ful of salt, the same of pepper, aiid of cloves also ; give the whole a boil, and then strain it. Venison Hashed.—Warm it in-its own gravy ; if there is no fat left, take some slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, and let it simmer till dry ; then add it to the hash. Venison Hashed.*—Take some anche- vies, boil them till they are dis.'olved, then add some oysters with their liquor, a little milk, some red wine, and a little ketchup ; put in your venison, let it warm in tiiis, but do not let it boil, and serve it with fried sippets, and the sauce &c. over if. ^’’enison rasitj, to be served Hot.— Bone a breast of venison, beat it flat, cut it in large pieces, season it thoroughly, and lay it in a stone jar, and pour over it seme drawn beef-gravy; lay the bones on the top, then put the jar in a saucepan of water over the fire, and let it simmer for three or four hours, then set it in a cold place till the following day; then lay a piifl-paste, tolerably thick, round the edge of a deep dish, lay the meat in the dish, having first taken ofT the cake of fat from the top; if not sufficiently sea- soned, add more pepper, salt, and all- spice ; pour in part of the liquor, add some port wine, egg the licttoni p.iste, and lay on a thick top paste; trim and egg it, and let it bake ratlier more than an liour in a moderate oven ; reduce the remainder of the liquor with half a ivitrie of port wine till very strong, add a little cayenne, and pour this into the pasty jii.-t before serving.V E N ( 495 ) V E II Vexcson Pie or Pasty. — All kinds of meat intended for pies and pasties must lie hiijlily spiced wlien served hot. and still more highly spiced when served cold: bat the seasoning must be regu- lated by judgment and taste. Take one or two breasts of venison, (according to the size you wish to make your pie or pasty), hone it thoroughly, beat it very flat, and lard it through and througliwilh large larduns, well seasoned with all sorts of spices, and sweet herbs finely chopped; roll it up as tight as possible, and tie it up with strong twine. Tut into a stew- pan the bones and trimmings of the veni- son, with carrots, onions, paisley, one clove of garlic, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper- corns, and allspice, and let all stew till nearly dry ; fill it up with equal quanti- ties of beef or mutton braise, and water, whicli let boil very gently till done, then put in the roll of venison ; put paper on the top, cover very close, and let it stew gently with fire over and under. Wlien sufficiently done, take it oft' the fire, and let it stand in the liquor until nearly cold ; then prepare a plain paste of four pounds of flour to one pound of butter, the same as for raised pie, but instead of making it still', mix it as soft as possible ; lay part ol this paste as thick as you well can round the edge of the dish ; cut oil the twine from the venison, skin, and lay it in the dish, and pour some of the gravy it has stewed in ; put on the cover, trim it very neatly, make a hole in the top, do it over witii egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three or four hours ; reduce the remainder of the liquor it was stewed in, and when the pie is bak- ed, pour it in ; serve it cold. The pasty can scarcely be made too thick. Ve.ni'On Potted.—Put the venison into a pan, and pour red wine over it, and cover it with about a pound of butter; put a paste over the pan, set it in the oven, and let it be well baked; when done, take the meat out of the gravy, beat it fine with the butter that has risen to the top, add more if necessary; season with fiepper, salt, and mace pounded; put it into pots, set tliem in the oven for a few minutes; lake them out, and when cold, cover with clarified butter. Veniso.n llousted. — To dress the haunch, chop oil'the shank, take off the skin, but not any of the fat; then fasten it on the spit. Make a paste of flour and water, roll it out to the shape of the veni- son ; lay it on thick upon the venison, paper over that, and secure it well with pack-thread. Let it roast at a good dis- tance from the fire, and baste it fre- quently. About a quarter of an hour before serving take oil' the paste, dredge it with flour, baste it with a bit of butter and .sprinkle a little saltover it; and when of a fine brown colour, take it up, seive it on a di.sh. with a good gravy under it, and garnish the bone with cut paper. Serve with hot port wine,or currant jelly, in a boat- A neck of venison should be covered with paste, and roa.sted in the same manner as the haunch, only that it does not require being so much done. Venison A’a^ce.— Serve with venison, currant jelly by itself, or warmed with port wine, or port wine waimed by itself. Venison Seviey.— Make some paste with the crumb of a brown loaf grated' very fine, a pint of white wine, two pounds of sugar, and the rind of an orange shred small, add a little nutmeg, and salt; mix it well with the hand; roll it out; wrap the venison completely in this paste, and bake it for an hour. Serve it with white wine, boiled up wilh sugar, and spice ; strew powder-sugar over it. Venison {to Stetv).—Cut the venison into slices, and put them into a stewpan, with a little claret, rosemary, six cloves, vinegar, sugar, and grated bread; set these on a moderate fire to stew. When done, add grated nutmeg, and serve. Venison Sfmeif.—Tut into a stewpan a pint of good gravy, a pint of red wine, a large spoonful of currant jelly ; cut the venison into slices, and flour it, and put it into the stewpan with the ingredients, and let it simmer till tender; take up the venison ; thicken the sauce with a bit of butter rolled in flour, and serve it over the meat. Venison {Shoulder of) Stewed.—Take out the bone and beat it: have retidy some slices of mutton fat, that have been soaked a few hours in port wine, and lay them about the venison ; sprinkle a litile pepper, and allspice, in fine powder, over it, roll it up tight, and tie it. Tut it into a stewpan that will just hold it, with some mutton or beef gravy, not too strong, half a pint of port wine, some pepper, and allspice. Let it simmer very closely covered, and as slowly as possible for four hours. When quite tender, take oft'the tape, lay the meat in a dish, and strain the gravy over it. Serve with cur- rant-jelly sauce. The shoulder should not be dressed in this manner if very fat. VEllDE. — Infuse the rind of three lemons .and four oranges in two quarts of rum or brandy, for four-and-twenty hours, closely stopped ; then squeeze the juice through a strainer; if the fruit is good, tliere ivill be half a pint, and if there is not so much, make it that; add to it a pound and a quarter of sugar, pour to it three quarts of water, and keep stirring till all the sugar is dissolved ; 2 U 3V E R VE R ( 496 ) wlien it 18 dissolved, stir in the peel and spirits, and then one pint of cold new milk; pass it through a bag till clear; bottle it. It will keep good for twelve months. VERJUICE.—Verjuice is the young, unripe, and sour grape ; it is frequently used in French cookery, but very rarely put into English dishes. Verjuice.— Take some crab apples when the kernels turn black, lay them in a heap to sweat; then pick them from the stalks and rottenness, beat them to a mash, and press the juice through a bag of coarse hair cloth into a clean vessel; it will be fit for use in a month’s time. If intended for white pickles, distil it in a cold still. It may be put into sauces witen lemon is wanting. Verjuice {Compote of).*—Choose the largest verjuice, split them open, and take out the seeds; throw the berries into cold water. Boil some water in a skillet, drain the fruit, and then put it into the skillet; when it rises to the sur- face, take the skillet from the fire, cover /it, and let it stand. When cold, drain, and mix the verjuice with a sufficient quantity of clarified sugar; give it two or three boils together; remove it from the fire, skim, and pour it into the com- potier. Verjuice Marmalade.the seeds from your berries, which put into a skil- let of boiling water, and set them on the fire ; when the berries rise to the sur- face, cover the skillet, take it from the fire, and place it on hot ashes for two hours, that they may be quite green ; at the end of that time pour the whole into a pan ; when cold, press the juice from the verjuice, through a sieve into a stew- pan, and put it again on the fire that the moisture may evaporate; then take it out quickly, weigh it, boil an equal quan- tity of sugar iooasse, mix the fruit with it, simmer them together a little while, and then pour it into pots. Verjuice Preserved.*—Split, and take the seeds from two pounds of verjuice, put the fruit into a skillet of boiling wa- ter, set it on the fire, give it one boil, and then leave it on a very slow fire for five or six hours, covered close; at the end of that time the fruit will be green, and may be drained. Boil two pounds of sugar to petite plume, add the verjuice, boil it up twice with the p.in covered ; skim it well, and pour the preserve into ^ VT.V.3VICT. Preserved Dry.*—Scald the verjuice as above, boil your sugar to perle, add the fruit, boil several times, and then pour the preserve into a pan ; the next day drain off the syrup, boil it lo grand perle, put in the verjuice, cover the pan, give one boil, skim it, and put it aside. The next day drain the ver- juice, put it on slates, sprinkle sugar over, and dry it in the oven, or on a stove. Verjuice, Syrup of.*—Crm\\ as much very green verjuice as will yield six pounds of juice; strain the juice, first througli a sieve, and then through a jelly-bag until perfectly clear; boil three pounds of sugar to petit plume, pour the juice to it; take care that the fire is a large one, boil the whole to perle, and then take it off the fire, and when the sy- rup is half cold, bottle it. VERMICELLI Soup d VAllemande.— Stir together in a basin, the yolks of seven eggs, with half a pint of cream squeezed through a tammy, and the mi- nute before servingthe soup to table, add this liaison to it. Vermicelli Cream.—Boil some ver- micelli in milk until it becomes quite a marrnalade; let it cool, and then mix with it a pint of cream, some macaroni drops, orange-flowers!, and lemon-pecl,all chopped very fine, with a little pounded cinnamon, five whole eggs welt beaten, and sweeten with powder sugar accord- ing to taste; pour it into the dish it is to be served in, and b.ake it as usual. Vermicelli in Boil the quan- tity of milk you inay require, and put into it hall a pound of vermicelli peeled, and a sufficient quantity of sugar ; stir it frequently that the vermicelli may not form a paste: half an hour will be long enough to boil it. A little almond milk may be added when ready for table. Vermicelli Pudding.*—tioW a quar- ter of a pound of vermicelli «ith a fittle cinnamon, in a quart of milk; in the meantime mix a quarter of a pound of melted butter with a pint of cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; pour in the ver- micelli when quite soft; .add a little flour and beef murrow, and powder sugar to the taste ; beat all np for half an hour, tie it in a floured cloth, ,and boil it. Vermicelli Pudding.—]io\\ fourounces ofvermicelli in a pint of new milk, until quite tender, with a stick or two of cin- numnn. Then add half a uintof thick cream, a quarter of a pound of butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and the yolks offoureggs, thoroughly beaten ; lay the above in a dish and bake. Vermicelli Soup.* — Take .as much good stock as you require for yonrtureer, strain, and set it on the fiie, and when it boils, put in the vermicelli, and let itsim- mcr for half an hour by a slow fire, thatV I N f 497 ) V I N 2 U3 the vermicelli may not_ burst; the soup ought not to be very iliick. Haifa pound is sufficient for eight or ten persons. V’er.micelli Soup tl la Jardiniere*— Take the same roots as mentioned for a Macedoine, cut them into fillets instead of dice ; cook them in some stock before you put in the vermicelli ; season with salt and pepper; skim the soup fre- quently while boiling. Ver.micelli Soup tvilh Onions.*—Cat the best parts of some onions into very thin pieces, and fry them lightly in a little butter ; then add as much stock as you require for your soup, season it with salt and pepper, put in your vermicelli, and boil for half an hour. If you desire to have merely the flavour of the onions, strain the soup througli a tammy, before you serve it. VESPETRO.*—Take half a pound of each of the following seeds: angelica, coriatulei', fennel,and carraway, the rinds of four lemons, and as many oranges, in- fuse all these in two gallons and a half of the best brandy, close the vessel hermeti- caily. In five days time, distil it in the Inin marie alembic, and draw from the above quantity five quarts of liqueur. Dissolve seven pounds of sugar in a gal- lon of pure river water ; add this syrup to the liqueur, filter, and bottle it. VINEGAR.—This is an acid liquor, prepared by a second fermentation from various liquors, such as wine cyder, perry, beer, mead, skimmed milk, &c. But the most common method of making it, in England, is from malt, and the pro- cess is as follows :—infuse a quantity of malt in hot water for an hour and a half, then pour it into a cooler. As soon as the infusion is sufficiently cold, put it into deep tuns, add yeast to it, and leave it to ferment for four or five days ; after which put the liquor into barrels, in a room heated with stoves, so that a mo- derate warmth maybe ke;)t up for six weeks, and the fermentation continue regularly. By the end of that time tlie whole will be completely soured, and must now be changed into other barrels; lay a tile on tiie bung-holes to keep out the wet, but not so close as to prevent a free circulation of air, and then place them in the open air for four or five months, according as tlie weather is warm or otherwise ; during the whole of this period, the fermentation proceeds, and at the end, the vinegar is nearly done, 'i'he next operation is this : the vinegar is poured into large vessels, called rape- tuns, to which there are false bottoms covered with rape, that is, the refuse of raisins, or other fruit, from which wine has been made; fill one of these tuns en- tirely with the vinegar, and anotherabout three fourths full, and every day take a portion of the liquor out of the fullest barrel, and put it into the other, until the vinegar is in a fit state to be drawn oil'; when it must be closely barrelled. Vinegar may also be made in much smaller quantities for domestic purposes; the materials of various kinds, with the addition of sugar ; raisins, currants, and ripe gooseberries, however, are the prin- cipal ; sometimes it is made from brown sugar, and water alone. The proporr tions are the same as those necessary for strong wine ; make the barrel about three fourths full, add a toast covered with yeast, put in the bung very loosely, and place the barrel where it will be exr posed to the sun, or, if it be winter, near the fire. The fermentation should be moderate and constant till the vinegar is complete ; then draw it off clear, give it a boil, and when quite cold, strain and bottle it. Vinegar is obtained from wine, by mix- ing with the latter its own flowers, or ferment, and its tartar reduced to powr der, and put into a vinegar or any other cask; if the latter, it must be placed in a warm situation, full of the steam from vinegar; in either case the liquor should be stirred frequently ; the second fermentation will speedily com- mence; it will become healed, and turn acid by degrees, and in a short time the vinegar will be produced. It is commonly supposed that wine which has become acid, will produce ex- cellent vinegar; this, however, is a mis- taken idea, for the stronger and better the quality of the wine, the stronger and better will be the vinegar. The French have several methods of making vinegar, which are .'ubjoined. The vinegar makers of Orleans pour the wine, of which they intend to make their vinegar, into casks, at the bottoms of which are close gratings of lime twigs; these serve to clarify the wine, as the lees adhering to the twigs, leave the liquor perfectly clear. They then pro- cure a number of casks, each containing a hundred gallons, either new or which have previously contained vinegar; these are set upright, and in the top of every one is bored a hole, two inches in diame- ter, these are kept constantly open ; ti c last mentioned casks are called Mothers ; pour into all of them twenty five gallons of boiling vinegar; to this, in a week 's time, add three gallons of wine, drawn from the first mentioned casks; continue to add the wine, nt intervals of a week, until the Mothers are quite full; then leave them for a fortnight, at the end ofV IN V 10 ( 498 ) which period they generally draw oflFlhe vinegar, taking care always to leave the Mothers half full, at least, and then to fill them with wine as before. The method of proving when the vinegar is fit for use, is, by plunging a stave into it; if on taking it out, a white line is perceptible on the end of it, the vinegar is quite ready. The place where the casks are kept should be very airy, and in the winter time, by means of stoves, the tempei ature should be raised to eighteen degrees of Reaumur. Paris vinegar varies from the above, and the process is very simple. A large quantity of wine lees is put into coaree sacks, and laid in tubs, which are placed one upon another to form a kind of press; by means of a screw, every drop of wine is gradually squeezed from the lees; this operation cannot be performed in less time than a week. The wine thus ex- tracted is putinto casks ; in the headings a hole is made, as above, which holes are left constantly open; in summer time the casks so filled are placed in the sun, and, generally speaking, the vinegar is fit for use in a fortnight. In the winter, the fermentation will last double the time, and must be assisted by artificial warmth. It sometimes happens that the liquor heats to so great a degree that the hand cannot be borne in it; in this case, the progress of the fermentation must be checked by adding more wine, until it proceeds more regularly. When the vinegar is made, put it into casks, which have the beecii twigs at the bottom, as above mentioned ; let it remain a fort- night, by which lime it will be sufficiently fermented to draw oil' into the casks for keeping it. Another very simple method is also practised in France; a few quarts are drawn from a barrel of excellent vinegar, and an equal quantity of very clear white wine is put into the barrel, close the bung lightly, and keep it in a place where the heat is moderate and regular. In a month’s time draw off the same quan- tity as above, and pour in an equal por- tion of white wine. A barrel of good vinegar will thus afford a constant sup- ply for a length of time without leaving the slightest deposit. ViNEOAn in Balls.— Gather bramble berries when half ripe, dry them, and then beat them to a powder ; make it up into balls with strong white vinegar, about the size of nuts ; dry them very dry, and keep them in boxes; when wanted, take some wine, or a little stale beer, dissolve a ball in it, and then make use. of it. ^ ^ , Vinegar /’;v'/if«n«itT.*-Take tarragon, savory, civet, shalot and garlic, of each three ounces, a handful of mint and balm tops; dry them all well, and put them into a jar with two gallons of the best vinegar; cover the jar, and place it where it will be exposed to the sun for a fortnight; then draw it off, press the dregs well, filter and bottle it. Cork the bottles tight. VIOLETS Candied. — Pick off the green stalks from some double violets; boil some sugar to sovffle; put in the vio- lets, and keep them in till tlie sugar again ho\\s, [Q sovffle; then rub the sugar against the aides ol the pan until it is white ; stir all together till the sugar leaves the violets, and then sift and dry them. VlOLETS to Rock Candy. — Pick the leaves off the violets ; then boil some of the best, and finest sugar to sovffle, pour it into a candying-pan made of tin, in the form of a dripping-pan, about three inches deep; then sirew the violet le.aves as thick as possible on the top, and put it into a hot stove, in which let it remain for ten days; when it is hard candied, break a hole in one corner of it, and drain off all the syrup ; break it out, and place it in heaps upon a tin to dry in a stove. Violets, Conserve o/.*—Take a quar- ter of a pound of early violets, picked; bruise them in a mortar; boil two pounds of sugar to casse, take it off, put in the pulp, and mix them together over the fire, and when the sugar bubbles up, pour the conserve into the moulds. Violet Drops.*—Take a certain quan- tity of syrup of violets, which mix with an equal portion of water; use this mix- ture, and make your drops precisely as directed. You may, if you please, per- fume it with oil of violets, but that is not necessary, as the syrup imparts suffi- cient odour. (See Orange-Jlotrer Drops.) ViohET Drops.—Take the juice of six lemons, mix with it some finely sifted powdered sugar, and two spoonsful of essence of violets, and colour it of a fine blue colour; mix the whole well toge- ther, and dry it over the fire, the same as all others, and drop them off a knife on paper, the usual size of drops; let them stand till cold, be careful that your mixture is not too tliin ; when the drops are cold, put them into papei-ed boxes. Violets, Marmalade of.*—Take three pounds of violets, and four pounds of su- gar, put the former into a mortiir and liruise themto a pulp ; in the meantime boil the sugar to sovffle, then add the llowers; stir them together, add two pounds of apple marmalade, and when it has boiled up a few times, put the niar- malnde into pots. VlOLETS, Syrup of.*—Pound very lightlyW AL WAF I in a Tnarble rnortar, and with a wooden pestle, one pound of picked violets; warm gradually a glass, or enrthenivare vessel with asmiil! opening, into which put the pounded flowers, and pour over them two pounds of boiling water; close the vessel hermetically, and place it on hot ashes, renewing them when necessary, to keep up an equal temperature for twelve hours; after that time pass the whole through a close cloth, squeezing it well; let it stand fur half an hour; then pour it oft’ very carefully, that all the sediment may remain at the bottom : weigh it, and the above quantities will have yielded seventeen ounces; put into a matrass two pounds of crushed sugar with the infusion, close the matrass tight, and set it in the bain marie, over a mo- derate fire; shake it occasionally to ac- celerate the dissolution of the sugar, and when perfectly dissolved, let the fire go out and the matrass cool gradually. When cold, pour the syrup into bottles. VOL AU VENT.*—Take three quar- ters of a pound of puft’-paste, give it six turns, roll it out to a tolerable thickness, and take care that it is equally thick all over ; lay a very thin piece of common paste on a baking tin, put the puff-paste on it, cut it to the size and shape of the dish it is to be served in ; make a mark all round the top, at an inch and half from the edge, dwez, and decorate the aides and top according to taste, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, take . out the inside, as marked, replace it in the oven to dry a little, and then fill your Fol an vent with such ragoxtts or fruits as may be directed. W. WAFERS.* — Take a pint of good cream, half a pound of sifted flour, half a pound of powder sugar, and two drachms I of orange-flower wafer. Beat the cream ’ with the flour, a little at a time, until ' both are mixed perfectly smooth and free from lumps, then add the other articles ; ■ and as much more cream as will make the ' paste nearly as thin as milk; make the ! iron hot, dip a feather in some melted ‘ butter, and rub the iron over with it; ' put on the iron about a spoonful and a r half of the pa‘<te, press them a little • gently, and place tlie iron on a stove ; ' open the iron a little frequently, to see 1 if it be done ; when one side is baked, : turn the iron, and do the other. The r' wafers should only be lightly celoured. I Take them from the mould carefully with a knife. Wafeiis, d VAllemandc.*—Blanch a t pound of sweet almonds, and cut them ' into very thin slices ; put them in a basin ( 499 ) with three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and two pinches of crisped orange- flowers, mix them together with white of egg. Rub some wafer paper over with white wax, and a little sweet oil ; spread the preparation over it as thin as pos- sible, and strew chopped pistachios on the surface; put them into a rather hot oven. When about half done, take them out, cut them into squares, replace them in the oven a moment, and then roll them on a stick; as soon as they are cold, lay them on a sieve, keep them covered. Wafers, en Cwwefs.*—Three ounces of butter, the yolks of three eggs, a quart of water, three quarters of a pound of powder sugar, and the same of flour. Melt the butter, then put to it the eggs (well beaten), sugar, flour, and the water, a little at a time, to prevent any lumps. Make your wafers as above directed, and whilst hot, twist them round like horns. Wafers {German).*—Take seventeen ounces of sifted flour, and half a pint of good yeast, which make into a paste, with as much warm milk as will make it run from the spoon freely, without being too clear ; then put it into a warm place. When it has risen well, add to it the yolks of fourteen eggs well beaten, the whiles whipped to a snow, and the grated rind of two lemons. Tlie whole being well mixed, pour over it seventeen ounces of fresh butter melted, but not too hot; stir it gently with a wooden spoon, and put the preparation again into a warm place to rise a second time; when it has risen sufficiently, and your pan quite hot, mb the latter with butter, fill it with the paste, set it over a brisk fire, and fry your wafers; make both sides equally brown ; when done, sprinkle them wdth powder sugar (and cinnamon, it you like), and serve them hot. Be careful in taking out the paste to fill the pan, not to disturb, nor to plunge the spoon into the preparation, when not using it; the upper part of the paste should be taken oft'very gently, and the spoon laid across the top of the vessel; if these precautions be not attended to, the good appearance of the wafers will be destroyed. Wafers, d VItalienne.*—Take eight eggs, fourteen ounces of powder sugar, a pound of flour, six ounces of cream, tlie same of milk, an ounce of orange flowers, and the rind of a lemon grated. Beat the eggs with the sugar and flour first; then add the cream, milk, and other materials, by degrees; mix them well, and take cure there are not the slightest lumps. Make the wafers as directed. WALNUTS, in Branrfy.*—Take your walnuts for this purpose, when sufli- ciently young for a pin to penetrateW A L ( 500 ) W A L them ; let them be fresh gathered; peel and throw them into cola water; then boil them in some water, with a small quantity of alum, and the juice of a lemon to prevent their turning black. When they are enough done, put them again into cold water. Boil some clarified sugar to pelit lisse, and (having previ- ously drained) pour this syrup over the walnuts ; repeat this operation three succeeding days ; the last time, however, boil the sugar to /a nappe ; the following day draw the fruit well, and then put it carefully into bottles; add to the syrup two thirds more brandy, strain the liqueur, and pour it to the walnuts. Cork the bottles tightly. Walnut Ketchup.*—Thoroughly well bruise one liundred and twenty young walnuts ; put to them three quarters of a pound of t-alr, and a quart of good wine vinegar ; stir them every day for a fort- night ; then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and set it aside ; put to the husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stand all night; then strain and squeeze them as before, adding the liquor which is obtained from them to what was put aside the preced- ing day, and add to it one ounce and a quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, half an ounce of nutmegs bruised, or sliced, half an ounce of ginger, and live drachms of mace, and boil it for half an hour ; then strain it off'from the apices, and bottle it for use. . Walnut Ketchup, for Fish Sauce.— Take a quart of walnut pickle, add to it a quarter of a pound of anchovies, and three quarters of a pint of red port, and let it boil till reduced to one-third; then str.nin it, and when cold, put it into small bottles, and keep them closely corked. Walnuts of Marchpane.*— Take a piece of marchpane paste, into which work a little cinnamon, and bole arnieni- cum (both in powder), but of the latter only a small quantity, as there should be but a very slight red tinge; when equally coloured, roll out the paste to the thick- ness of half an inch. Have ready two moulds of pear-tree wood of two halves of a walnut shell, into which nut small pieces of the paste ; press them down with the finger that the marks may be con- veyed to the nastc ; cut oil’ all which comes above the edges of the mould, and then turn them out (the paste must be well sprinkled with flour, to prevent its sticking to the moulds) ; when you liave as many walnut shells as you wish, place them the hollow side downwards,on paper; leave them thus for three or four days, and then put them into a cool oven lor a quarter of an hour; if put into too warm an oven the shells will burst, and be too deep coloured. In the meantime boil some sugar to a syrup, with a little water; when the sweet- meats are done, wash the outer part of them with this syrup, by means ol a hair pencil ; replace them in the - oven a minute to dry ; then fill each shell with compote of appjes, raspberries, or any other fruit; moisten the edges w'ith gum, and stick them together. These imita- tive walnuts, if carefully done, bear a close resemblance to the real ones, are of a delicious flavour, and will keep a long time in a dry place. Walnut Pickle. — Put a hundred of large double r/alnuts into a stone jar; take four ounces of black pepper, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of ginger, one ounce of cloves, a pint of mustard seed, two cloves of garlic, and four handsful of salt; bruise the spice and mustard seed, and boil them in a.s much vinegar as is suflicient to cover the tvalnuts ; when cold, pour it over the walnuts ; in two days boil the pickle again, pour it to the walnuts immedi- ately, cover them close, and repeat this for three, days. Walnut Pickle.*—Lay your walnuts in water, and change it everyday lor the space of three weeks to extract all the bitterness from them ; make a pickle with spice, salt, and vinegar ; let it boil a quarter of an hour, and pour over the walnuts. Walnuts, Preserved with Sugar.* — G.ather the walnuts when they have at- tained their full size, but before they become hard, they should be in that state that a pin will penetrate them. Prick each walnut all over with a large pin, put them into cold water, and leave them for two hour.s; then pour that water away,and fill the pan with fresh; let the walnuts remain thus for four days, changing the water every twenty-four hours, to take out all the bitterness. At the end of the time change the water, and set them on the fire; as .«oon as they are soft, take them out carefully with a skimmer, put them again into cold water, and leave them four or five days, chang- ing the water as before every twenty- four hours. At the expiration of that time place the walnuts in a large glazed pan.Then take the common sugar; even the refuse of what has been clarified will be good enough; boil this with some water, and run the. syrup through a jelly bag ; wash the pan that it was Iwiled in well, then piit in the filtered syrup, and boil it to lissf; let it stand, and when about half cold, pour it over the walnuts, and leave them ; next day drain oH the50] W AL WAT syrup, boil it again, and when half cold, pour it on the fruit; repeat tliis every twenty-four hours during eight or nine days, increasing the degree daily, so that on the last day it may be at perlc ; A sntall quantity of coarse sugar should be added at every boiling, as the fruit ought to be covered with tlie syrup. On the ninth day, put a few cloves and some cinnamon in a glass of water for twenty- four hours ; then cut each clove into four pieces, lengtliwise ; cut the cinnamon also into bits about the same size, take the walnuts out of the syrup, and stick four pieces of clove, and as many of cin- namon, into every walnut; in the mean- while, bail the syrup to gi-and lisse ; and when half cold, pour it over the fruit and leave it; in twenty-four hours drain ofl‘ the syrup, and set it on the tire for the last time; as suon as it begins to boil, put in the fruit, let them boil up together about a dozen times, and then take them from the fire. Make the bottles quite hot, put in the walnuts one by one, with a skimmer, pour the syrup on (they should be quite covered with it), and when cold, cork them tight, and tie a parchment over every one. These walnuts may be eaten imme- diately, or they will keep for ten years ; but, as in the course of time the fruit sucks up the syrup, they should be filled up,when required,with a syrup,made with coarse sugar, boiled with some water. Walnuts (Ratafia of).—This is gene- rally made with fresh ripe walnuts; when thoroughly cleansed and peeled, split two dozen of walnuts, with the shells, for the proportion of three quarts of brandy ; and let it infuse in a cool place about a month, sljrring the vessel now and then; then strain the brandy off, and put it into the vessel again, with a little cinna- mon, coriander, a few cloves, and two pounds of clarified sugar ; infuse this as long again; then strain it as usual. It will be the better for keeping. Walnuts, Ratafia of.*—Take a pound of very young walnuts; if a pin will not pass through easily, they are too old ; pound them well, and infuse them for six weeks in two quarts of brandy, with half a drachm of cinnamon, and eighteen grains of mace. At the end of that period, strain the infusion, and mix with it a pound of sugar, dissolved in half a pint of water; let it remain six weeks longer, and then filter, and bottle it. Walnut (Vine.—To every gallon of water, put two pounds of brown sugar, and a pound of honey, and boil them for half an hour: be carelul to skim it clean. Put into a tub a handful of walnut leaves to every gallon, and pour the liquor upon them; let it stand all night, then take out the leaves, and put in half a pint of yeast. Let it work fourteen days; beat it four or five times a day, to take off its sweetness, and then stop up the cask. It should stand six months belore it is used. Wastrefiche.* — Prepare some par- sley roots and leaves, as directed for sauce pluche; cut the red part of car- rots as thin as possible ; cut also the rind of lemon, or bitter oranges; scald them all together for about five minutes, and then let them cool; when cold, put them into a stewpan with some fish-broth ; as soon as done, add some butmr, or vinegar sauce, stir it in, and use it as directed. WATER-CRESSES Silewerf. — Pick and wash twelve bunches of water- cresses ; let them be boiled tilt they are half done, take them out, and drain and squeeze them quite dry ; then chop and put them into a stewpan, add cullis, cream, salt, pepper, and a little flour, but only a small quantity of each; let the whole stew gently ten minutes, and serve them to table with fried bread all round the dish. WATER Cordial.*—Infuse for a.week, the rinds of fifteen very sound lemons, half an ounce of cinnamon, find four ounces of coriander seeds, crushed, in a gallon and a half of brandy, and a quart of water; then distil it. Dissolve three pounds and a half of sugar in an equal quantity of pure river water; mix it with your liqueur, filter, and bottle it. Water Imperial.—Put into a large jug, or jar, two ounces of cream of tartar, with the juice of two lemons, and pour to these seven quarts of boiling water ; when cold, strain it through a very fine sieve, svieeten, and bottle it; it is fit for use on the following day. Water Souchy.—Slew a few flounders, some parsley leaves, and roots, thirty pepper corns, and a quart of water, till the flounders are stewed to pieces: pulp them through a sieve. Put the pulped fish into a stewpan, with the liquor they boiled in, some perch, tench, and some fresh leaves, and roots of parsley, and set it on the fire to simmer till all are done : then serve in a deep dish. Serve slices of brefid and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. Water Souchy.—Thoroughly cleanse some perch, or flounders ; put them into a stewpan with some cold water (suffi- cient for broth), a very little while wine vinegar, and some salt; let them boil gently for a quarter of an hour, carefully skimming, serve them with the liquor they were boiled in ; add to it some par- sley roots, neatly cut, trimmed, and ready 4vv II I W III 502 boiled, and strew over parsley, boiled of a nice ijreen, and serve bread and butter on a plate, to be eaten with the souchy. WELCH Rabbit. — Take a slice of bread, and toast it on both sides ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, lay it on the toast, brown it nicely with the salamander, rub some mustard over it, and serve as hot as possible. VVeocm Rabbit.*—Toast as many slices of bread as you may require; cut some Gloucester cheese into dice, and put it into a saucepan with a very small quan- tity of water, a little black, or cayenne pepper; when the cheese is melted, spread it over the toasts, and colour it with the salamander. . WHEATEARS-—Vick them, cut off the pinions at the first joint, draw out the inside; turn the feet close to the legs, and entwine one in the other; then run along skewer through the middle of the bodies of as many as you intend serv- ing, and fasten them on the spit. WHEY.*—Tut a very small portion of rennet into a qu.art of milk, and let it stand by the side of the lire until turned ; then serve it in a dish, with sugar and a little nutmeg, grated, and strewed over, or strain the liquor carefully from tlie curd, and serve quite clear. Whuv (Vinegar).—Put into some boil- ing milk as much vinegar as will make a small quantity quite clear; dilute it with hot water to an agreeable acid, and add a few lumps of sugar. You may, if you like it better, use lemon-juice, in- stead of vinegar. VYhev {fV/iite Wine).—Pour as much goxl raisin wine into a pint of boiling new milk, as will completely turn it, and make it look clear ; let it boil up. then set the saucepan on one side till the curd subsides; it must not be stirred. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of loaf sugar. WHITE PoL—Add to apint of cream, four eggs, beat up with a little salt, some sliced nuttneg, and plenty of sugar ; slice very thin the crumb of a small roll; put it into a dish, and pour the cream, fkc. over it; add a few sun raisitis, previously boiled, and a little sweet butter, and put it into a moderate oven to bake. VVitiTE Pot {to make).*—IJeat up the yolks of eight, and the whites of four eggs, with two quarts of new milk, a little rose water, a nutmeg, gritted, and a nuar- ter of a pound of sugar; cut a small roll into very thin slices, lay them in a dish, and pour the milk, &c. over them ; put a bit of butter on the top, and set it in the oven ; it will take half an hour baking. WHITINGS.—lu choosing whitings. be careful that the skin has a silvery ap.< pearance, that the body is firm, and the fins stiff; these are sure proofs of its freshness. Whitings, d VAnglaise.*—Va\.\n\a% saucepan two spoonsful of oil,half a lemon sliced (the pips and rind taken off), salt, and pepper, two glasses of white wine, the same of water, and let them boil nearly a quarter of an hour; then put the whitings, properly cleaned, cook them is the above, and serve with a sauce made as follows : blanch a clove of garlic, and beat it with the back of a knife, put it with parsley, shalots, and two glasses of champagne, into a stew- pan ; let it boil five minutes, then add some butler, rolled in flour, salt, and pepper ; stir it over the fire till smooth, then serve. Whitings Boiled.— Whitings should be boiled in the same manner as cod, haddock, or any other fish; serve with anchovy sauce, or ketchup, and butter. Whitings Broiled.—Wash the whit- ings in salt and water; dry them well with a cloth, flour them, lay them on the gridiron, and broil them over a very clear tire; serve with shrimp, or oyster sauce. Whitings, Dried.—To dry whitings, you must choose the largest; take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and cleanse the blood from the back l>one. Wipe them very dry, and put salt into them, and into the sockets of the eyes; let them lay for a night on a board; then hang them up in a dry place, they will be tit for eating in three or four days; when wanted to be served, skin, and rub them over with egg, and strew tnem with bread-crumbs. Lay them before the fire, and b.aste them with butter until sufficiently brown; serve with egg sauce. Whitings, Forcemeat Balis. — Bone as neatly as possible either large or small whitings; scrape the flesh, and pound it in a mortar ; boil some bread-crumbs in cream, until the liquor is quite soaked ; then pour it into the mortar, add a good bit of butter, a little chopped parsley, half a shalot, salt, pepper, the. yolks of three eggs, and the whites well beaten ; mi.\ the whole well together, have a stewpan of slock on a brisk fire, and when it boils fast, add to it a glass of white wine ; take a small quantity of the farce, form it into a ball, and put it mUi the stock, and so continue till all is used; lake care to turn them about; they re- quire but a few minutes boiling; take them out one by one, according as you threw them in, and lay them on a sieve to drain. Serve with a good cullis sauce, with a little lemon-juice. . IYhitino Fiied, — Cleanse, and skinW II I (m) W I N them, turn tlieir tails into their moutlis, securing them with a small ske.ver ; do them all over with etrg, and bread- crumbs, and fry them quickly in boijing lard. Serve with anchovy, or shrimp sauce, in a boat. Wliitiiigs are frequently served to gar- nish salmon and cod. Whitings, Fried.* — Take as many whitings as you may require ; cleanse, scale, and wipe them dry; then run them through the eyes with a skewer, soak them well in milk ; flour, .and fry them of a nice colour. Serve them on a nap- kin. VVhitings, with Herbs.—Cleanse, and skin them ; cut oft' the heads, then put them between two dishes, the under one well rubbed with butter, and all sorts of sweet herbs, chopped fine, and strewed over the fish, and let them simmer over hot ashes, put hot ashes also on the top ; turn the fish once or twice ; when done, place them on a dish; pour the sauce and all the sweet herbs over them. Whitings Minced, d Ift Creme.—Take the fillets off the whitings, and toss them in egg, as directed in the receipt for Fillets of fVhitings Fried ; then with your hands carefully separate the small flakes, putting them as you do them into a stewpan ; when alt is done, pour over them a good cream sauce ; when wanted to be served, toss it gently over a mode- rate fire, and put it in a dish ; be careful not to use a spoon, as it will break the flakes, and spoil the looks of the dish. Whitings, with Satcce.—Make a brine with salt and water, sprigs of parsley, shalots, bits of roots, and onions ; let the whole boil t<'gether for half an hour, then strain it, and boil the whitings in it, adding one-third part of milk ; when done, drain them : make a sauce with a bit of butter, a little flour, two wlude green shalots, pepper, and salt; make this tolerably thick with cream ;take out the shalots, and serve the rest over the whitings. Whitings {Fillets ff) Fried-—Take the skin oft' very neatly from the fillets, cut them in two, have leady an egg, beaten up with pepper, and salt; toss the fillets in this, and a lew minutes before serving, take them out of the egg, shake them in flour, fry them quick that they may not be greasy, lay them neatly round the dish, and serve a butter satice, made very hot in the centre, with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and a little glaze mixed in it; garnish witli sliced pars- ley. W^HiTiNG {Fillets of) GrilUo, with Sharp Sauce.—Cut the fillets, and toss them in egg, the same as in the receipt fur Fillets of JVhitings Fried; shake them in bread-crumbs, and as you do them, lay them on paper; have ready some clarified butter, clip them in, then brend_ them a second time, lay them on agridiron, over aclearfire of wood ashes, broil them of a nice colour on each side, then arrange them neatly round a dish, and pour into the centre some consomme, made very strong, add the juice of nearly half a lemon, and a little pepper andsalb mixed in it. WIDGEON.—They should betaken up with the gravy in, baste with butter, and sprinkle a little over them before they are taken up; pour a good gravy over them, and serve with shalot sauce in a boat. WiiiGEONS, Collared.—^one the wid- geons, cut them in halves, and marinate them for twelve hours in a little white wine, with cloves, mace, pepper, and salt; then take them out, dry them, sea- son them with pepper, and chopped sage; then dip them in egg, and l.ny them on their sides; add a couple of onions, chopped up; then roll them into collars, boil them in good stock, white wine, whole pepper, and mace; they must be kept in this pickle. Widgeon Hashed.—Half ronst them ; when served to table, slice the breast, strew on pepper and salt, pour on a little red wine, and squeeze a little lemon- juice over; put some gravy to this, set the plate over a lamp, and let it remain over the lamp till done. WINE.* — The difterent methods of making English wines having already been mentioned under the several arti- cles of which they are composed, little further need be said on the subject. The following is a list of the fruits most com- monly used for making wines in this country;— Gooseberry. Currant—red, white, and black. Cherry. Grape. Damson. Sloe. Strawberiy. Raspberry. Mulberry. Blackberry. Elderberry. Grape, and the foreign fruits. Raisin. Orange. Lemon. Of these, the best, according to general opinion, are of our own fruits, the goose- bcrry,anil currant ;and of the others, the raisin, and orange. Quinces are sometimes made into( 504 ) woo woo nine,but witii litile success: from the resemblance to the apple and pear, it is better adapted to the making of cyder. The principal defect in the manufac- ture of British wines, is the great quan- tity of sugar generally employed. If a much larger proportion offruit were used, the wine would not only possess a more decided character, but be of a higher quality, and of a much more wholesome nature. Wine {Madeira) Sauce.*—Take a tea- spoonful of flour, and a preserved green lemon, cut into dice, mix them with a glass of Madeira wine, and a little con- somme, add an ounce of butter, some salt and nutmeg; set these on a very hot stove to boil for a quarter of an hour; then take it oflj put in a quarter of a pound of butter, set it again on the fire, stirring constantly till the butter is melted. WOODCOCKS.—The greatest possi- ble care should be taken, in picking of these birds, to handle them as little as possible, on account of the skin being so particularly tender, and when broken it spoils the beauty of the bird. When picked, cut off' the pinions at the first joint, press the legs close to the side, through which, and the body, pierce the beak of tlie bird; then cioss the feet, and lay a slice of bacon over the breast. Woodcocks and snipes may be dressed according to the same, rules. Woodcocks.— Take a pound of lean beef, cut it into pieces, and pat it into a saucepan, vvith_ two quarts of water, an onion stuck with cloves, two blades of mace, and some whole pepper; boil all these together till reduced to half; then strain it off into another saucepan ; draw the woodcocks, and lay the trail in a plate ; put the woodcocks into the gravy, and letlheni boil in it fortwelve minutes; while they are boiling, mince the trail and liver very small ; put them into a small saucepan, with a little mace; add four or five spoonsful of the gravy the woodcocks are boiled in ; then take the crumb of a stale roll, rub it fine into a dish placed before the fire, and put to the trail, in the small saucepan, half a pint of red port, a bit of butter, rolled in flour, set it on the fire, ami shake it round till the butter is melted ; then put in the bread-crumbs, and shake the saucepan round; lay tlie woodcocks in the dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Woodcocks.—These are dressed much in the same manner as woodcocks d la Duchesse, only that truffles are added to the lorccmeat. Woodcocks d la Buc/tescc.—Split six woodcocks down the back, and take out all the inside to make a farce, with two pounded anchovies, half a spoonful of capers, parsley, shalots,and mushrooms, all chopped very small, and mixed with a good bit of butter, a little scraped ba- con, the yolks of two eggs, pepper, and salt; put this into the woodcocks, sew them up close, and braise them with a few slices of veal, and one slice of ham; cover them with thin slices of bacon; add a glass and a half of red wine, and a few spoonsful of ctillis: when done, strain, and skim the sauce, and thicken it with butter and flour. Woodcocks Farced.—Split the wood- cocks at the back, take out all the inside, and mix it with a liitle scraped bacon, chopped parsley, shalots, pepper, aud salt; stuff'the woodcocks with this, and sew them up; wrap them in slices of bacon, and over that, paper; then put them down to roast; serve with what sauce or ragmityon think best. Woodcocks d la Franqaise. — Pick, draw, and truss them ; lard their breasts with broad pieces of bacon ; roast them, and serve them upon toasts dipped in verj'uice. Woodcocks Minced en Crouslades.*— Take the meat from some cold roasted woodcocks, clear away all the sinews and sk'n, and mince it as fine as possible. Pound the intestines (except the gizzard) and remnants of the birds. Put .a glass of Champagne wine, and three shalots into a saucepan ; set it on the fire, and when it has boiled up a few times, add four ladlesful of reduced espagnole, a bit of glaze of game; boil these, aud then put in the pounded meat; stir them well to- gether, taking care it does not boil; strain the puree, and keep it hot. Make nine heart-shaped croutons, as usual (see Fillets en canapes), and when cleai ed out, put the mince to the puree, mix them to- gether with some butter, and then fill the hearts with it, and dish them, tl c ' points inwards; lay a poached egg on each, atid serve then>. Woodcocks in a Minute.*—Put a brace of woodcocks into a frying-pan, with some butter, shred shalots. grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; set the pan on a fierce fire, and fry the woodcocks lightly for .seven or eiglit minutes; then arid the juice of two lemons, half a gl.ass of white wine, and some rasping.s; and leave them on the fiie till tlie sauce has boiled up once ; tlien servo altogether. Woonci^CK Pie {Odd). — When the woodcocks are picked, take out tb.e en- trails, .ami put them aside, and truss the birds, as for roasting; fl.iitcn the bre.ast- bone, and broil then over a dear char-( 505 ) woo woo coal flic : let them get cold, then Inrd them all over, pound some bacon in a mortar, mix with it the livers of the birds, pounded also, witli two or three leaves of Bweet basil; mince the entrails very fine, and mix thena with the rest of \\w farce, raise the pie, lay some of the farce at the bottom of it, and put the rest into the woodcocks, lay them in the pie, put between them some pounded bacon, mixed with fresh butter, seasoned with a little mace, nutmeg, and salt; then lay in a nice veal cutlet, and over that some slices of bacon, cut very thin ; put on the cover, and set it in the oven furthree or four hours, according to the number of birds; serve cold. For another way of making Woodcock Pie, follow the directions given for Snipe Pie. Woodcocks, Potted.—They are done in the same manner as pigeons are potted. Woodcocks Ptfree of,en Croutons.*— Take the meat and insides of three or four cold roasted woodcocks, and pound it with nearly a quarter of a pound of bacon, and some sweet herbs; put the bones and other hits of the birds into a Stewpan, with a glass of white wine, some parsley leaves, a bay-leaf, a clove, two glasses of stock, and six dessert spoonsful of veloute, reduce these to half, rub the whole through a bolting cloth, and when cold, pour it over the pounded meat, and pass thep«rcethrough a sieve, as usual; if it will not pass easily, add a little eonsonivii to it; put this puree into a saucepan, and keep it hot. Prepare some croutons as directed for fillets en canapes (only making them an inch and a half thick, and of a pointed oval shape), and when the middle is cleared away, fill the space with the puree, and serve the croutons. Woodcocks, au Restaurant.* — Take a leash of woodcocks ; take the trails from two of the finest, with which mince, and mix some calf’s liver, and stuff them; truss all three, and roast them ; when the bird which has the trail in, ■ is about two tliirds done, take it uo, pound it, bones and all, and boil it in equal quantities of stock and red Bur- gundy, with salt, pepper, and shalots; when it has boiled half an hour, rub it through a sieve, and serve it in the dish with the roasted woodcocks. Woodcocks Roasted.—lHhey sliould be roasted with a toist under to receive the trail, which must be served umler them in the dish. Serve with melted butter, and gravy for sauce. Woodcocks, Salmis (/."'—Take three cold roasted woodcocks; cut them up. trim the pieces, and put all the best parts into a stewpan ; put the rem- nants into a mortar, with a pinch of pars- ley leaves, six shalots, a bay-leaf, garlic if liked, and pepper ; pound these well, and put them into another siewpan, with a little melted butter ; set tliem on the fire for about ten minutes, then add a glass of while wine, three ladiesful of consomme, and six of espagnole, reduce this to half, rub it through a bolting sieve, and pour it over the woodcock ; make the whole hot without boiling, and serve, it with sippets in the dish. Woodcock, Salmis de. Table of.*—Cut up the woodcock on the table, and put the pieces on a dish, which place on a stand, with a lampur.der it; add pepper, salt, shred shalots, nearly a glass of white wine, the juice of three lemons, and a bit of butter; strew rasping.s over, and boil slowly for ten minutes, stirring occasion- ally. Use spirits of wine for your lamp. Woodcock Sauce.— Pound the bones and livers of roasted woodcocks, and put them into a stewpan, with two spoonsful of cullis, and two spoonsful of red port; reduce it to the consistence of a sauce, and then strain it; when strained, add pepper, salt, and the juice of two oranges. Woodcocks Stewed. — Slit them, hnt do not take out tlie insides ; fry them in melted bacon, just to brown them ; then put them into a stewpan, with some good gravy, salt, pepper, and some mushroom powder; add a little lemon-juice, and let the whole stew gently till done. Woodcocks, en Swfowf.—Make aforce- meat with some veal, as much beef-suet, chopped and beaten in a mortar, an e^ual quantity of crumbs of bread, with a little beaten mace, pepper, and salt, some par.tley, and a few sweet herbs; mix all up with the yolk of egg; half roast your woodcocks; then lay some of the force- meat round a small baking-dish ; chop the trail, and strew it all over the disii, then lay in the woodcocks ; put into a stewpan, truffles, morels, and mush- r(3oms, a parboiled sweetbread ent into pieces; let them stew together, boat it up with a little white wine; and then put lliem to some good gravy, and keep stirring it until of a proper consistence; set it to cool, and then pour it over tlic woodcocks, and lay the yolks of hard boiled eggs all about; work up the re- mainder of the forcemeat, and roll it out like paste, and lay over the birds sauce and eggs; close the edges, wash it over with yolks of eggs, and set it in the oven; it will take half an boui baking ; serve it to table very hot. Woodcocks {Tureen of).*—Take ns many wo.idcocks as your tureen will re- 2 X I 1( 506 ) YEL woo guire, take out the trails, and make them into a farce, with some pounded bacon, butter, sweet herbs, and anchovies; stuff your birds with this farce, and place them in a braising-pan between slices of bacon and veal; moisten with half a glass of white wine ; close the pan as tight as possible, and braise them for five hours over a slow fire. Put the woodcocks into the tureen, and strain the liquor over them. Woodcocks {Fillets of) en Canape.*— Take the fillets of two brace of woodcocks, put them into a tossing-pan, sprinkle Eepper and salt, and pour some melted utter over them. Then take the inside of the woodcocks, (except the gizzard), a piece of bacon the size of an egg, a little parsley, and slialot; chop these small, and mix with them pounded spice, pep- per, and salt. Take some slices of bread half an inch thick, and divide them into pieces rather larger, but the same shape as the fillets : make a mark round each about the eighth of an inch from the edge, and fry them of a clear gold colour in butter; when done, scoop out the part marked, and put into the space thus left some of the above/aree, and either bake ^ or broil the crmtoms for a quarter of an hour; in the mean time toss up the fillets, and when ready to serve, lay one on each of the croutons, and send them to table, with a sauce made as directed for the Fillets with the addition of a bit of glaze. ■VVooDcocKS {Fillets of) d la Proven- gale.*—Prepare the fillets as directed for the Saute; season them with pepper, salt, four spices, and cover them with oil; add a clove of garlic pounded, toss them up, and then keep them hot. Put some oil also to the remains of the birds, a clove of garlic, a pinch of parsley leaves, two cloves, six shalots, and a bay-leaf; when these have had a few turns, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a glass of white wine, three of stock, and reduce the sauce to half, take off' the fat, and strain it. Lay the fillets on a disn cn couronne, with a glazed crouton between each; put some lemon-peel, and juice, to the sauce, and pour it over. Woodcock of) Sautes.*—Take the fillets from three brace of woodcocks, cut them neady, and put them into a tossing-pan, witli salt, pepper, and a little rosemary in powder ; pour some melted butter over, ami set them on a very brisk fire, turn them as soon as one side is done, and tlo not let them be done ton much ; then drain, and lay them in a dish cn couronne, with a crouton between each fillet. Put the remnants of the birds into B stewpan, with half a glass of white wine, a bay-leaf, and a clove; sweat them down till reduced to a glaze, then add another half glass of white wine, a glass of stock, six ladiesful of espagnole, and let these reduce to half; then strain and pour it over the fillets, (which should b« kept hot), and serve. WORMWOOD Cr&me {Ligvettr).*- Distil in the bain-marie the zesics of two oranges, and half a pound of fresh gather- ed worrriwood tops, in a gallon of brandy, which will produce nearly half the quan- tity of liqueur. Dissolve four pounds of sugar in as many pints of filtered river water ; mix this syrup with the liqueur ; run it through a jelly-bag, and bottle it. y. YEAST {To Make).—Boil for half an hour two quarts of water, thickened with about three spoonsful of fine flour, and sweetened with nearly half a pound of brownsugar; when almost cold, put it into a jug, adding four spoonsful of fresh yeast; shake it well together, let it stand uncovered near the fire for a day, to fer- ment. There will be a thin liquor on tlie top, pour this off'; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. To make a half peck loaf you should use a quarter of a pint of the above. Yeast Dumplings.—Make a very light dough with yeast, the san»e as for bread, but with milk instead of water, add salt; set it by the fire, covered up in a pan, for half an hour, or an hour, to rise; in the mean time, set on the fire a large saucepan of hot water, and as soon as it boils, roll up the dough into small bails, and put them into the boiling water; keep them continually boiling for ten minutes, then take them out. and serve them immediately, with wine sauce over them. To ascertain nhether they are sufficiently boiled, stick a fork into one, and if it comes out clean, it is done enough. Some think the best manner of eat- ing (Item is by dividing them from the top by t.vo forks, as they Irecome heavy by their own steam, and eat them im- mediately with meat, or sugar and but- ter, or salt. YELLOW Glaze. * — Make a glaze, with a quarter of a pound of fine sti^r in po'vder, the white of an egg, to which add by degrees as much lemon juice as may be necessary; when sufficiently beaten up, (and the longer it is beaten the whiter it will be), add to it a small quantity of infusion of saffron, strained, tincl tlie yellow rind of one or two lemons grated on a piece of sugar, scraped offY O R (m) Z E S and pounded; take care, however, not to put too much of the latter, lest the glaze should be bitter. YORKSHIRE Pudding *—Mix four spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk and one egi? well beaten, acid a spoonful of salt, and a little ginger grated. But- ter the pan, and put in the mixture; when browned by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, that that may be browned also. It should be made in a square pan, and served to table cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon a dish. The richness of the pudding is increased according to the number of eggs you may choose to put in. Zests.—Zest (a term of art, used by confectioners) is the peel of oranges, le- mons, or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in small slips or zests, as thin as possible. 2X2EXPLANATION OJ^ some of the Terms made use (f in the foregoing Pages. Atelets—Small silver skewers. Baba—A French sweet yeast cake. Bain-Marie—See the Dictionauv. JBmquet—A bunch of parsley and scallions tied up to put in soups, &c. Bouquet garni, or Assaisonne—'V\i& same, witli tlie addition of cloves and anraa- tic herbs. Bourguignote—A ragoCit of truffles. Braise—See Dictionary. Brioche—A French yeast rake. Buisson (en)—A whimsical method of dressing up pastry, &c. Capilotade—A common hash of poultry. Civet—A hash of game or wild fowl. Compiegne—A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, &c. &c. Co?«^ofe—A fine mixed ragofit to garnish white poultry, &c.;also a method of stewing fruit with syrup for desserts. Compotier—A dish amongst the dessert service appropriated to the use of the compote. Couronne (en)—To serve any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. Court or short (to stew)—To reduce a sauce very thick. Croustade—Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to contain minces, &c. Croutons—Bread cut in various shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. Dorez—To wash pastry, Ssc. with yolk of egg well beaten. Dorure—Yolks of eggs heaien well. Entrees—Axe dishes served at the commencement, or during the first course of the dinner. Entremets—Small ornamental dishes, served in the second and third courses. Financicre-Axx expensive, highly-flavoured, mixed ragofit. Elan—^A French custard. Glaze, (to fall to a)—To reduce sauces till they become a jelly, and adhere to the meat. Glaze—Is usually made from reduced consomme, or juices from the bottoms of braised white meats ; it should be preserved in jelly-pots. Glaze, Glace, or Ice—Is composed of white of egg beaten with powder-sugar. Godiveau—A common veal forcemeat. Gras (aw)—This signifies that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. Gratin—A layer of some particular article is spread over a silver, or any other dish tliat will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it burns to it. Hors d’oeuvre—A small dish, served during the first course. Hatelets-'I'Iie same as Atelets. Lard (to) —Vo stick bacon, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, &c.; it is done by means of a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square, and hollow; the lardon is put into this hollow, tlie point is then inserted into the meat, and unbeing drawn out, leaves the lardon standing up in its proper place. ... - , - Lardons—The pieces into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of larding meat, &c. &c. . , . . Larding-pin—Ixn utensil by means of which meat, &c. is larded. Liaison—A finish with yolks of eggs and cream, for ragoflts and sauces. Madeleines—Cakes made of the same composition as pound-cakes. (aw)—Soups, &c. dressed without meat. Marinade—A prepared pickle fer meat, fish, &c.COOKERY TERMS EXPLAINED. 508 jl/'iSit—To cover completely. . . ^ Nouilles—An Italian paste, resembling macarnnijitisflat, insteatlof beingin pipe.<. /’oy/arfa—Bread soaked in milk, used principally for quenelles and line farces. Passer—To fry lightly. Pdte~A raised crust pie. Pode—A light braise for white meats. The difference between this and the braise is, tlia't in the former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be so much done as in the latter. Pota^e~Anoiher term for soup. Puree—Any meat, fish, or other article, boiled to a pulp, and rubbed through a sieve. Que/ielles—A fine farce ; it is generally poached when used. Salmi—A highly-seasoned hash. Saltier—To fry very lightly. Sabotiere, or Sorbetiere—A pewter or tin vessel, in which are placed the moulds containing the substance to be frozen. Tammy—A silk sieve. Towner, or Turn—To stir a sauce; also to pare and cut roots, vegetables, and fruits, neatly. Tourte—A puff- paste pie. Fanner—To take up satice, or other liquid, in a spoon, and turn it over quickly.510 ARTICLES IN SEASON The Asterisk * denotes the Months zvhen the Article opposite to which it is placed, is in Season.ARTICLES IN SEASON, 511ARTICLES IN SEASON 512 Dec. * * * * * * * Nov. * * * * * * •Vs o * * *- *• * *■ * ^!f * Sept. * * * * * August * * *- * * ¥ * * July. % *• ■5^ * * * * June. 1 * ^c- * * * May. * * * * April. ■3i^ * March. * ■5^ ♦ Feb. % * * * Jan. * ■Sts' * * y, y u fc. 75 1x5 ■V* < a J ■fi o E V5 2 as Cz] Q z. 5 lb X o lb o < •j3 X li3 ;d »w s b 1x3 X ji3 N X 5 •M* 5 'H w 2 5 ai M 2D CiD ■n O D O X Id :i^ < si •n a < ,K a a a <*►• a X D D -y' 7D y, o a 5 X 'x z; 2i 5 ;r X :d *o O < a < X O 55 5 •y* U3 X X C yifj Id X 3 X Id e! :d > a 5- Z. “5 c a < X > •NrfARTICLES IN SEASON 513514 ARTICLES IN SEASON, Dec. * * * * * Nov. * * * * * * * •ss o * * * * * * * * * * * *■ Sept. * * * * * * * * * * * Co * * * * * * * * * * July. * * * * * * * * * * Jun e| * * * * * * * * May. * * * * * * April. 1 * * * * * * * March. ■5{f * * * * ♦ * * Feb. 1 * * * * * * * * * * * Jan. * * * * * * * * * CO Cx3 ►t' u < iC a, m 3i < a 1/3 < 'j3 a. I o ai a a. 1 PHEASANTS , . | •J ■n 'Z o a /—X 5^ X) z; i ■fi -4 04 0. < t a z a a a a m as a > o a '/} a ■ • 3 X 1 POIATOES 1 POTATOES (Young) . 73 Z > < /3 Cz3 p 73 < D O' 73 a o z B O’ .3 X 22 23 < a: 3 is 'O H 5 «y*4 < CO 73 < 2t 73 a 5 X X 73 < 1 RHUBARB . . 1 3 o •0*ARTICLES IN SEASON. 515 Dec. ■ * * * * * * - # «■ # # Nov, 1 ' * * * * * * * # # o * . * * * * * Sept. * * * * * * • * CO S * * * * * * * * I July. * * * * * * * # June. * * * * * May. % * * * * * * / *- April. * * * # * * * % * March-^ * * * * * # * » Feb. * * * * * * # Jan. % * * * # * * * % * 1 1 SALLAD a -!< a a -51 V) I SALMON . 1 SALMON TROUT SALSIFY . 1 SAVORY 1 SAVOYS , 1 SCORZONERA 1 SHALOTS 1 SHRIMPS 1 SIBERIAN CRABS a Eh <! tf) CO CO Eh a w s 72 1 SNIPES 1 SOLES j SORREL 1 SPINACH M Eh 03 0.1 CO j SPROUTS 1 STRAIVBERRIES 1 STURGEONS 1 TARRAGON . . 1510 ARTICLES IN SEASON. LONDON; SIIACKELL and CO., joiinson’s-couiit, fleet-streetNEW WORKS PRlNTEn Foil HENRY COLBURN AND RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. THE FOOTMAN’S DIRECTORY, and BUT- LERS REMEMRANCER. By Thomas Cosnett. New Edition, with considerable additions and improvements. Price only 4s, 6d. “ The Footman’s Directory, or, Butler’s Remembrancer, contains a great deal of valuable information for the class of persons to whom it is addressed.” FRUITS AND FLOWERS. Second Edition, corrected and enlarged, in small 8vo., with six coloured Plates, price 5s. 6d. boards, 1. THE FLORIST’S MANUAL, or HINTS for the Construction of a GAY FLOWER GARDEN, with Directions for preventing the Depredations of Insects. By the Authoress of “ Bo- tanical Dialogues,” and “ Sketches of the Physiology of Vegetable Life.” 2. A HISTORICAL AND 'BOTANICAL ACCOUNT OF F.uits known in GREAT BRITAIN, with Directions for their Culture. By Heney Phillips, F.H.S. Thijid Edition, enlarged. 8VO. 10s. 6d. Also, by the same Author, 5. HISTORY OF CULTIVATED VEGETABLES, 'comprising their Botanical, Medicinal, Edible, and Chemical Qualities, Natural History, &c. Second Edition, in 2 vols. 8vo. PRACTICAL ECONOMY; or, the Application of Modern Discoveries to the Purposes of Domestic Life. New edition, with a copious Index, 12mo. 8s. 6d. “ This work will be found to contain a variety of new and useful informa- tion, calculated at once to increase our comforts and diminish our expenses.” 2^ew Monthly Magazine. THE TRAVELLER’S ORACLE ; or, MAXIMS for LOCOMOTION. By WILLIAM KITCHINER, M.D., Author of the “ Cook’s Oracle,” &c. &c. Third Edition. In one volume small 8vo. 7s. 6d. “ Mirth and motion prolong life.” “ These two volumes abound in practical instruction of a rare and useful kind.” THE HORSE AND CARRIAGE ORACLE; con- taining Rules for Purchasing and Keeping, or Jobbing Horses and Carriages, in the easiest and most economical manner, with accurate Estimates of every expense pccasioncd thereby. Also an easy plan for ascertaining every Hackney Coach Fare. By JOHN JERVIS, an Old Coachman. The whole Revised by Wh.liam Kitchiner, M.D., forming the second Volume of the Traveller’s Oracle. The third Edition. In-one volume small 8vo. 7s. 6d.New Work^yrintcd for II.Colburn and R. Bentley. BURKE’S OFFICIAL KALENDAR FOR 1830; An Alphabetical Register of the Public Institutions, and Public Functionaries, Ecclesiastic, Civil, and Mditary, of the British Em- pire, including its Colonial and Foreign Dependencies. • With cir- cumstantial Details of the Sovereign Houses of Europe, particular- izing the present Members of each Family, &c. &c. By JOHN BURKE, Esq. Author of a General and Heraldic Dictionary of the Peerage and Baronetage, &c. &c. In 8vo. neatly bound. 10s. 6d. BURKE’S DICTIONARY of the PEERAGE and BARONETAGE of the BRITISH EMPIRE. A New and Revised Edition (completed to the present period), price 35s. bound. THE ART of PRESERVING the SIGHT unim- paired to extreme Old Age, and of re-establishing and strengthening it when it becomes weak: with Observations on the Inconveniences and Dangers arising from the use, of Common Spectacles, &c. &c. By an Experienced Oculist. The fifth edition, augmented and im- proved. 5s. 6d. ON THE CURATIVE INFLUENCE OF THE SOUTHERN COAST OF ENGLAND. By Dr. HARWOOD. 1 vol. small 8vo. 9s. 6cl. “ An instructive and very useful work. Dr. Harwood’s observations on the diseases in which a residence on the coast is most beneficial, ought to be read by every father of a family.”—New Times. THE ART of PRESERVING the FEET; or Practical Instructions for the Prevention and Cure of Corns, Bunnions, Callosities, Chilblains, &c. with Observations on the Dangers arising from improper treatment. Advice to Pedestrians, See. To which are added. Directions for the better Management of the Hands and Nails. By an Experienced Chiropodist. Second edition, in l vol. l2ino. price 5s. 6d. “Each page of this work will be found to contain some useful information.”— Gazette of Health. AN ESSAY on Warm, Cold and Vapour BATHING, with Observations on Sea Bathing, Bilious Liver Complaints, and Dropsy. By Sir Arthur Clarke, M. D. See. Fifth edition im- proved. 5s. 6d. “ This work will be found to contain more useful instruction .and more valuable practical remarks than any. that has .appeared on the subject.”— Gazette of Health. Also, by the same Author, THE MOTHER’S INIEDICAL ASSISTANT’. Containing Practical Instructions for the Prevention and Treatment of the Diseases of Infants and Children. 1 vol. -is. Gd. AN ESSAY ou DISEASES of THE SKIN. Con- taining Practical Observations on Sulphureous Fumigations in the Cure of Cutaneous Complaints, with several remarkable cases. 12mo. 5s. 6d.!lTK