THE BONES. 134 by a broad, jagged extremity witTi tbe frontal bone. The origin of the nasal process is best seen from with- in the nasal chamber; it here presents a smooth con- cave surface defined in front by the sharp compressed edge of the outer border of the anterior nasal aper- ture, and behind by the thickened anterior border of the lachrymal groove. This border is traceable up- ward to appear at the outer aspect of the bone on the inner wall of the orbit in front of the lachrymal bone, so that the lachrymal groove lies upon the inner side of the nasal process below and terminates at its outer side above. The nasal process is marked within by two transverse ridges^ the lower for the inferior turbi- nated bone, the upper for the middle turbinated. The outer or facial surface may be divided at the level of the infra-orbital ridge into an upper and a lower por- tion. The upper portion is slightly concave exter- nally, and marked by minute depressions thought to be traces of the development of the bone. Its anterior edge is articulated with the nasal bone. The infra- orbital ridge is here observed to be continuous with the anterior border of the lachrymal groove. The ijcdatal process is a horizontal plate of bone extending the entire length of the oral aspect of the superior maxilla. It is thinner at its middle than at either border. It is best defined opposite the second molar tooth, where it arises from the alveolar process and presents a thin transverse border for union with the palatal process of the palatal bone. It joins its fellow of the opposite side at the median line by a vertically serrate border; the upper edge of which, termed the crest^ is produced to articulate with the vomer. The internal border of the palatal process is broader in front than behind, and it is continuous with the mesial border of the alveolar process at about the site of the anterior palatine canal. This foramen is best seen from beneath when the superior maxillse are in position. It then presents an ovoidal depression, at the base of which is seen the median suture. Lying within this depression are the two minute naso-pala- tine canals. At its sides are seen the incisorial fora- mina. These two sets of canals transmit the terminal branches of the naso-palatine nerves from the nasal chambers to the roof of the mouth. The palatal process is smooth and concave above to enter into the floor of the nose, and roughened below for the attach- ment of the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth. The lateral border of this surface is grooved for the posterior palatine artery and nerve. The alveolar process extends along the under mar- gins of the facial and zygomatic surfaces. It is a stout curved mass of spongy bone, placed at the sides of the hard palate and curved forward at the incisorial region to join its fellow of the opposite side at the median line. It is well defined within the cavity of the moutli, where it forms an angle with the palatal process. On the facial and zygomatic aspects it is continuous with the body of the bone. The alveolar process is divided into eight sockets or alveoli, cor- responding in size and shape to the teeth; those of the molar teeth being broad, the canine circular, and the incisors somewhat compressed from side to side. The bases of the sockets of the roots of the first and second molars appear as eminences within the maxillary sinus. That of the canine tooth is the deepest, and forms the canine eminence on the facial border. The malar process is broad, and is seen at the junc- tion of the facial and zj'gomatic surfaces. It is di- rected horizontally outwards, and articulates with the malar bone. Structure.—The body of the superior maxilla is composed of thin laminte. The ascending process is compact, but the alveolar process is made up entirely of small-meshed but stout cancelli. Articulation.—The superior maxilla articulates with the bone of the opposite side, the frontal, nasal, ethmoid, lachrymal, palatal, malar, and inferior tur- binated bones, as well as with the vomer. It also joins the triangular cartilage. Development.—Our knowledge of the development of the superior maxilla is in a less satisfactory state than that of any other bone. Its centres appear in membrane and soon coalesce. Writers agree, how- ever, that separate centres appear in the alveolar arch, the nasal, facial, orbital, and malar portions. Inferences deduced from the study of comparative anatomy and structural defects lead us to believe that the incisorial portion arises from two centres of ossi- fication, one on either side of the median line in the position of the premaxillte of lower animals. Develop- ment begins as early as the sixth or seventh week. In complete cleft palate the incisorial portion is sepa- rated from the remaining portion of the bone of the side corresponding to that on which the cleft occurs, or on both sides if the clefts in the alveolar arch are double (bilateral). Moreover, grave lesions in the development of the face indicate that the lateral parts of the superior maxilla arise within the first pair of visceral arches, while the incisorial centres arise within the lower free edge of the median fronto- nasal process of the embryo which descends in front of the ethmo-vomerine septum.