THE BONES OF THE HEAD. 143 OOO^OO^ • tends to provoke ostitis and suppuration, with their sequelai, constitutional disturbance, and increased risk of pyajmia.—The methods of securing vascular and nervous supply are widely remote from one another. In the lower jaw the bloodvessels and nerves enter by a canal which is primarily a groove in the em- bryonic bone, and which in necrosis is probably in- cluded in great part within the thickened osteogenetic periosteum. Tiie dental nerve and vessel are de- signed, in a word, for a special object within the jaw, as well as to give blood and nerve-supply to the bone : thus holding the same relation to the jaw that the hepatic artery and nerve hold to the liver. The lower jaw is, independently of the teeth, not a very vascu- lar bone. It succumbs readily to attacks of necrosis, as much from this cause as from its peculiarly ex- posed situation. The ostitis preceding necrosis in the lower jaw is almost always more marked than in a long bone, and the pain is greater. The latter symptom often resem- bles that of intermittent toothache, thus complicating the diagnosis. The swelling of the cheek and gums, the difficulty in mastication, and the dysphagia, as well as the increased activity of the mucous and sali- vary glands, are distinctive symptoms. The presence of a sequestrum may, according to Butcher,' induce vomiting and difficulty in speech and swallowing. Thus, we have as a result of a branch of a cranial nerve being held in connection with the products of inflammation—if it be not itself inflamed—an excita- tion of a larger circle of sympathies than can arise from analogous conditions within a long bone. T. Holme^^ mentions the occurrence of fatal hemor- rhage from the lingual artery excited by a maxillary sequestrum. Necrosis of the lower jaw, as a sequela of measles, scarlet fever, smallpox, and typhoid fever—diseases whose lesions are for the most part splanchnic—can- not be compared to anything seen in the long bones. The same remark is true of phosphor-necrosis. It will be remembered that this disease always invades the jaw through a carious tooth or open socket— proving not only that the direct contact of the poison- ous agent with the cancelli is requisite, but that such contact is possible only in the jaws; for no such rela- tionship of cancelli to an open surface is ever seen in a long bone. A transverse section of the compact structure of the jaw may be compared to a vase. The base of the vase is firm and thick; the sides become ' Essays and Reports on Operative and Conservative Surgery. R. G. Butcher. Dublin, 1865, 307. 2 Holmes's System of Surgery, iii. G45. thin as they approach the brim, while the upper sur- face is open. If a tooth is removed, the cancelli are at once exposed. Applying this explanation to the shape of sequestra, it will be seen that a seques- trum of the lower jaw or an exfoliation from the ends of a broken bone must be more or less U-shapcd, as the same specimens from a long bone are more or less cylindrical. This rule does not apply to syphilitic necrosis. According to Stanley,' nine months are required to restore a lower jaw through the activity of its perios- teum after the bone has been destroyed by necrosis. The comparison between the lower jaw and a long bone is interesting in studying the subject of re- moval. The wide range of sympathies seen in ostitis and necrosis of the lower jaw is to be expected in ex- cision of that bone. In the event of amputation of a limb proving fatal, Ave commonly find pyemia or secondary hemorrhage playing a ghastly role. While these prodromes to fatal disaster are unfortunately not wanting in the other operation, we more fre- quently find erysipelas and shock the exciting causes of sudden death. In summing up the experience gained in seven amputations, J. W. Casack^ says: "Fatal cases of diffused inflammation succeeding to operations in the vicinity of the base of the lower jaw are by no means infrequent." In one of his cates, the erysipelatous inflammation involved the parts about the larynx, death ensuing on the ninth day after the operation. Mr. Symes^ narrates a case of excision which proved inexplicably fatal on the second day. (/') 21ie loiver jaiu as determininy the localization of tumors.—From an anatomical standard, this subject, of great intricacy in other relations, resolves itself into a few simple propositions:— 1st. When a tumor originates within or beneath the gum, and involves the cancelli secondarily, it indubi- tably belongs to the alveolar group of morbid growths. The difi'ereut varieties of epulis are thus anatomically restricted. 2d. Fibrous tumors, according to Nelaton, may either arise within the body of the bone, when by their growth they will encompass the bone, or, having their origin beneath the periosteum, they may protrude toward the affected side. The same writer affirms that they tend to develop toward the cutaneous rather than toward the mucous (oral) aspect of the bone. Fergusson* describes a fi^brous tumor which lay inclosed • Trans. Path. Soc. London, iii. 169. 2 Dub. Hosp. Rep., iv. 1827, 1. ^ Surg. Contributions, 21. ^ Med. Times and Gazette, lSfi5, 141.