THE BONES OF THE HEAD. 119 c.<-jO^OO^ The base of the sacrum is about on the level of the anterior superior spinous processes; the 2)osition of the promontory can thus be accurately determined. THE COCCYX. The coccyx is composed of the rudiments of four vertebra3. This number may be increased to five, or even be reduced to three. The coccyx has neither arches nor spinal canal. The bones arrange themselves in a series resembling that seen in the sacrum, inas- much as the first is the largest, and the last is the smallest: the resultant figure is therefore wedge- shaped. The first vertebra is usually distinct, while the remaining are co-ossified, the limiting ridges alone indicating the lines of union. The first vertebra pos- sesses a pair of ascending processes {the coccyyeal cornua), posteriorly, which are in the line with the articular processes of the sacrum, and which may be considered to be rudiments of the laminse. Well- defined rudiments of transverse processes exist in this member of the series alone. The second and third coccygeal vertebra? are much compressed from above downward, and triangular in form ; while the remaining portion of the bone as pyriform. The first coccygeal vertebra unites with tlie second, and also with the sacrum in the adult period. Such union is subject to much variation. An intervertebral disk exists ordinarily between the coccyx and the sacrum. Development.—The coccyx arises from four cen- tres of development. Ordinarily each bone arises from a distinct centre ; the upper may arise from two. The first becomes osseous at birth ; the second at from the fifth to the tenth year; the third before puberty ; and the fourth after puberty. Remarks. — The coccyx can be readily felt by rectal or even vaginal examination. It has been often fractured by external violence; and in par- turition, where marked sacral curvature exists, it is often either fractured or displaced. The greatest in- terest centring about the coccyx relates to the painful affection known as coccygodynia. In connection with the structural changes associated with this dis- ease the student should carefully study the ligaments and nerves of the coccyx, and the muscles inserted into it, as well as the position of the coccygeal body. Among the causes of this aft'ection may be mentioned inflammation of the bone and ligaments, contracture of the muscles, and enlargement of the coccygeal body. YerneuiP proposes to remove the coccyx as a preliminary pi'ocedure to perineal section in cases of imperforate rectum. The assertion is made that the operation is without danger. For the relation existing between the curvature of the sacrum with the coccyx and the genital cleft, see the account of the female organs. THE BONES OF THE HEAD. The skull is composed of two sets of bones: one defines the brain-case and constitutes the cranium proper; and the other defines the nasal and orbital cavities, at the same time affording protection to the teeth, and constitutes the face. The bones of the cranium are eight in numVjcr,—- The occipital. The two parietals. The two temporals. The frontal. The sphenoid. The ethmoid. Tiie bones of the face are fourteen in number,— The vomer, The two superior maxillas. The two palatals, The two inferior turbinated bones, The two malars. The two lachrymals. The two nasals. The inferior maxilla. All the bones of the head, with the exception of the inferior maxilla, are immovably united together. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. The occipital bone (figs. 1, 2, 3, Plate XYI.; also, fig. 2, Plate XXXVl.) is situated at the base and posterior part of the cranium. It is slightly curved from above downward, and seen in profile is of a crescentic figure. The part of the figure in advance of tlie conspicuous condyles passes upward and for- ward, and forms the basilar portion of the bone; that to the outer side of the condyles forms the lateral portion; and that behind, passing backward and up- ward, forms the ascending portion. Between the condyles, and extending thence backward, lies the foramen magnum. This is a large oval foramen, somewhat longer than wide, and wider behind than in front. The occipital bone articulates with the sjthenoid bone and with the parietal and temporal bones. It aftbi'ds ' Gaz. d<-s Ilopitaux, Nos. 87 aud 90, 1873.