THE KNEE-JOINT. 233 the outer border of tlie external interarticular carti- lage toward the tibio-fibular articulation, with which it communicates, it is estimated, in one out of every six cases. Behind it passes between the femoral con- dyles and the origins of the Gastrocnemius muscle. Synovial fringes are present at the lower and front part of the joint, and are especially conspicuous about the lateral margins of the patella and the interartic- ular cartilages to constitute the two alar Uyaments, so called. These, beginning at the front and at the sides of the joint below, unite in a rounded cord containing a few ligamentous fibres, and are prolonged backward and upward to the front of the upper condyloid notch. Beneath the synovial membrane at the sides of the patella, and in front of the femur, a quantity of fat is deposited. When the knee is extended, the top of the cul-de sac lies two inches above the upper margin of the patella. In the flexed position it is lower. Inferiorly the synovial membrane lies a little above the level of the upper part of the head of the fibula. Cysts forming in the ham are liable to be fixed to the inner tendon of the Gastrocnemius (five cases in twenty); when situated in the middle of the ham there may be hernial protrusions of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint through the posterior portion of capsules (six cases in twenty). They are frequently complicated with hydrarthrosis.^ The form of the capsule can be often made out in some of the forms of distension with sjniovial effusion. Thus the swelling is apt to be rounded and uniform at the inner side of the joint, while inconspicuous and irregular on the outer side. The patellar cul-de-sac may be measurably separated from the rest of the joint, and the prolongation about the tendon of the Popliteus muscle may be completely separated from the main cavity of the joint. Movements.—The movements of the knee-joint are both gliding and rolling. The gliding occurs between the external condyle of the femur and the external interarticular disk, and between the posterior half of the internal condyle and the internal articular disk, as well as at the patellar groove between the patella and the outer condyle. The rolling takes place between the interarticular disks and the tibial condyles, especially at the outer half of the joint and between the nari'ow oblique facet inter- polated between the internal condyle and the patellar groove, which has received the name of the oblique facet of Meyer. ' Fouclier, Arcliiv. de Medecine, 1856. Without the aid of the interarticular disks none of the above motions can be efiected. The disks convert the sinuate or flat tibial surfaces into shallow cavities admirably adapted to serve as sockets for the femoral condyles. The differences in the shapes of the con- dyles as contrasted with those of the interarticular disks indicate that the lines of action of each of the condyles are distinct. Flexion and extension, which are in this sense equivalent to the action of gliding, are more complete in the outer than in the inner half of the joint. In this connection it is well to remember the less fixed and more rounded form of the outer disk as compared with that of the innei', and the decided manner in which the ligaments check the extremes of motion. The longer external lateral ligament, for example, is a well-defined cord-like band of great strength placed further back than is the internal lateral ligament. It is, therefore, of the two the more thoroughly relaxed, while in extension the same ligament is made proportionally more tense. As the joint is flexed, a disposition exists for the tibia to rotate upon its longitudinal axis. This movement takes place, it is thought, between the external femoral condyle and the external disk acting as one factor, and the outer tibial condyle as the other. Meyer estimates that the degree of rotation here effected is in direct ratio to the angle of flexion of the limb at the knee, when it is seen of necessity to be dependent upon the extent to which the ligaments of the external condjde have become relaxed. Flexion of the outer half of the joint is limited by the anterior crucial ligament which becomes tense in extreme flexion, while extension is limited by the posterior crucial ligament. In moderate degrees of flexion, namely, those that most likely occur in the acts of walking, sitting, etc., the anterior crucial ligament is relaxed. In flexion of the inner half of the knee the move- ment is seen to be guarded by the Aveaker and fascia- like internal lateral ligament which is placed well forward, as also by the broad bands accessory to the capsule at this place. The posterior crucial ligament assists the internal lateral ligament in keeping the inner condyle in position, but the last-named, as has already been seen, is less relaxed in flexion. The rotatory movement at the inner side of the joint is also much less pronounced than at the outer. Oil the other hand, the rolling motion between the inter- nal disk and the inner femoral condyle at the oblique facet is increased, and a peculiar curve upward and inward is described, that has been compared to the figure of the spiral, hence the name of screw-motion 30