191 THE FEMUR. ward and inward, and joining tlie inferior border of the great trochanter with the lesser trochanter. It limits the base of the neck. At a right angle to the above-mentioned line the Quadratus Femoris muscle is inserted. The lower extremity of the femur is broad, and trans- versely flattened, and is wider behind than in front. It presents for examination an external (lateral) and an inner (median) condyle, together with the inter- condyloid notch and the patellar groove.—The exter- nal condyle yields a lateral, nearly flat border, which is continuous with the lateral surface of the shaft. The articular surface is convex and broad, but nar- rowed slightly as it approaches the posterior surface, where it terminates in a horizontal border. Above it lies a faint impression for the origin of the lateral (outer) head of the Gastrocnemius muscle. The lateral surface presents a rounded eminence called the external tvbberosity. Below this the surface is marked by a pronounced depression for the external lateral ligament, and the groove for the Popliteus muscle.— The internal condyle is inclined obliquely inward and slightly downward, and broadens at its posterior oblique border. Above is a depression for the origin of the median (inner) head of the Gastrocnemius muscle and the internal tuberosity (corresponding in position with the eminence on the external condyle) for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament. "When the isolated bone is placed in a vertical posi- tion, the inner condyle descends below the level of the outer; this effect disappears when the bone is placed as in articulation. Posteriorly the condyles are separated by a deep notch — the intercondyloid notch — whose opposed lateral surfaces and base are eoncave for the attach- ment of the crucial ligaments.—The condyles are con- tinuous anteriorly by means of a shallow, saddle- shaped surface, termed the patellar groove, whose deepest convexity lies on a level with the top of the inter-condyloid notch posteriorly, and whose greatest convexity lies to the outer side of this depression. The notch answers to the resting-place of the patella in the position of the thigh in extension. Above the patellar notch is a long, shallow excavation, covered in the fresh state with thick periosteum, and furnished with orifices for veins. Structure.—The walls of the shaft are enormously thick, the median being somewhat the heavier. The proximal end of the bone exhibits five sets of lines in the spongy tissue, which are limited abruptly inferi- orly at a little below the level of the trochanter minor, and thence extend through the upper portion of the bone. The first set are confined to the head, and, in- deed, distinguish its epiphysis throughout life. The lines are arranged in close series, radiately to the curve of the articular surface. The line of junction with the neck is at times marked by a number of coarser interspaces than those seen elsewhere. The second set begin opposite the trochanter minor, and pass upward to the epiphyseal junction, which it for the most part occupies, as a cluster of straight, stout lamellae. In some specimens these lines are so closely serried as to present the appearance of compact tissue. Toward the proximal end of the lower border they are weaker. The third set are coarso, and range from opposite the lesser trochanter down to the lower limit of the spongy area. They serve to faintly intersect the fourth set, which are the strongest and the best developed. These range curviiinearly from the lateral border of the line at and below the base of the great trochanter to the upper portion of the epiphyseal junction. Some of the stouter of these lines-, as they range from the upper border of the neck toward its axis, may be continuous with the weak upper border, as described by H. C. Bigelow.' The fifth set are the loosely arranged and weak cancelli of the great tro- chanter.-—The distal end of the bone is occupied by a set of stout, nearly vertical lines in the outer condyle, which pass thence to the outer side of the shaft, and a second much weaker and more oblique set in the inner condyle. A number of weak transverse lines intersect the foregoing at right angles. Development.—The femur arises from five centres of ossification. The first appears in the shaft at about Fig. 75. A longitudinal section of the head and neck of the femur, showing the posi- tions of the epiphyses for the head and the great trochanter. the fifth to the seventh week. The second appears in the condylar epiphysis at the nintli month of foetal ' The Hip, p. 120.