THE JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE FOOT. 239 CX>0^000 head of the astragalus. Viewed from above, in a foot from which the astragalus has been removed, the in- ferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is seen to form the median and basal aspect of a socket of which the calcaneum and the scaphoid bone form the remammg parts. The ligament is of great strength, and aids in breaking the shock attending the abrupt transfer of the weight of the body through the astragalus upon the foot. The Astragalo-Scaphoid Ligament is a broad, fine- textured, capsule-like membrane extending from the dorsum of the neck of the astragalus forward over the prominence of the head of the same bone to the dorsum of the scaphoid bone, some of its fibres pass- ing to the second cuneiform. It partly overlies the scaphoido-cuneiform ligaments. The Scaphoido-Cuneiform ligaments superiorly are distinct flat slips passing from the scaphoid bone to tiie cuneiform bones. They are best developed on the median border of the foot when the scaphoid and the first cuneiform bone are united. Inferiorly the single stout scaplioido-cuneiform ligament is attached proxi- mally to the tubercle of the scaphoid, and passes in a radiate manner thence to the cuneiform bones. The Scaphoido Cuboidal Ligaments present a supe- rior, an inferior, and an interosseous fascicle. The superior fascicle is much shorter than the inferior. It passes from the upper and the median part of the superior surface of the cuboid to the scaphoid bone. The inferior fascicle—one of the most conspicuous of the plantar ligaments—passes in the form of a flat- tened cord from the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone forward and outward to the cuboid bone. The inter- osseous fascicle occupies the deep excavation between the scaphoid and the cuboid bones, and is also attached to the third cuneiform. The three cuneiform bones are held together by short, peripheral, and interosseous ligamentous bands, as in the union of the third cuneiform with the cuboid. They do not demand extended description. Eemarks. — The actions of the ligaments of the tarsus can be best studied by dividing them under the following heads :— (1) The movement of the astragalus on the cal- caneum and the scaphoid bone. (2) The movement of the calcaneum on the cuboid. (8) The movement of the medio-tarsal joint. (1) The weight of the bodj^ when thrown upon the foot tends to rotate the astragalus on the fixed calca- neum inward; the head of the first-named bone moves inward and downward on the line of motion afforded by the posterior calcaneo-astragalar articulation. The action is checked by all the' ligaments of the ankle- joint, the astragalo-calcaneal, the anterior portion of the interosseous (now horizontal), the superior and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid which become ten.ge. The astragalo-scaphoid ligament and the posterior portion of the mterosseous ligament are relaxed. When the weight of the body is removed from the foot, as in the supine position, the posterior calcaneo- astragalar articulation is at rest, and the surfaces in part separated. The posterior portion of the inter- osseous ligament and the astragalo-scaphoid are tense, while the remaining ligaments are relaxed. The head of the astragalus at the same time forms a pro- minence on the dorsum of the foot. In the affection ordinarily called "sprained ankle" the ligaments of the ankle and the tarsal ligaments, save two only, are subjected to over-strain. The posterior calcaneo-.scaphoid joint suffers more than any other portion of the tarsus, and develops an ex- quisitely tender spot answering to pressure over the sinus tarsi. Should the ligaments holding the astra- galus to the calcaneum and the calcaneum to the scaphoid bone yield, dislocation of the astragalus forward and inward is effected. (2) When the weight of the body is borne on the foot, as in the erect position, the nearly flat joint be- tween the calcaneum and the cuboid bone becomes entirely engaged. The inferior calcaneo-cuboid liga- ment becomes tense, while the superior ligaments be- come relaxed.—In the supine position the joint is at rest, and the surfaces tend to separate from one an- other. The inferior ligament is now relaxed, and the superior is tense. The astragalo-scaphoid, and both the dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ligaments might now be termed suspensory to the foot beyond the medio- tarsal line.—The prolonged retention of the foot in the position last described constitutes foot-drop," a complication which is liable to occur in bed-ridden patients when the foot is kept for a long time with- out support to the medio-tarsal joint. Talipes equi- nus is a variety of "foot-drop." (3) The action of the medio-tarsal joint is one of torsion about the internal calcaneo-cuboid and the calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. The torsion is deter- mined by muscles inserted distally to the joint-line. The Tibialis Anticus and the Tibialis Posticus act on the stout median border from the inner side, and turn the sole downward and inward, while the Peroneus Longus, acting on the same line from the outer side, turns the sole downward and outward.—Inward rota- tion of the astragalus tends to carry the foot inward —an action antagonized by the Peroneus Longus.