X THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. ^OG-^^OOo 183 The palmar surfaces are flat, and marked in advance of the distal end by wide expansions for the insertion of the tendons of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. The crest on the proximal surface is less pronounced than on the phalanges of the second row. The free extremity is rounded and elevated, much roughened, and is marked on the palmar surface by a triangular notch. It serves to support the pulp of the finger tip. The sides of the palmar rugosity may be extended backward as little spines. The terminal phalanx of the thumb is relatively larger than the others. It is markedly asymmetrical, the median border being shorter and more concave than the lateral. The Sesamoid Bones.—The sesamoid bones are rounded and seed-like in appearance, and are placed in the tendons of the various muscles of the hand at the side of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. They are best developed at the thumb, where they are lodged in the tendons of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis, the Adductor Pollicis, and the Abductor Pollicis muscles. Similar structures are also found in the tendons of the muscle of the index and little fingers. For remarks concerning the sesamoid bones see the general considerations of the muscles. Development.—Each metacarpal bone and phalanx arises from two centres of ossification—one for the shaft or main portion, and one for an epiphysis. In all the metacarpal bones, excepting the first, the epi- physeal centre lies to the distal end of the shaft, but in the first it lies to the proximal end. In the phalanges the epiphyses are without exception proximately dis- posed. The nuclei of the shafts first appear in the eighth or ninth week; those of the epiphyses from the third to the fifth year. Dcvclopmeut is complete at about the twentieth year. THE BONES OF THE INFERIOR EXTREMITY. The bones composing the inferior extremity are the innominate bone, tiie femur, the tibia, the fibula, the tarsus, the metatarsus, the phalanges, and the sesa- moid bones—including the patella. THE INNOMINATE BONE. The innominate (pelvic, hip, liaunch bone) (Plates XXXI., XXXII.) is the largest of the flat bones. It articulates with the sacrum and with the correspond- ing bone of the opposite side. While forming part of the framework of the trunk, it is included among the bones of the lower extremity. The two innomi- nate bones articulate with the sacrum and the coccyx, and with them make up the jielvis. The innominate bone is subdivided into three distinct portions, viz., the ilium, the pubis, and the ischium,—which are so disposed as to form two ex- panded, irregular plates, arranged end to end and connected by a narrow isthmus. The U2:>2jer plate^ which may also receive the name of the iliac -plate^ is flattened from within outward; while the hwer plate^ which may also receive the name of the ischio- puJ/ic plate, is flattened from before backward. In- termediate in position to the above plates is the acetahiihim. Before describing the bone as a whole, the following brief account of the three component parts will be given. The ilium constitutes the upper plate. In a strict morphological sense, it also includes part of the ace- tabulum, but for practical purposes it is sufficient to limit it inferiorly at the isthmus. The pmhis forms the anterior portion of the ischio-pubic plate, and presents a compressed V-shaped figure,—the re-enter- ing angle of which forms the l>ody^ the upper branch the horizontal ramus, and the lower branch the descending ramus of the pubis. The ischium com- prises the posterior part of the ischio-pubic plate. It is more massive than either of the others, and presents in common with the pubis a Y-shaped figure whose posterior prismoidal limb forms the lady, and the anterior flattened part the ascending ramus. A description of the innominate bone includes a lateral and a median surface; four borders; and the obturator foramen. The lateral surf ace [oMier, femoral, external) is more irregular than the median, and is divided into {a) the dorsum of the ilium, [b) the region of the acetabulum, and (c) the lateral surface of the ischio-pubic portion. {(.() The djrsum of the ilium.—The dorsum of the ilium is a broad, undulating surface that is covered in the undissected subject with the Gluteal and the Tensor Yaginse Femoris muscles. It is concave at the anterior border, convex on a line with the posterior lip of the acetabulum, again concave for the greater part of the remaining surface, but is convex near the posterior border. Eachof thesesinuositiesanswcrs to some points of anatomical limitation. Thus, the first concavity answers to the origin of the Tensor Yaginae Femoris, . and in part to the surface of origin of the Gluteus Minimus. The first convexity answers to the begin-