98 THE BONES. symmetry. It may be stated once for all that the facts given are intended to apply to the adult skeleton, and to the purposes of the physician, and not to satisfy the needs of the student of morphology. CLASSIFICATION OF BONES. The bones comprising the skeleton are classified either by the region of the body in which the bones occur, as those of the head, chest, extremities, etc., or by the shapes of the bones themselves, when the terms long, flat, irregular bones, etc., are used. The Long Bones.—The long bones are those which resemble for the most part modified cylinders. Hence, they are often called cylindrical bones. They are prismoidal in shape, and slightly twisted. The femur or thigh-bone, the tibia or shin-bone, the fibula or clasp-bone, and the analogous bones in the arm and forearm, are good examples of the class. Long- bones of a smaller kind than the foregoing are often classified as the short bones. Among these may be placed the clavicles or collar-bones, and the metacar- pal and metatarsal bones. They are less prismoidal than the long bones proper. The phalangeal bones, which belong to the same class, are flat on one side, and thus recall the figure of a semicylinder. Each long bone presents a shaft or diaphysis, and two extremities. The shaft slightly expands to join the extremities. These form the ba.«es of two pyra- mids, the apices of which may be said to unite in the shaft. In the bones of a prismoidal form the sides of the prism-like figure extend into the extremi- ties, and serve to strengthen them. The extremities of a long bone articulate with the adjacent bones, and ordinarily form what is known as epiphyseal ends, owing to the fact that these portions of the bones arise from distinct centres, known as the epi2:)hyses. The ligaments are here attached, the muscles have insertions, and the surfaces are marked by rugosities and venous canals. The end of the bone nearest the body is called the proximal end, and that farthest away the distal end. When an articular surface is round and convex (especially if it is on the proximal extremity), it is called the head of the bone. The neck is a contrac- tion placed beneath the articular surface, and is apt to be the narrowest part of the bone. No muscle is inserted either upon the head or the neck of a bone. Flat Bones. — The flat bones are irregular and table-like, and ordinarily are passive in their function. Such, for example, are the bones of the skull which protect the brain, and those of the pelvis which pro- tect the internal organs of generation and in part the intestines. An important flat bone, the scapula, is however active in its function. Irbegular Bones.—The irregular bones are of small size, and do not preserve any constant outline. In this class are placed the bones of the carpus and tarsus, and those of the vertebral column. Some are placed in pairs, Avhile others are median and single. They agree in function, however, since they are always found in situations where strength and a slight motion are required. They are thus admirably adapted to sustain weight and to resist shock. The irregular bones are arranged in a single row as in the vertebral column, or in a number of rows as in the carpus and tarsus, primarily in the longitudinal direction of the limbs, but forming at the same time transverse arches of enormous strength. Sesamoid Bones.— The sesamoid bones are so named from their resemblance to seeds. They are rounded or oblong ossifications of small size arising in the tendons of muscles, and aid these organs in maintaining accurate relations to articular surfaces. They are thus seen in muscles crossing joints, as the quadriceps femoris and flexor brevis pollicis. They ordinarily possess one or two articular facets. Wormian Bones (Ossa Triquetea).—The Wor- mian bones are tabular. They are inconstant, of vari- able size, and are seen nowhere but in the vertex of the skull. They belong to the group of bones here situate, and are firmly articulated with them. They are apt to be seen between the parietal and the occi- pital bones. Weight of the Skeleton—The skeleton weighs from twelve to fourteen pounds. The right side is somewhat heavier than the left. terms used in describing bone. In the description of bones a number of special terms occur, some consideration of which is neces- sary to a proper understanding of the text. Among those relating to distinctions among the kinds of ele- vations or prominences from the common surface of a bone, may be mentioned the following:— Process.—-Any projection from the bone. ■ Condyle.—An articular process of bone, which is