PROSPECTUS OF— A SYSTEM OF HUMAN ANATOMY, INCLUDINGITS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL RELATIONS. —B Y— HARRISON ALLEN, M. D., PKOFKSSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY IX THE UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA, ETC., ETC. WITH A CHAPTER OiN HISTOLOGY, B Y E. O. SHAKESPEARE, M. D., OPHTHALMOLOGIST TO THE PHILADELPHIA HOSPITAL. To be completed in Six Sections^ containing about 5J0 pages of letter-press, illustrated with j8o figures on log plates, many of which are beautifully colored. Tlie drawings by Hermann Fabcr, from dissections by the Author. Also, 2j0 woodcuts in the text. PRICE PER SECTION, $3.50. Section I. HISTOLOGY. Section IV. ARTERIES, VEINS AND LYMPHATICS. II. BONES AND JOINTS. " V. NERVOUS SYSTEM. III. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. " VI. ORGANS OF SENSE, OF DIGESTION AND GENITO-URINARY ORGANS. The plan and scope of the \vork may be gathered from the following brief extract from the introduction. " It is the design of this book to present the facts of human anatomy in the manner best suited to the requirements of the student and practitioner of medicine. The author believes that such a book is needed, inasmuch as no treatise, as far as he knows, contains, in addition to the text descriptive of the subject, a systematic presentation of such anatomical facts as can be applied to practice. A book which will be at once accurate in statement and concise in terms; which will be an acceptable expression of the present state of the science of anatomy; which will exclude nothing that can be made applicable to the medical art, and which will thus embrace all of surgical importance, while omitting nothing of value to clinical medicine,—would appear to have an excuse for existence in a country where most surgeons are general practitioners, and where there are few general practitioners who have no interest in surgery." As a brief introduction to the essential features of the volume, attention is invited to the kinds of knowledge of the human body which the physician demands. First. An exact acquaintance with the form and construction of the organs of the body. But, inasmuch as an anatomical fact is' of little use unless the range of application of the fact is known, the due connection between the normal condition of the organs and their variations within the limits of health will receive proper attention, accordingly the typical description of each organ will be followed by a brief statement of such variations. Second. The physician demands a knowledge of the relations of the parts. This information it is necessary to possess in performing operations and in explaining signs and symptoms. Third. The physician needs some account of the uses of the organs. This subject overlaps physiological anatomy. That much only will be succinctly given as may be said properly to illustrate the subject from an anatomical point of view, and at the same time be free from controversy. Fourth. The physician must have a true conception of the nature and general behavior of morbid processes, and of the manner in which such processes are modified by locality. His comprehension of the changes due to diseased action in a given place must be fairly proportional to his knowledge of the normal anatomy of that place. This subject, which will receive the name of localization of diseased action, will be illustrated for the most part by concise statements of recorded cases, in which the essential feature of each case will be emphasized, and the bearing it has on the subject treated of clearly shown. In presenting anatomical features in explanation of given lesions, or of signs or symptoms, care has been taken to give the sources of the statements made. "x\mong other matters, the book will be found to contain an elaborate description of the tissues; an account of the normal development of the body; a section on the nature and varieties of monstrosities; a section on the method of conducting post-mortem examinations; and a section on the study of the superficies of the body taken as a guide to the position of the deeper structures. These will appear in their appropriate places, duly subordinated to the design of presenting a text essentially anatomical." In the preparation of this elaborate work no pains have been spared. The illustrations of normal anatomy, with a few exceptions, are from original dissections, engraved on the stone, with the name of every part clearly drawn upon the figure after the manner of "Holden" and "Gray," and in every typographical detail it has been the effort of the publishers to render the volume worthy of the distinguished position anticipated for it. Each section will be enclosed in an individual portfolio, thus preserving all in a perfect condition in case it is subsequently desired to bind them as a volume.