166 THE BONES. thought necessary. The anterior border of the Pec- toralis Major answers to the line of the fifth rib. The first visible digitation of the Serratus Magnus is attached to the sixth rib; the second digitation to tlie seventh rib. The hand of the subject or model being placed upon the head exposes the axilla, which is defined bj the Pectoralis Major and Pectoralis Minor in front, and by the Latissiraus Dorsi, Teres Major, and Subscapular muscles behind: the Serratus Magnus forms the floor of the axilla, which corresponds to the space from the second to the fifth ribs. In this space the lung-sounds can be heard with greater ease than at any other part of the chest, and they should here be sought for in all careful examinations of the con- ditions of the apex.—Kichet^ states that abscess of the axilla can cause irritation and thickening of the ad- jacent pleura by direct transmission through the tho- racic parietes. Holden^ suggests that the lines of the anterior and the posterior walls of the axilla produced down along the sides of the thorax should receive the name of the axillary lines.—The nipple overlies the fourth intercostal space, the fourth or even the fifth rib. It varies in positi(m according to the state of the thorax. In emphysema the nipple, if it remains stationary while the upper ribs ascend, would answer to the fifth, and in extreme cases to the eighth. On the other hand, in shallow chests with depressed ribs, as seen in phthisis, the nipple may answer to the fourth.—The costal cartilage of the seventh rib lies at the junction of the base of the ensiform cartilage with the gladiolus. This position can be readily determined on the subject through the integument, and an easy method is thus presented of fixing the anterior border of the inferior thoracic aperture.— The positions of the floating ribs can always be re- cognized by the touch. If a tape-line whose initial end lies over the sternal end of the first rib is drawn transversely across the front of the thorax, and thence to the spines of the vertebral column, the terminal end will be found to rest upon the vertebral end of the fifth rib. On such a basis Luschka has elaborated, as in the following table, a series of lines for all the ribs:— Table of Kelations between the Anteriok and Posterior Surfaces of the Thorax. STERNAL END. The Sternal end of the first rib is second third fourth fifth sixth seventh eighth ninth tenth eleventh twelfth POSTERIOR EQUIVALENT. on the same line as the Vertebral end of the fifth rib " " " " " " seventh " " " " " " " eighth " " " " " " " ninth " " " " " " " tenth " " " " Middle of the vertebral and of the space between the tenth and eleventh ribs " " " Vertebral end of the eleventh rib " " " Beginning of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra " " " Near the body of the second lumbar vertebra " " " Near the body of the third " From what has been said in connection with the subject of the respiratory movements of the thorax, it is evident that some variation will exist in these lines. In the thorax prepared in the form of inspira- tion the lines for the upper six ribs would lie some- what above the level of the vertebral equivalents given in the table; in like manner, in the thorax prepared in the form of expiration, the lines for the lower ribs would be a little below. For the relations between the liver, the stomach, and the spleen and the base of the thorax, see the account of those organs. > Anat. Medico-Chirurg., 877. 2 Landmarks, 68. THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The bones of the upper extremity are those of the shoulder, the arm, the forearm, and the hand; they include the clavicle, the scapula, the humerus, the ulna, the radius, the carpal bones, the metacarpal bones, and the phalanges. THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle, or the collar bone (figs. 1, 2, 3, Plate XXVI.), is the medium by which the superior ex- tremity is connected to the trunk. It is placed super- ficially, so that its superior and anterior surfaces can