162 THE ONES. the eleventh and the twelfth, the entire cartilage is thus placed ; but in the remaining ribs the costo- axial portion is less than one-half of the entire length of the cartilage. The remaining or sternal portion ascends at an angle to the costal, either to join the sternum or the adjacent cartilages. The degree of ascent in each cartilage bears an exact relation to the downward inclination of the rib to which it belongs. The sternal end is narrowed to a greater or less degree in all the costal cartilages excepting the first. The movements of the upper costal cartilages are more or less limited, if indeed they are not entirely absent at the region of the first rib. The move- ments of the lower ribs, on the other hand, are very free; they expand the base of the thorax in inspira- tion. Hence the costal cartilages may be said to increase the basal measurement of the thorax while aiding the ribs in maintaining the elasticity of the thoracic walls. Owing to ossification of the cartilages, this elasticity diminishes in adult life, especially at the region of the upper ribs. In old age the costal cartilages are almost invariably ossified. In adult life they may be fractured. THE STERNUM. The sternum, or the breast bone (fig. 4, Plate XXV.), is a large flat bone placed at the anterior part of the thorax, and is held in position by the ribs. It assumes a slanting position downward and forward, so that its anterior surface looks slightly upward, and its posterior looks downward and backward. Its upper border is thus nearer the vertebral column than the lower, and answers in position to about the level of the second dorsal vertebra. The sternum is from seven to eight inches long, by one-and-a-half to two inches wide, and is six lines thick at its lower part. It is broader above than below, and is marked upon the sides along nearly its entire length by con- cave depressions for union with the costal cartilages. The sternum bears a rude resemblance to an ancient Roman sword, and its several portions have been named in consequence the manuhrium (handle, pre- sternum), the gladiolus (body, blade, mesosternum), and the ensiform process or cartilage (xyphoid cartilage, tip, metasternum). The line of junction between the manubrium and the gladiolus forms a distinct trans- verse ridge upon both the anterior and the posterior aspect of the bone. The former is often visible in the living subject. The mamiJrmm is the stoutest and thickest portion cf the bone. It is broad above, somewhat contracted below. It is a little less than half as long as the gladiolus, and serves for articulation with the first pair of ribs and the clavicles. Its upper margin is thick and rounded, and is transversely concave to form a semilunar depression—the inter-clavicular notch (fourchette)—which is covered by the inter-clavicular ligament, and is deepened in life by the median ends of the clavicles. Upon either side of the notch are the articular, saddle-shaped surfaces for the last-named bones. They are directed downward and outward, are concave from without inward, while convex from before backward. The lower margin of the manu- brium is nearly flat for articulation with the gladiolus. The sides are marked above by the simple depression for the first costal cartilage, and below by the half facet entering into the costo-sternal articulation of the second rib. The first-named joins the outer border of the clavicular articular surface, and is in- clined obliquely downward. The manubrium has the following muscular attachments: the Sterno-Cleido- Mastoideus, the Sterno-Hyoid, and the Sterno-Thyroid muscles; the last two appearing upon the posterior surface.^ The gladiolus is somewhat egg-shaped, being slightly broader below than above. Its lateral margins are marked by double-faceted depressions for the costal cartilages, in such order that the second rib joins the manubrio-gladiolar junction, and the seventh rib joins the gladiolus and the ensiform cartilage. The remain- ing costal cartilages are separated by semilunar de- pressions, which toward the lower end of the bone are nearly if not quite contiguous. The anterior sur- face is marked by three transverse lines, which indi- cate the union of t-he four pieces of which this por- tion of the sternum originally consists. An opening (sternal foramen) indicating a defect of development between the third and the fourth pieces is occasionally found. The gladiolus gives attachment to the Pecto- ralis Major in front and to the Triangularis Sterni behind. The ensiform process or cartilage is a thin spatula- like process having a variable length of from one-half inch to one-and-a-half inches. It is depressed below the level of the lower extremity of the gladiolus, so that when the integument covering it is in position a pit is demonstrable, consisting of the so-called scrobiculus cordis, or pit of the stomach. It is embraced by the linea alba. The anterior surface gives attachment to the costo-xyphoid ligaments; the posterior surface to ' By a mechanical error the attachment of the last-named muscle is represented in the figure upon the anterior surface.