LIGAMENTS ligament extending obliquely downward and inward from the scaphoid bone to the os magnum. On the dorsal surface two oblique ligaments pass between the cuneiform bone to the unciform ; one from the semi- lunar bone to the os magnum; another from the sca- phoid bone to the os magnum (this acts as an inter- osseous ligament, separating the lateral from the median portion of the joint); and yet another from the scaphoid bone to the trapezoid bone. The Synovial Membrane of the intercarpal articu- lation sends processes upward between the bones of the first row and downward between those of the second, and communicates with the sac between the second row and the metacarpal bones. The median border of the carpus is strengthened by the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. Movements.—The joint between the two rows is freely movable in flexion and extension. The high degree of specialization noted in the formation of the thumb and index finger is correlated with the forms of the joints intervening between them and the fore- arm. The lateral third of the joint is restricted to the movements of the first row of carpal bones upon the trapezium and the trapezoid, these bones being in longitudinal serial union with the thumb and the index finger.—The largest surface of contact be- tween the two rows occurs when tlie second row is strongly extended on the first, as in the act of support- ing the body on the hand in creeping.—The median two-thirds of the joint, in addition to flexion and ex- tension, permit a greater degree of locking to occur than in the lateral third.—The lateral facets of the socket-like proximal surface act as supporting or check facets at the limits of pronation and supina- tion.—The interosseous ligament between the sca- phoid bone and the os magnum acts as a check to pronation. — The carpus when at rest presents the second row of bones moderately extended upon the first. This is the position instinctively taken after injury of the wrist or body of the hand, and is the one to which surgical appliances should be adapted. The Nerves of the Carpus. The dorsum is sup- plied by a branch of the radial nerve; the ulnar aspect, by the interosseous nerve and a recurrent branch of the ulnar nerve ; the radial side by a deep branch of the ulnar. The metacarpo-phalangeal and the inter-phalangeal joints are supplied by the ulnar nerve. The Arteries are derived from the anterior and the posterior branches of the radial and the ulnar, as well as from the interosseous artery and the deep palmar arch. 29 F THE HAND. 225 THE CARPO-METACARPAL AND THE INTER- METACARPAL JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS. These lines of union are conveniently considered together. Two distinct joints are formed between the surfaces embraced in the title,—one between the first metacarpal bone of the thumb and the trapezium, and one between the remaining metacarpal bones and the trapezoid bone, the os magnum, and the unciform bone.—The first-named joint is saddle-shaped, pro- vided with a loose but stout capsule, strengthened by two lateral ligaments. The outer of these arises from the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone.— The second-named joint is nearly flat or sinuate be- tween the OS magnum, the unciform, and the third, the fourth, and the fifth metacarpal bones, but more irreg- ular and angulated between the trapezoid bone, the trapezium, and the second metacarpal bone. The joint is usually strengthened above by two ligaments to each metacarpal bone and below by numerous bands. The fifth metacarpal bone is united to the unci- form by capsule-like bands, recalling the peculi- arities of the joint between the first metacarpal bone and the trapezium.—Interosseous ligaments unite the OS magnum and the unciform bone with the third and the fourth metacarpal.—An intermetacarpal ligament passes between the third and the fourth metacarpal bones.—A special palmar ligament extends distally and medianly, to unite the trapezium with the third metacarpal bone. Movements.—The joint between the first meta- carpal bone and the trapezium, like saddle-joints else- where, permits of free motion in all directions.—The joint between the remaining metacarpal bones and the trapezoid, the os magnum and the unciform bone, is more fixed, but is quite mobile at the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones as compared with that at the second and third. — The capsule-like ligament at the fifth metacarpal bone enables a greater degree of motion to be here displayed than at any other portion of the carpo-metacarpal line.—The least degree of motion takes place at the second metacarpal bone.—The inter- osseous ligaments act as checks to extremes of move- ment of flexion and extension.—The fourth and the fifth metacarpals move together upon the nearly fixed third bone. the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The distal extremity of each metacarpal bone presents a large convex surface that is wider below than above, and is joined to a small concave surface on the proximal end of the first phalanx.