THE BONES, 120 e>00^00«> protection to the cerebellum and tlie occipital lobes of the cerebrum within, and yields points of origin to important bones without. In advance of the condyles it assists in forming the roof of the pharynx; and be- hind in defining the occiput and post-atlantal space. The foramen magnum transmits the medulla oblon- gata, the vertebral arteries, and the spinal accessory nerves. These structures do not entirely occupy the opening, the space between the medulla and the mar- gin being filled by the cerebro-spinal fluid. The basilar portion of the occipital bone is an oblong figure, and abruptly truncate in front, where it joins the body of the sphenoid bone. It is wedge-shaped—■ the base of the wedge constituting the surface that articulates with the body of the sphenoid, the edge forming in great part the anterior margin of the fora- men magnum. The basilar process presents four sur- faces for examination: an anterior and a posterior, just mentioned; a superior, which is cohcave and smooth to receive the medulla oblongata and the basi- lar artery; and an inferior, which is more irregular, and which is marked as follows: from before backward, first by a median minute circular depression, not con- stantly present; second, by the pharyn(jeal tubercle for the attachment of the pharyngeal aponeurosis; third, by the symmetrical depressions directly in advance of the occipital condyles, for the Anterior Eecti muscles. The lateral (outer) surface of the basilar portion is uneven, and articulates at its upper portion with the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Seen in posi- tion in the skull, the greater part of the under surface of the basilar process is free, and is covered by a dense fibrous tissue during life. Each lateral ijortion is joined anteriorlj'- by the basilar, superiorly by the ascending portion of the bone. It joins externally the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Upon its lateral side is a deep de- pression, the jugular notch which receives the jugular vein. Directly in front of the jugular notch is seen a smaller excavation for the ninth, tenth, and eleventh pairs of nerves. At the beginning of the occipito- mastoid junction is a hi'oad transverse process (jugular process), which is tipped in the recent subject with cartilage. Upon the under surface of the lateral por- tion, and corresponding at the same time to the under surface of the transverse process, is the jugular tu- bercle^ for origin of the Eectus Lateralis muscle. Upon the under surface in front of the condyle lies the anterior condyloid fossa, which is pierced by the ante- rior condyloid foramen (hypoglossal canal) for the transmittal of the hypoglossal nerve. Behind the condyle is seen a depression {posterior condyloid fossa), which is commonly perforated by the smaller poste- rior condyloid foramen for the accommodation of the posterior condyloid vein. The superior surface of the lateral portion is marked by the lateral sinus, as it passes downward to empty into the internal jugular vein. Upon the encranial surface and over the course of the anterior condyloid foramen is seen a bridge of bone, called the jugular eminence. — The large occipital condyles are placed one on each side of the foramen magnum. The articular surface of each condyle is elliptical in form, and directed obliquely downward and inward. The anterior edge of the articular surface rests on a rounded border that is an- gulated to the plane of the anterior condyloid fossa and that of the basilar process. The posterior por- tion of the articular surface lies on a level with the posterior condyloid depression, and thus presents a marked contrast to the anterior. The inner surface of each condyle is uneven for attachment of the check ligaments. Each articular surface is composed of two facets of about equal dimensions, an anterior and a posterior. These facets are occasionally separated by a transverse groove. The ascending portion of the occipital bone is a scallop-shaped expansion. It is convex externally, concave internally. The borders are thickened, and articulate by serrated surfaces with the parietal and temporal bones. The ascending portion joining EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVL Fig. 1. Tlie occipital bone, seen obliquely from the side. Fig. 2. Tlie occipital bone, seen from beneatb. Fig. 3. Tlie occipital bone, seen from in front. Fig. 4. The temporal bone, seen from beneath. Fig. 5. The temporal bone, seen from median aspect. The petrous portion is represented as foreshortened from in front. Fig. 6. The temporal bone, seen from lateral aspect. The words " Ext. Auditory meatus," should not have been engraved in capitals.