226 THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. The surfaces are united by a capsular ligament which, presents the following subdivisions :—- The Anterior Ligament. The Posterior Ligament. The two Lateral Ligaments. The Transverse Ligaments. The Anterior Ligament (glenoid ligament) is a thickened pad that forms on the palmar surface a firm concavity, in which lie the flexor tendons of the fingers. The sheath of the tendons is closely incorporated with the pad. Its posterior surface is also concave, to receive the palmar aspect of the head of the metacarpal bone. The Posterior Ligament is weak, bursa-like, and is protected by the tendon of ihe common extensor. The Lateral Ligament extends obliquely from the posterior tubercle of the lower end of the metacarpal bone to the anterior tubercle of the proximal end of the first phalanx. It is a powerful ligament, the ex- ternal being the stronger, though less strong than is the same structure between the phalanges. It is stretched by flexion, and relaxed by extension. The plan of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb recalls that of an inter-phalangeal joint in pre- senting a small anterior pad, in possessing lateral ligaments, and in retaining the phalangeal character of both articular facets. The Transverse Ligaments, four in number, unite by loose broad bands the heads of the four median metacarpal bones. They can be felt in the undissected hand beneath the skin of the interdigital spaces. According to Holden, a furrow of the palm, run- ning transversely across the lower third, " corre- sponds pretty nearly with the metacarpal joints of the fingers, with the upper limit of the synovial sheaths of the fingers (that of the little finger ex- cepted); also with the splitting of the palmar fascia into its four slips." The transverse metacarpal liga- ment lies in the same line with the joint. A little below the skin-furrow the digital arteries bifurcate to run along the sides of the fingers. THE INTER-PHALANGEAL JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS. The plan of these joints is so similar to the fore- going as not to need a detailed description. The distal surface of each joint is depressed toward the sides and raised in the middle, while the proximal surface is raised at the sides and depressed in. the middle. This peculiarity is least marked in the joint between the second and the third phalanges. Exceed- ingly stout lateral ligaments strengthen each joint that is otherwise unprotected save on the palmar surface where a fibro-cartilaginous pad is seen. Over this structure the tendons of the flexor muscles play. Movements.—Flexion and extension are here alone possible. A slight degree of rotation is secured by manipulation. Prof. Cleland' has described stout ligamentous structures extending from the sides of the phalanges, to be inserted into the skin. He assumes that such bands aid in retaining the different parts of the integu- ment in the positions which they are adapted to occupy. The inter-phalangeal joints correspond to the "knuckles." The line of each joint lies immediately in advance of the main prominence of the "knuckle" in flexion, and of the transverse concave skin-grooves in extension. THE JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE LOWER EXTEEIVIITY. The Joints and Ligaments of the lower extremity embrace the following:— Those of the Pelvis. Those of the Hip. Those of the Knee. Those of the Leg. Those of the Ankle. Those of the Foot. The Joints and Ligaments of the Pelvis. The bones of the pelvis are held together by four joints and their respective ligaments. The joints are as follows:-—• The Ilio-Sacral The Symphysis Pubis. The Sacro-Coccygeal. the ilio-sacral joint. The two Ilio Sacral Joints are of the nature of symphysis, and in each instance are formed by the ap- position of the auricular facet of the innominate bone against the lateral surface of the sacrum, a thin disk of fibro-cartilage intervening. This disk is friable, and frequently possesses a small cavity containing a glairy fluid. The ligaments of the ilio-sacral joint are— The Ilio-Lumbar. The Anterior Ilio-Sacral. The Posterior Ilio-Sacral. ' Journ. of Anat. and Phys., 1878, 526.