THE T the Diaphragm and the Triangularis Sterni muscle. Its borders are attached to the aponeuroses of the abdominal muscles.—The ensitbrm cartilage is the most variable portion of the sternum. Instead of being spatula-like, it may be rounded, or forked. It may be deflected from the median line, or even turned directly backward. It is sometimes furnished with foramina.—According to Sibson,' the basal half inch of the ensiform cartilage receives at its side the fibres of the Diaphragm that appear in the notch between the cartilage and the seventh rib. The pleura lines these fibres posteriorly. Structure.—The sternum is composed of small, very vascular cancelli, inclosed between the anterior and the posterior walls. Articulations.-—The sternum articulates with the clavicles and the costal cartilages from the first to the seventh inclusive. 'Development.—The first centre of development appears in the manubrium at the fifth or the sixth month of foetal life, and is usually single. The upper portion of the gladiolus forms a distinct segment, and arises from a single centre at the seventh month. For the remaining three segments the centres ordinarily appear in pairs within the first year. The ensiform process does not ossify until the sixth year. The gladiolus is complete about the twenty-fifth year. The sternum rarely or never completely ossifies, except in old age. Thus the manubrium and the gladiolus are united by cartilage. The remaining portions, however, coalesce. The junction between the ensiform process and the gladiolus is perfected at about middle life, and the different portions of the gladiolus from the twentieth to the fortieth year. Congenital defects of the sternum ordinarily have their origin in the failure of the bi-lateral centres of the gladiolus to unite in whole or in part. Remarks.—The sternum from its cancellated struc- ture is a relatively vascular bone, and responds to diseased action very much after the manner of spongy bone elsewhere. It is, as a consequence, a frequent site of caries, particularly in the negro ; it is the locality to which the pains of constitutional syphilis are com- monly referred. It yields readily to pressure, as from an aortic aneurism, and can be perforated by sharp cutting instruments.—The sternum is subject to con- ' Medical Anatomy, 1. c. R U N K 163 siderable variation in form. Thus, the two clavicular facets may not be of exactly the same height; a sup- plemental pair of costal cartilages are rarely appended to the base of the ensiform cartilage. As already mentioned, one or more rounded openings, resulting from defective ossification, are occasionally seen in the gladiolus. Instances have been collected of punctured wounds received through such spaces—while medi- astinal abscesses have opened through them.^ The transverse line between the manubrium and the gladiolus is often so pronounced as to resemble an old fracture.—-The ensiform cartilage, when deformed either by growth or by vicious position after injury, may by its backward pressure excite irritation.^ The sternum is covered by fibrous tissue on all its surfaces, recalling in both position and use the peri- osteum. The anterior fibrous layer is composed of fibres which cross one another in every direction, and which are closely adherent to the surface, of the bone and the cartilages. The posterior layer is composed chiefly of longitudinal bands of white fibrous tissue, which are but slightly adherent to the bones and the costo-sternal articulations.' It is much stouter than the anterior, and in dislocation of the parts of the sternum on each other may be stripped from the bone. In the now nearly obsolete operation of trephining the sternum, this membrane is an obstacle to the easy removal of the circle of bone.* The joint between the manubrium and the gladio- lus, according to Maisonneuve,* is either fibrous or diarthrodial; it is fibrous in character in about twent}^- five per cent, of cases, and diarthrodial in seventy-five per cent. The joint is rarely obliterated.'' When the diarthrodial joint exists, the layer of fibro-cartilage belonging to the gladiolus is continued on each side without interruption to the facet destined for the cartilage of the second rib, whilst the layer belonging to the manubrium adheres to the upper border of the second costal cartilage. The latter slip is separated as a rule from the manubrium by a synovial membrane. It is absent in about three per cent, of specimens. It follows upon this arrangement, according to Maisonneuve, that the second rib is much ' Cruveilhier, Anatomy of the Human Body (Am. ed.), 1844, 65. 2 Blandin, Topograph. Anat., Doane edition, 1834, 163. ' Jno. H. Brinton, Am. .Journ. Med. Sci., 1867, 39. * Hyrtl, Topograph. Anat., i. 548. 5 Archives Generales de Medecine, iii. Serie, xiv. 1842. « Brinton, Jno. H., L c. W. Rivington, Med.-Chir. Trans., Ivii., 1874, 112, found one-half per cent, to be fibrous, one-third to be diarthrodial, and the remainder to be intermediate between the two already named, or obliterated by ossification. The diarthrodial form is more commonly met with in males than in females.