THE TEL VIS oOO^^OOo 187 The pelvis receives its name from its rude resem- blance to a basin. The brim of the basin must be considered as broken in front and behind; the latter opening, however, is in part occupied by the last lumbar vertebra. The pelvis is divided by the ilio-pectineal line, and by the portions answering to the production of this line backward upon the sacrum, and forward upon the pubis, into the true and the false pelvis. The false pelvis (great pelvis) is in connection with the wall of the abdomen, which it aids to support; it is concave for the accommodation in part of the intestinal coil, and for the ovaries and the beginning of the Fallopian tubes in the female. The true pelvis (lesser pelvis) accom- modates the internal organs of generation, the rectum, and in part the bladder. It is closed inferiorly by the perineum. The superior outlet of the true pel- vis is called the Z/rm, or the superior strait. Its figure is cardiform, the base answering to the pro- montory of the sacrum, the sides and the apex to the ilio-pectineal line. The inferior outlet is called the inferior strait or outlet. It is of an irregular out- line. In front it answers to the triangular space de- fined by the conjunction of the ascending limb of the ischium and the descending limb of the pubis on each side of the symphysis pubis; at the sides it answers to the double sinuate line, extending from the tuber- osity of the ischium to the sacrum. As already men- tioned, tbe great sacro-sciatic ligament defines the in- ferior strait laterally in the ligamentous pelvis. The walls of the true pelvis are straight and smooth at the sides and at the back, and concave at the back and the front. 71. The pelvis seen from above, showing the position of the sagittal, frontal, and oblique diameters. The Diameters of the Pelvis. (Fig. 71.)—The im- ]iortance of a knowledge of the pelvis in connection with the science of obstetrics has led observers to carefully define its diameters. These will be pre- sented in the following order:— The conjugate diameter (antero-posterior, sagittal) of Nagele is a line drawn from the promontory of the sacrum to the superior margin of the symphysis pubis. It measures at the Superior strait . . . • 4| inches. Cavity 5i " Inferior strait . . . .5 " The transverse diameter is a line drawn between the acetabula, as follows :— Superior strait .... 6^^ inches. Cavity 4|-5 " Inferior strait .... 4—if " The following are the oblique diameters:— Superior strait . . . .5 inches. Cavity 5i " Inferior straight . . . 4|- " The pelvis not being exactly symmetrical, the right oblique diameter is somewhat shorter than the left. Hermann Meyer describes a diameter named by him the normal conjujjate. This line passes from the middle of the anterior surface of the third sacral vertebra to the upper border of the symphysis pubis. It is accepted as a more constant measure- ment than the conjugate, since it is not subject to material variation from the^ position of the pelvis or from the vertebral column. Meyer recommends in order to make satisfactory measurements of the pel- vis that the observer place the anterior superior spin- ous process of the ilium and the spine of the pubis on the same vertical line, the body to be erect, as in the act of standing, and the limbs to be neither ab- ducted nor adducted. The most important of the external measurements of the pelvis are the following :—• Between the anterior superior spinous processes, 10 inches; between the central points of the crests of the ilia, 10 inches; between the spinous process of the last lumbar vertebra and the upper border of the symphysis pubis (external conjugate), 7 inches. The pelvis presents some striking sex distinctions. Thus the bones of the female pelvis (Fig. 72) are lighter in structure than are those of the male; the true pelvis is wide and short, and possesses a cvlin- drical figure, which, in the child-bearing woman, is so modified as to be slightly increased in its transverse over its antero-posterior diameter. In the male (fig. 1, Plate XXXII.), the true pelvis is narrow and high, and the figure is somewhat ovate from before back-