THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. 208 SUTURA, includes the union of bones aris- ing from membrane. The bone surfaces are varied. Table of Joints.' Haemonia, when the surfaces are smooth or slightly irregular. Squamosa, when they overlap like the scales of a fish. Dentata, when the edge of the hone is armed with tooth-like processes. Serrata, when the processes named in the last group are saw-like. SYNCHONDROSIS, includes the union with carti- lage of bones arising from that tissue. The bone surfaces are flat or irregular. SYMPHYSIS, includes the union by means of fixed fibro-cartilage of bones which are without encrusting cartilages. The articular sur- faces of the bones are flat or nearly so. DIARTHROSIS, includes the union of bones that present to one another convex or concave surfaces of encrust- ing cartilages, and are covered with synovial membrane. Diarthrotic joints are called Artheodial when the curvatures are faintly expressed. They are called Spherical when tlie curvatures are pronounced and their radii equal. They are called Cylindrical when f Hinge, with a trochlear or pulley-like surface. the curvatures are pronounced i Screw, with axis oblique to axis of bone. and their radii unequal. (. Saddle, with opposed surfaces resembling those of a saddle. Conical, when the form is that of a cone. Composite, when the various features of diarthrosis are combined. Sutura vera (true) arti- culate by indented borders. ' The classification used by English writers (see Gray's Anatomy) is herewith presented for purposes of convenience in reference. Dentata, having tooth-like processes. As in interparie- tal suture. Serrata, having serrated edges, like the teeth of a saw. As in interfrontal suture. Limhosa, having Sutura. bevelled margins, Articula- and dentated pro- tion by • cesses, processes As in fronto-pa- and in- • [. rietal suture. Si/narthrosis denta- , Squamosa, formed or immovable tions in- by thin bevelled joint. Surfaces terlocked margins, overlap- separated by together. , w P'"S ^^'^^ other, fib^-ous mem- mCT"-f ^l^^^'""" brane, without culat b \ P'"^''**^^^^ suture, any intervening ■ o-l Harmonia, formed synovial cavity, • lougi sur- by the opposition of and immovably t contiguous rough connected with surfaces, each other. As in intermaxil- As in joints of ^ lary suture, cranium and Scliindijlesis. Articulation formed by the re- face (except ceplion of a thin plate of one bone into a fissure lower jaw). of another. As in articulation of rostrum of sphenoid witli vomer. Gomphosis. Articulation formed by the inser- tion of a conical process into a socket. The teeth. 1. Surfaces connected by fibro-cartilage, not separated by synovial membrane, and having Ampliiarthrosis. limited motion. As in joints between bodies of Mixed Articula- \ vertebrae. tion. 2. Surfaces covered by fibro-cartilage ; lined by a partial synovial membrane. As in sacro- iliac and pubic symphyses. Diarthrosis. Movable joint. Arthrodia. Gliding joint; articulations by plane surfaces, which glide upon each other. As in sterno- and acromio-clavicular articulations. Enarthrosis, Ball-and-socket joint; capable of motion in all directions. Articulations by a globular head received into a cup-like cavity.' As in hip and shoulder-joints. Ginghjmus. Hinge joint; motion limited to two directions, forwards and backwards. Arti- cular surfaces fitted together so as to permit of movement in one plane. As in tlie elbow, ankle, and knee. Diarthrosis rotatoria or Lateral Gini/hjmus. Arti- culation by a pivot process turning within a ring, or ring around a pivot. As in superior radio-ulnar articulation, and atlo-axoid joint. The above classification is based upon a mixture of form and function, and is arbitrary. The one proposed in the text is based upon form alone, and is in harmony with the facts of development. The main divisions of the old classification suggest three varie- ties of joint—the immovable, the mixed, and the movable. But joints either move or they do not; the language designed to de- scribe an intermediate, mixed joint is of necessity inexact. The varieties Schindylesis and Gomphosis are ignored in the classification of the text. The former is not a suture, since it occurs beween two bones of cartilaginous origin. It is a coap- tation, the result of an obliterated synchondrosis, a condition which does not demand a special name. The term "fissure" is inappro- priate for the sphenoidal aspect of the vomer. Of variable form, this surface is often narrowed, but never fissured.—The insertion of the teeth in sockets is in no sense articular. '"Gomphosis" should be omitted from a classification of joints. The term Symphysis is employed in place of "Amphiarthrosis," which, as a term having systematic value, is discarded. The pre- sence of a synovial sac in some forms of symphysis is not sufficient ground on which to base a distinct variety. Diarthrosis and its divisions are essentially the same as in the classification adopted in the text.