ONES. 202 THE lion with the sesamoid bones.-—The second is the long- est of the series. It possesses a slightly concave tri- angular proximal facet whose apex is directed down- ward. It presents a roughened, flattened tnbei'cle on the lateral side for ligamentous attachment with the third metatarsal bone. On the same surface the artic- ular surface is divided into two facets by a sulcus. —The third possesses a proximal, flat, triangular surface. The lateral surface for ligaments is con- vex. The articular facet on this side is somewhat triangular; the dorsal border is nearly straight; the groove beneath the single facet is well detined.—The fourth metatarsal presents a proximal articular surface which is triangular; its apical portion is depressed, so that the surface has the appearance of having two facets. The external facet for articulation with the fifth metatarsal is triangular, with a convex dorsal border; the groove is very well defined.—The fifth metatarsal bone possesses a compressed shaft whose proximal surface is flat or oblique. The median sur- face is large, with a small ridge on the proximal border, which is received within a groove upon the lateral surface of the fourth metatarsal. The lateral border is prolonged into a process proximally near the plantar surface, but separated from the articular surface by a groove. Synoptical Table of the Metatabsal Bones. The axis of the dorsal aspect of the distal surface cuts the proximal surface of the first, the second, and tlie third metatar- sal bones, as they articulate with the cuneiforms. Without lateral facets, and possessing grooves for fhe sesamoid bones on the distal surface. The proximal surface is reniform, with its dorsal border arranged transversely to the longitudinal axis ....... First. With facets on either side of the proximal extremity .......... Second, third, fourth. The external lateral surface with faintly marked groove, and flatfish tuberosity; proximal surface triangular, concave Second. The external lateral surface with facet concave, dorsal border straiglit ; the groove is narrow, detined ; the tube- rosity pronounced ; proximal surface triangular and flattened Third. The axis of the dorsal aspect of the distal surface does not cut the proximal surface of the fourth and the fifth metatarsal bones as they articulate with the cuboid. The lateral surface flat with convex dorsal borders ; the groove deep, the tuberosity pronounced. The proximal surface triangular with apical third depressed ............ Fourth. The facet on proximal end on one side only (median), external tubercle large ....... Fifth. THE PHALANGES. These agree with the characteristics of the corre- sponding bones of the hand to such a degree that little need be said in detail in this connection. The most marked peculiarities are the following :— The phalanges of the first toe are relativelv larger than the same bones of the hand, while those of the remaining toes are relatively smaller. The shafts of the bones, excluding those found in the great toe, are more compressed laterally. The phalanges of the fourth and fifth middle toes, as well as the first pha- lanx of the great toe, are apt to be deformed in the skeletons, as seen in our cabinets, by reason of the almost universal practice of wearing ill-fitting shoes. The sesamoid hones are placed on each side of the plantar surface of the distal end of the first metatarsal bone. They are osseous developments within the tendons of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis. They are faceted on their dorsal, but are free and roughened on their plantar surfaces. They can be felt obscurely beneath the skin in the undissected subject. THE FOOT. When the bones of the foot are in articulation with each other an elongated figure results, which is nar- row and compact behind; broad and spreading in front; convex above, but concave, irregular, or flat below. The bones of the tarsus are arranged in rows, with the exception of the astragalus which overlies the calcaneum. The distal surfaces of both the last- named bones advance to nearly the same level, and form the proximal surfaces of the 7nedio-tarsnl joint, to which the scaphoid and the cuboid bones con- tribute the distal surfaces. The tarsal (in advance of the medio-tarsal line) and the metatarsal bones are more or less arched transversely (frontally). The tarso - metatarsal joint is curved forward, and the median end is advanced beyond the lateral. Tlie proximal end of the second metatarsal bone is sunk in a depression called the mortise, between the first and the second metatarsal bones. The phalanges are arranged in a nearly flat series, and present proxiinal