216 THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. the condyloid process of the lower jaw, and that por- tion of the glenoid fossa in advance of the glenoid fissure, together with the articular eminence. The condyle is held in position by a capsular liga- ment which is weak in front and at the inner side, but stout behind and to the outer side. A portion of the oblique outer fibres extending from the root of the zygoma to the neck of the jaw has received the name of the external lateral liyainent. Upon the inner side of the joint, but not related to it, is a loose, fascia-like band, extending from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the inner mar- gin of the posterior dental foramen. This is called the internal lateral liyament. Between it and the lower jaw lie the internal maxillary artery and inferior dental nerve. Within the joint are— The Interarticular Disk. The Synovial Sacs. The Interarticular Disk is of an elliptical form, more broad than long. It is depressed toward the centre below, for the reception of the head of the lower jaw. Above it is depressed in front for the articular emi- nence, and is elevated behind for the glenoid fossa. A Synovial Sac is situated one above and one below the disk. The former is the larger and looser of the two. Both sacs may communicate through an opening not unfrequently present in the centre of the disk. The motions of the teniporo-maxillary articulation are a to-and-fro hinge-like motion, as seen in opening and shutting the mouth; and a lateral motion. In mod- erate antero-posterior movements the head lies within the glenoid fossa, but in pronounced depression of the lower jaw it glides forward upon the articular emi- nence. The Joints and Ligaments of the Thorax. Under the head of the joints and ligaments of the thorax are embraced— The Oosto-Yertebral Joints and Ligaments. The Costo-Transverse Ligaments. The Intercostal Joints and Lisjaments. The Costo-Sternal Joints and Ligaments. The Sternal Ligaments. The costo-vertebkal joints and ligaments are of two kinds: those placed between the heads of the ribs and the bodies of the Vertebrae—the Costo-Verte- brals proper; and those placed between the angles of the ribs and the transverse processes of the Verte- br8e—-the Costo-Transverse. The proper Costo-Vertebrals comprise— The Anterior Costo-Vertebral. The Capsular. The Interarticular. The Synovial Membrane. The Anterior Costo-Vertebral (stellate ligament) (figs. 4, 5, Plate XXXVI.) protects the head of the rib from in front. It is attached to the head of the rib, and passes in a radiate manner therefrom to the bodies of the adjacent vertebrae and the intervertebral disk. The su-perior fascicle (proper anterior costal) is at- tached to the body of the vertebra above; the middle fascicle (middle costo-vertebral) to the intervertebral fibro-cartilage ; and i\iQ inferior fascicle {inieuov costo- vertebral) to the vertebra below. The Capsular Ligament (fig. 5, Plate XXXVI.) is a delicate sac, inclosing the joint which unites the head of the rib and the vertebrae ; it is attached to the ante- rior ligament, where it is stouter than elsewhere. The Interarticular Ligament, absent in the first, eleventh, and twelfth ribs, extends from the ridge between the facets of the head of the rib to the inter- vertebral disk. While embraced within the capsule, the interarticular ligament is, properly speaking, not within the joint, since a Synovial Sac lies above it and another below it. The costo-teansverse ligaments embrace— The Superior Costo-Transverse. The Middle Costo-Transverse. The Posterior Costo-Transverse. The Capsular. The Synovial Membrane. EXPLANATION OF Fig. 1. The basilar portion of tlie occipital bone—togetlier with the atlas and the axis—sliowing tlie anterior ver- tebral ligament and two capsules opened. Fig. 2. A sagittal section of the vertebral column and pelvis, showing the various intervertebral and pelvic ligaments. PLATE XXXVIL Fig. 3. Tiie sternum, the costal cartilages, and the sternal ends of the clavicles, showhig tlie articular and liga- mentous attachments.