THE BONES. 182 >oo^oo-o • In general outline the first metacarpal bone re- sembles a phalanx. It is shorter and wider than the others, and is placed at a greater angle to the carpus. It is flat on the dorsal surface, and slightly concave, with a tendency to the formation of a ridge, on the palmar surface near its carpal extremity. The proximal surface is saddle-shaped. The distal surface is produced a little toward the palmar aspect. The articular surface is broader than it is long, and pre- sents on the sides two small facets for the sesamoid bones of the Flexor Brevis Pollicis muscle. The second metacarpal bone is ridged above at the proximal half of the dorsum for the Dorsal Interosse- ous muscles. The proximal surface is deeply concave for articulation with the trapezoid bone; and is irregu- larly faceted for articulation with the trapezium, while the ulnar side articulates with the third metacarpal bone, and at the same time is produced upward and inward to articulate by a small surface with the os magnum. The third metacarpal bone is a little smaller than the preceding. The proximal surface is triangular, with the apex of the figure truncated and directed toward the palmar surface. It is somewhat oblique, and articulates with the os magnum. At the dorsal surface on the radial border a small process projects upward. The radial border presents a single facet for the second metacarpal bone, and the ulnar has two facets for the fourth metacarpal. The fourth metacarpal bone is yet smaller than the third. Its proximal extremity presents two facets; one of these, the larger, articulates with the cunei- form bone, while the other is reserved for the os magnum. The radial border yields two facets for articulation with the third metacarpal, while the facet on the ulnar border is single for articulation with the fifth metacarpal bone. The axis of the proximal extremity may be deflected a little to the ulnar side of the axis of the shaft. The fifth metacarpal bone is more cylindrical than the others of the series. The dorsal surface is marked by a faint oblique ridge, to which are attached, at its radial side, the fourth Dorsal Interosseous muscle, and, at its ulnar side, the tendon of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris muscle. The proximal extremity presents a wide, saddle-shaped surface for articulation with the unciform bone. A single facet is seen at the lateral side of the end of the bone, while the ulnar side is free. Synoptical Table of tpie Metacarpal Bones. Proximal end with single facet, having a smooth, rounded dorsal border Shallow groove running transversely, no facet on either side ...... " " " " vertically, facet on median side ...... Proximal end with multiple facets, and uneven dorsal border ....... Palmar border acuminate. Three proximal and two median facets, dorsal border with central notch . " " truncate ........... One proximal with two median and two lateral facets ; dorsal border without notch, but having a large lateral process .......... First and fifth. First. Fifth. Second, third, and fourth. Second. Third and fourth. Third. One proximal, two lateral, and one median facet; dorsal border with neither notch nor process Fourth. PHALANGES. The phalanges (Plate XXX.) constitute the bony framework of the fingers. They are fourteen in num- ber: three to each of the fingers and two to the thumb. The general form of a phalanx is that of a semi-cylin- der, the convexity of which is dorsal and the con- cavity palmar. The proximal end is somewhat larger than the distaL Tlie borders are compressed, and marked on the palmar edges by ridges for the inser- tion of the tendons of the flexors of the fingers. The phalanges of the first row have their distal surfaces compressed from the dorsal to the palmar aspect, and form a series of narrow, rounded facets (most apparent on the palmar side) for articulation with the second row of bones. The median and lateral borders are each marked with a circular depression, to give attachment to the lateral ligaments. The proximal facet is circular and concave for the reception of the head of the corresponding metacarpal bone, and is marked by two tubercles, the inner of v/hich is com- monly the larger.—The phalanges of the second row present, proximally, two small concave facets, sepa- rated by a crest ranging from the palmar to the dorsal surface, for articulation with the distal surface of the first phalanx. Upon the sides are two tubercles for the insertion of the lateral ligaments. The first phalanx of the thumb, answering to the second of the other fin- gers, is distinguished by a body which is without ten- dinous impressions, and by borders which are smooth and simple; of these the ulnar border is more concave than the radial. The distal surface is not marked by a crest, and the tubercle on the radial side of the articular surface is more pronounced than that on the ulnar. The phalanges of the third row (ungual phalanges) diminish abruptly from the proximal surface forward.