198 THE B Structure.—The calcaneum presents a stout layer of compact tissue beneath the posterior astragalar articular surface and the depression in front of it; a second at the inferior surface by the bone directly beneath the foregoing; a third in the sustentaculum tali; and a fourth, much weaker, at the caboidal sur- face. Elsewhere the interior is cancellous, and is composed for the most part of beautiful curved lines arranged in two sets, one extending from the cuboidal surface to the tuberosity, and concave upward; and the other ranging from the posterior astragalar sur- face to the tuberosity, and concave downward. A third set of radiating laminae passes from the de- pression for the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament forward to the cuboidal surface. The laminae at the upper half of the bone are coarser than those at the lower half. . Remarks.—In talipes equinus the calcaneum is slightly raised, and assumes an oblique position. The degree of the elevation is more apparent than real, and is, indeed, more marked in equino-varus than in true equinus. The bone may be in con- tact with the tibia behind. In talipes varus the calcaneum is drawn upward by the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles, and occupies a very oblique, al- most vertical position, with a slight inclination in- ward. The calcaneum in the new-born child presents a smaller portion of the astragalar surface upon the outer aspect of the bone than in the adult.^ The sustentaculum tali is enlarged in acquired talipes val- gus; but is relatively small in talipes varus. Necro- sis attacks the calcaneum with relative frequency. The centre of ossification has been lost by necrosis in a child aged three years, as in a case reported by Mr. Birkett.^ Necrosis of the tibia of the corresponding side ensued. Geo. Buchanan^ reports a case of excision of the calcaneum. The Astragalus.—The astragalus is, next to the calcaneum, the largest bone in the tarsus. It is placed between the bones of the leg above, the calca- neum beneath, and the scaphoid bone in front. It is irregularly cubical in shape, and, as iTSually stated, is composed of a body, a head, and a neck. The lody answers in a general way to the surfaces of contact with the bones of the leg and the calcaneum, as well as to those occupied by the ligaments attached to the 1 Huetter, Langenbeck's Archiv, iv., 1863, 476. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., vi., 1856, 288. 3 Edinburgh Med. Journ., 1876, 869. astragalus. The head is a synonym for the articular surface for contact with the scaphoid bone and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The nech is the constriction between the bodjr and the head. It is better defined laterally (where it is narrow and de- pressed) than medianly (where it is broad, and makes up part of the median border of the foot) or infe- riorly (where, indeed, its line bisects the calcaneal articular surface.) In a more exact manner the astragalus is said to be made up of six surfaces: the superior, the inferior, the anterior, the posterior, and the two lateral sur- faces. The s7iperior surface is for the most part occupied by the large facet for articulation with the axial distal surface of the tibia. It is narrower behind than in front; concave near the centre, but convex toward the two sides, the lateral side being the wider. In advance of the facet the superior surface includes the de- pressed proximal aspect of the neck.—The inferior surface is very irregular, and embraces three facets and a deep groove. The posterior facet for the cor- responding posterior facet of the calcaneum is con- cave, broader behind than in front. It is obliquely placed to the axis of the bone, and, with reference to this axis, is disposed in the main to the lateral side. In front lies a deep groove for the attachment of the in- terosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. The remain- ing facets are contiguous in front of the. groove, and include the oval surface for articulation with the ante- rior calcaneal facet, and a small ribbon-shaped facet (the head in part) for articulation with the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament.—The anterior surface (the head in part) is an oblong, convex surface, whose longest diameter lies nearly at a right angle to the axis of the bone, but with an inclination downward and inward. It articulates with the scaphoid bone.— The pjosterior surface is a roughened, narrow ledge intervening between the tibial and the calcaneal articular surfaces. It is grooved toward the median side for the tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis. This groove is a valuable sign by which the surgeon can identify the astragalus in backward dislocation of this bone.—The median surface (inner) is irregu- lar, and inclined a little inward. It is marked above, where it joins the superior surface at an angle, by a pear-shaped articular facet, for articulation with the internal malleolus. The base is directed forward, and lies in advance of the lateral articular facet. Below and behind this facet is the roughened surface for the attachment of the deltoid ligament. The median surface forms a well-defined limitation to the