THE BONES. 152 splienoid are with the pharynx, while those of the ethmoid spine are with the nasal cliarnber. Indeed, tine anterior surface of the body of the sphenoid, in- cluding the sphenoidal sinuses, is as much facial in its relations as it is cranial. Remarks.—The spheno-maxillary space will readi- ly receive prolongations of tumors originating in the nasal fossa after the thin vertical plate of the palatal bone has been absorbed. Nasal polyp has been de- scribed as thus disposed; and Greco^ has discovered a multiple form of morbid growth of obscure origin passing in the manner described from the nasal cham- ber to this space. Mr. Prescott Hewett^ describes a tumor growing from the exterior base of the skull that pushed its way through the sphen<i-palatine foramen into the spheno- maxillary space, and thence through the pterygo- maxillary fissure into the zygomatic fossa, and by this region round the zygomatic surface of the superior maxilla to appear upon the cheek. A specimen is preserved in Guy's Hospital, London, of a cartilagi- nous tumor at the base of the skull, which had advanced into the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary space. It had involved the orbits, nasal chambers, and the maxillary sinuses. . Langenbeck^ diagnosed a fibroid tumor originating in the spheno-maxillary space, which involved the nasal chamber and naso-pharynx by passing medianly through the enlarged spheno-palatine foramen. The nasal septum was deflected to the right, and the left choana was obstructed. The mass also extended laterally to invade the zygomatic fossa, and superiorly to enter the orbit and to press the eye outward. In an operation for the removal of the tumor the parts were found enlarged to three times their normal size. A small but noticeable crest is frequently seen on either side of the vomer, which aids in defining the posterior nares. This crest sometimes extends across the upper arc of the posterior nares so as to rest upon ' Archiv. de Med., xxiii. 431. 2 Med.-Chir. Trans., xxxiv. 47. 3 Deutsche Klinik., 1861 ; also, Med. Times and Gazette, 1861 (abstract). the sphenoidal process of the palatal bone. This out- growth may receive the name of the vomerine crest. It serves to separate the roof of the pharynx from the cavity of the nose. Specimens have been met with in which the crest has shown evidences of thickening from inflammation. THE FACE. The face (figs. 1 and 4, Plate XXII.) is that portion of the skull designed to protect the eyes, the nose, and the teeth, and in connection with the latter to define the osseous parts entering into the construction of the mouth. The face is of a triangular figure. One of the sides answers to the exterior Base of the skull in advance of the external auditory meatus, and may be called the sMpenor border. Another extends from the upper margin of the orbits to the lower margin of the infe- rior maxilla, and constitutes the anterior lorder or surface. The remaining border of the figure is the inferior^ and is defined by the lower margin of the inferior maxilla. The Orbits.—-The orbits are two conical cavities lodged for the most part in the face, but defined in part by the bones of the brain-case, and designed to accommodate the eyeball and accessory parts. Each' orbit presents for examination a median (inner), and a lateral (outer), wall, a roof, and a floor.—The median (inner) wall is nearly straight, but slopes a little out- ward as it joins the floor. It is composed of the os planum of the ethmoid bone, and of the lateral surface of the lachrymal bone.—The lateral (outer) wall is more obliquely placed to the median line of the face than is the inner. It is composed in great part of the or- bital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. In advance of this surface lies the frontal pro- cess of the malar bone. The outer wall is defined in- feriorly in part by the spheno maxillary fissure.—The roof of the orbit is slightly concave. It is composed of the orbital plate of the frontal bone, excepting at its apex, where a small portion of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone is lodged.—The floor of the orbit is continuous with the median wall, but separated from EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIII. Fig. 1. The skull, seen from beneatlj (exterior base). | Fig. 2. The base of the skull, seen from within (interior base).