113 THE CERVICAL VERTEBRAE. OOO^OOO sive find bifid, and beneath is grooved its entire length. The superior articular process is placed near the base of the odontoid process. It is concave from side to side. Its outer half lies directly above the trans- verse process, projects in front, and faces upward. The inferior articular process is not placed beneath the superior but upon the lamina. It is inclined up- ward, forward, and faces forward. Tlie transverse jjroccss is placed beneath the supe- rior articular process. It extends abruptly downward and backward. The process is but faintly grooved above. Its foramen is directed outward. Structure.—The cancelli are figured by Luschka as more compact in the odontoid process than in the body. Humphry describes and figures this com- pactness as decided. The denser part forms a division between the more cancellous apex and the rest of the process. K. Bardeleben' figures the process as almost entirely compact. Dr. C. T. Hunter has detected in the process a special arrangement of trabecular fibres beneath this compact tissue much weaker than those ordinarily met with in the interior of the other ver- tebrte. In the judgment of this observer the fre- quency of fracture at the neck is hereby explained. It is evident from the foregoing statements that the odontoid process is more compact than the rest of the axis, but that in the degree of its compactness and arrangement of the cancelli at its neck there is some variation.—Dr. Reid^ has recorded an instance of conical exostosis of the odontoid process which in- duced compression of the spinal cord and death. P. Devan^ reports a case in which the odontoid pro- cess which had been separated from the body of the axis by fracture, had united to the edge of the fora- men magnum, thus emphasizing the relation occa- sionally seen between these parts in the uninjured subject. Remarks.—As an exceedingly rare formation the tip of the odontoid process may be prolonged upward and articulate with the anterior border of the fora- men magnum. According to Luschka, the tip of the spinous process receives a distinct centre of ossifica- tion. The neck of the odontoid process is the weakest part of the bone, and that portion which is most fre- ' Beitrage zur Anatomie der Wirbelsaule, Jena, 1874, Faf. 1, fig. 2.3. 2 LoikI. and Edin. Jonrn. Med. Sci., 1843. 3 Dublin Medical FreiiS, Feb. 18, 1863. 15 quently the seat of fracture. Humphry^ describes this as a very rare condition, he having seen but two examples. THE SEVENTH CERVICAL VERTEBRA. Tiie seventh cervical vertebra presents the follow- ing peculiarities: The articular processes are almost vertical, are not supported by small columns, and do not lie directly one above the other. The foramen at its base does not transmit the vertebral artery. The body is without median projection. There is sometimes one-fourth of a facet for articulation with the head of the first rib. The lateral extension of the lower surface of the vertebra may be almost entirely absent. The spinous process is very large, resembles that of a dorsal vertebra, and is without a groove. While not bifid it is much larger than any other of the cervical series, and forms in the sub- ject a distinct prominence beneath the skin. From this feature the bone has received the name of the " vertebra prominens." The process gives attachment to the nuchal ligament. According to Luschka the spinous process is often fractured. It was once so found by this observer in the body of an epileptic pa- tient under circumstances suggestive of the fact that the lesion had occurred as the result of a fall during a convulsion. Remarks upon the Cervical Vertebr^zE as a Whole.—The portion of the spine composed of the cervical vertebras is at once the most flexible and most varied in form, while the most constant in the number of its elements. The position of the cervical vertebrte can be made out in a satisfactory degree in the living subject. The fact that the anterior surfaces of the bodies lie directly behind the pharynx and the beginning of the oesoph- agus enables the finger to freely define the position of the second to fifth vertebrae through the posterior wall of the pharynx. The rounded nodule on a level with the base of the uvula is the atlas. It varies in degree of prominence. It is not to be confounded with a transverse fold of induration seen in the same neighborhood in certain abnormal conditions of the pharynx. The smooth surface directly in view when the mouth is open answers to the axis, which extends. from the position of the nodule to the tip of the epi- glottis. Behind the free portion of the epiglottis lies the body of the third vertebra ; behind the fixed por- ' Loe. cit. 131.