THE VEETEBR^. c-OO^^^OCXs 109 one strictly confined to the sides of the bodies, but that tlie hinder parts of the sides, or the points of confluence of the arches and bodies, are involved, viz., at the points at which the vertebras remain cartilaginous after the rest of the bodies and arches have become ossified. It is certainly suggestive that these curvatures are common in young grow- ing persons. In consequence of the above-named parts yielding, the bodies become twisted or rotated a little to the opposite side. This writer calls the motion thus described the vertebral twist, and states that it is an almost constant accompaniment of lateral curvature. A. B. Judson' has also arrived at the conclusion that a rotatory motion of the Ijodies of the vertebras is present in lateral curvature, and, indeed, initiates the movement. His theorem, which is stated independently of Humphry's, and varies therefrom, is based upon the fact that the posterior portion of the vertebral column, being a part of the relatively fixed dorsal parietes of the chest and abdomen, is confined to the median line of the trunk; while the anterior portion, projecting as it does into the thoracic and abdominal chambers, and being devoid of lateral attachments, is at liberty to move to the right and left of the median line. By means of an appropriate apparatus, this observer induces lateral curvature with rotation of the vertebrae by vertical pressure received upon the summit of a vertebral column whose base is fixed. Double curvature with rotation in each curve may be produced by confining one of the dorsal vertebrae at the same time that pressure is exerted from above. These experiments appear to have been made on an artificial preparation of the spine, without ligaments. They need repetition on a trunk with, ligaments, muscles, ribs, diaphragm, and liver in place before the results can be accepted.—-The rotatory motion is freer at the upper part of the dorsal region than elsewhere, being slight in the neck, and absent in the loin and its transition to the dorsal region. According to W. Adams,^ " The articular processes undero'o very important structural changes at an early period of the formation of lateral curvature. The articular facets become altered in their direction and aspects, according to the extent of the lateral deviations of the bodies of the vertel)ne—thus in- creasing in degree of alteration in proportion to the severity of the case. In the lumbar region where these articular processes are naturally nearly vertical ' Trans. N. Y. Acart. of Med., 1S76, 315. Literature. 2 W. Ailaiiis, Med. Times and (iazelte, Dec. 7, IStil, 574. in direction—looking inwards and outwards respect- ively—they gradually assume in a severe case of lateral curvature a very oblique direction. In lateral curvature with rotation, the transverse pro- cesses are depressed towards the abdominal cavity, and, in severe cases, cannot be felt by external exam- ination ; whilst those on the convexity of the curve project backwards towards the skin, and may even rise to the level of the apices of the spinous pro- cesses, and be readily felt along the outer margin of spinal muscles, which they also protrude backward and are rendered prominent. This deviation in the direction of the transverse processes is extremely important in a diagnostic point of view, and will enable the observer to diagnose a curvature in the lumbar region in cases in which no lateral deviation of the spinous processes exists." The intervertebral foramina.—The interver- tebral foramina vary in different regions. They are more forward in the neck, where they are small and round, than in the loins. The spines.—The spines are arranged in accord- ance with their degrees of motility. They are directed either horizontally backward or .slightly downward in the neck and loins—but downward and backward in the dorsal region, where they overlap. In the neck they are distinct and wide apart, and permit the liga- menta sub-flava to be seen from without. In the region of the back they overlap. In the loin, while not overlapping they nearly touch one another, and protect the vertebral canal and contents. Homologies.—Study of the development of the vertebrte has proved that the transverse processes of dift'erent vertebrae are not of the same homological value. The anterior tubercle of the transverse ]irocess of a cervical vertebra represents, it is thought, a rudi- ment of a rib, since it answers in position to tiie rib of a dorsal vertebra, and arises from a distinct centre of ossification. In like manner the transverse process of a lumbar vertebra may be held to be homologous to a rib. The transverse process of a dorsal vertebra is homologous to the posterior tubercle of a cervical vertebra, as well as to the accessory process of a lumbar. Reference to this arrangement furnishes the true explanation of the anomaly of the anterior tu- bercle of one of the lower cervical vertebras being found as a true rib-like quantity.