231 THE KNEE-JOINT <><><>^<>Oo- and the inner side with an aponeurotic expansion from the Vastus Internus and the Sartorius muscles, and at the front and the outer side with an expansion from the fascia lata. The capsular ligament is strengthened by the Uga- mentum patellse—a structure representing the tendon of the Quadriceps Extensor muscle as it lies between the patella above and the tubercle of the tibia below. It is slightly broader at its upper than at its lower attachment, and is continuous at its outer margin with the capsule. Between the ligament and the skin is lodged a quantity of fat, while between the liga- ment and the tibia lies an important bursa. Behind, the thick, flat, and unyielding capsule (here often called the Ligamentum Winslowi) is composed for the most part of vertical fibres, which are to some degree in association with the tendons of the Gastro- cnemius, the Popliteus, and the Plantaris muscles. A well-defined superficial oblique bundle (oblique fasci- culus), which serves as a reflection of the tendon of the Semimembranosus muscle, is directed upward and outward. Under the name of the ligamentum arciiatum is described a fascicle which is attached above at the outer femoral condyle, and below to the inter-condyl- oid fossa beneatli tlie oblique bundle. The deepest portion of this accession answers to the capsule, as it covers the bursa lying beneath the tendon of the Pop- liteus muscle. At its lower border the fascicle re- ceives some of the fibres of the Popliteus muscle, as well as a few ligamentous bands attached below to the head of the fibula between the insertion of the Biceps and the origin of the Soleus muscle. Notwithstanding its great strength the posterior portion of the capsule will yield to pressure from an abscess or aneurism. In this manner pus or blood may reach the interior of the joint from the ham. Of the former lesion J. Adams' reports an example. In the course of the treatment of an abscess which had been opened through the skin this writer observed that the pus ceased flowing at a time coincident with swelling of the joint. A free incision being made, a quantity of pus escaped from the interior of the joint, and an opening was discovered in the posterior cap- sular fibres, by means of which the abscess in the ham had communicated with the joint. Both the Ligamentum Winslowi and the popliteal artery have been ruptured by the fall of a sack of wheat on the thigh. The External Lateral Ligaments are two in number —the long and the short ligament. The long liga- ment is a stout rounded cord extending from a small prominence situated above the sulcus, near the Popliteus muscle, and in front of the point of origin of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius. It passes downward on the line of the fibula, and is attached to the outer part of the head of that bone. A bursa is often seen between it and the tendon of the Biceps. The ligament closely resembles the last-named ten- don, and passing as it does along its anterior border may be confounded therewith. Inferiorly it becomes united with the tendon, and sends an expansion to the patella. The short exlernal lateral ligament is a fasciculus, variable in size, attached above to the outer femoral tuberosity, and passing downward and outward to the styloid process of the fibula. It is often connected with the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and may end either on the capsular ligament or the tibial aponeu- rosis. The Internal Lateral Ligament is a broad mem- branous expansion passing from the inner femoral condyle from a point below tlie tubercle for the attachment of the Adductor Magnus muscle, down- ward and outward to be attached to the correspond- ing tuberosity and the anterior surface of the shaft of the tibia. Superficially the ligament, as it lies on the tibia, is in relation with the aponeurotic structures of the tendons of the Sartorius, the Gracilis, from which it is separated by a bursa, and the Semitendi- nosus muscles, and, on a deeper plane, with the aponeu- rosis of the Vastus Internus muscle. Beneath lies a considerable portion of the Semimembranosus muscle. The deeper fibres of the ligament are attached to the posterior part of the corresponding interarticular cartilage, and is in contact with the synovial mem- brane. The ligament is further attaclied to the aponeurosis covering the Popliteus muscle, and to the oblique fibres of the ligament of Wiuslow. Rupture of the internal lateral ligament with dis- placement of the semilunar cartilages is instanced in the following case recorded by Adams.' A man aged thirty-two while in the sitting position received a blow upon the inner part of the knee. Forced ab- duction followed with undue mobility. An abnormal interval measuring three-fourths of an inch iu width existed between the extremity of the femur and the head of the tibia. Recovery was secured with a good limb. The Interarticular Cartilages (semilunar cartilages ' Lancet, 1859, 155. • Mwl. Times and Gaz., 1857, 603.