146 THE BONES. In estimating the amount of force required to fracture the bones, as well as that required to conduct the operation of trepanning, the possibility of the occurrence of a cranial vault with thin brittle walls should never be forgotten. The vault is always thinner at the point of contact with the Pacchionian bodies upon its under surface than it is elsewhere. While a general relation between the form and volume of the brain and the brain-case is conceded to exist no exact correlation can be detected between the two. The large side of the cranium may corre- spond to the smaller cerebral hemisphere. The inner and outer layers of the skull may separate widely; and the outer may not be concentric or parallel to the inner. The frontal sinus is of varying size, and bears no relation to the size of the related cerebral lobes; nor do the details of the interior of the brain- case correspond to the inequalities of the cerebral convolutions. The Sutures of the Cranial Yault.—The su- tures of the cranial vault are the interparietal or sagittal^ the frojito-parietal or coronal, and the occipito- parietal or lamhdoidal. At the sides of the vault the lower ends of the coro- nal and lambdoidal sutures are seen. In addition the fronto-malar unites the external angular process of the frontal bone with the frontal process of the malar bone; and in the temporal fossa sutures are formed by the union of the antero-inferior angle of the parietal bone with the tip of the greater wing of the sphenoid bone {parieio-sphenoid\ with the parietal bone and the squamous portion of the temporal bone {parieto- squamosal), and with the postero-inferior angle of the parietal bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal bone [parieto-mastoid).—The anterior portion of the temporal fossa is marked by the nearly vertical fronto- sphenoidal and sphenoido-squamosal sutures. The occiput exhibits the greater portion of the oc- cipito-parietal suture and a portion of the vertical limb of the 7nasto-occipital. The forehead retains sutures with the facial bones where the frontal bone articulates with the frontal, sphenoid, ethmoid, lachrymal, superior maxillary, and nasal bones. These several sutures can be readily named by combining the names of the two bones en- tering into them. The unscientific name '■'■transverse suture^^ is sometimes given to all the sutures above named. The suture in the median line of the frontal bone of the skull of the infant forms the frontal su- ture. It rarely persists in the adult. The sutures of the vertex are variously dentated, while those of the base are slightly sinuate or straight. The degree of indentation is subject to great variety, yet presents a regular plan of distribution which may be thus epi- tomized : "the parietal bones, where they first nnite with one another, namely, about the middle third of the interparietal margin, exhibit dentations of a character diflerent from those at the anterior and posterior thirds. At the anterior third they are not pronounced, , and may be absent; at the posterior they are narrow and long.—The parietal bones unite with the frontal at the middle third of each half of the frontal bone, the upper and lower third presenting less coarse den- tations. The dentations often end abruptly at the intersection of the coronal suture with the upper mar- gin of the temporal fossa, the coronal suture below this point being, as a rule, sinuate or straight. The lambdoidal suture is coarsely dentate throughout. From the above it appears that the sutures are dentate in a degree proportionate to the places at which contact first occurred. In the region of the fontanelles (see succeeding section) the sutures are nearly straight or harmonic.—In the negro the denta- tions are less prominently developed than in other races. The Fontanelles and Disappearance of the Sutures.—The fontanelles are the spaces between the incomplete angles of the cranial bones. They are occupied by membrane, which gradually becomes os- sified as development advances. The fontanelles are four in number, and are formed in part by the four angles of each parietal bone. They are named the median and the lateral fontanelles. The anterior me- dian fontanelle, or great fontanelle, lies between the antero-superior portions of the parietal bones and the halves of the frontal. It is of a lozenge or spear-head shape, and continues by its angles with the sagittal, coronal, and frontal sutural interspaces. It is the largest of the fontanelles. It disappears from the tenth to the fifteenth month, holding in this respect a close relation with the rapidity of the development of the entire osseous system. In a quickly closing fontanelle the teeth appear soon, and the child walks early. In cases of retarded developm-ent, on the other hand, the fontanelle remains open and larger, and in- deed, though this is rare, it may persist through life.— The posterior median fontanelle is placed between the postero-superior anglesof the parietal bones and the oc- cipital angle. It is triangular in shape, and continuous with the lambdoidal and interparietal (sagittal) sutural interspaces. It is closed at birth or a few months after.—-The lateral fontanelles lie at the antero-inferior