THE TRUNK. 161 000^0-0-= ported by the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. The angle is almost absent, and no groove exists for the intercostal vessels and nerve. The sternal extremity is thicker than in any of the true ribs. The second rib agrees with the first in being more horizontal than the other ribs. Its head presents a fiiint interarticular ridge. It is marked upon its outer surfiice by a large rough surface for attachment of the Serratus Magnus muscle. The eleveyilh and iwelflh ribs yield larger curves than do the other ribs. Their inner surfaces opposite the neck are more inclined, while, as already seen, the anterior extremities arc narrowed. In addition to the above characters of the ribs the following may be considered with advantage in iden- tifying isolated ribs or fragments :— The facet of articulation with the transverse pro- cess of the vertebra is in the first rib carried upon the end of a short process, which is directed slightly downward, so that the end of the process is best seen upon the lower surface of the rib. The ribs from the first to the sixth seen in articulation from the in- terior of the thorax present at the point answering to the neck a vertical surface, and exhibit from the up- per borders of the smooth surfaces entering into the pulmonary sinus a slight crest for the anterior costo- transverse ligament. The ribs from the seventh to the twelfth present from within the thorax a slightly inclined surface at about the neck, and each bears a sharp crest at the upper border. Structure.—The ribs are cancellous throughout (being least so at the angle), with firm lateral walls. Development.—Each rib arises from a single centre of ossification for the body which appears as early as the eighth week, and from two small accessory cen- tres, one appearing in the head and the other in the tubercle. The rib is completed at about the twenty- fifth year. Remarks.—Deformity of the rib may be either con- genital or acquired. Dr. Robert Adams has recorded' an instance of congenital deformity of the first pair of ribs. The left rib was two inches long and straight, and presented a free projecting, somewhat flattened extremity, which was joined to the second rib by a • Dublin Path. Soc. Trans, lii. 288. 21 1839, quoted in Mc.l.-Chir. Trans. process ascending from the latter. The left sub- clavian artery ran in front of the distal extremity of the deformed rib as above described, and was supported by the bony elevation of the second rib. The right "first rib was shortened and malformed, and supported the right subclavian artery.—-A forked rib is one which sends ofi:" a process either above or below the main costal axis. It may end in an intercostal space, or, advancing forward, may be joined by an in- tercostal cartilage.—The sternal ends of the ribs are apt to be deformed in rickets.—Dislocation of the rib is a rare lesion.'—The ribs are among the most vascular of the bones, and are hence liable to caries and inflamma- tion.—The angles of some of the ribs are so roughened externally that a careless observer may mistake such appearances for the effects of old fractures. The inner aspect in such specimens is always smooth, and can thus be distinguished from ribs that have been fractured. The last cervical (see p. 114) and the first lumbar vertebra rarely bear rib-like processes. The last-named rib is the more frequent. The twelfth rib may be absent or smaller than usual.—-The ribs that are most exposed are those included between the fourth and the tenth, and these therefore sufter most from direct violence. In fracture the bone most fre- quently gives way at the angle or near the sternal end. THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. Attached to the sternal ends of the ribs are twelve cartilages which, from their resemblance to the ribs, have received the names of the costal cartilayes (fig. 4, Plate XXV.). In the upper ribs these carti- lages lie between the sternal ends of the ribs and the side of the sternum; in the lower ribs they either lie between the sternal ends of the ribs and the borders of adjacent ribs, or, as in the last two, they serve as tips simply to their respective bones. The cartilages of the false ribs aid in defining the inferior margin of the thorax anteriorly. The ends of each cartilage are convex, and are secured in correspond- ing depressions on the ribs and the sternum. The union of the cartilage with the corresponding rib is in all instances without articulation; but the union of the cartilage with the sternum is diarthrodic, except- ing that of the first rib. Respecting the shape of the costal cartilage it may be said that the costal portion of each cartilage is in the line of the sternal end of the rib to which it be- longs. In the ribs from the first to the fourth, and in