THE BONES 144 Avitbin the expanded and attenuated tables of the jaw. The central encapsuling fibrous tumor may involve the dental nerve, as described by T. Bryant' in a tu- mor which was removed from the left side of the body of the lower jaw of a boy nine years of age. It was of two years' duration, and followed a blow received six months before. The nerve was found running through the centre of the growth. It would appear that encephaloid disease may originate in the dental canal, judging by the case reported by Nunneley,^ in which the disease was ushered in by numbness of the left side of the lower lip. This was followed by vary- ing pains in the canine and in two adjoining teeth of the same side. The last molar was extracted with a view of relieving the toothache. The case, the nature of which now became evident, progressed rapidly to a fatal termination. 3d. The lower jaw being in the line of growth of epithelial tumors of the lower lip, secondary cancers from that source are not infrequently seen. In a case coming under the notice of the writer, the disease had progressed from the lip along the line of the right side of the horizontal portion, opening the oral cavity from the side and destroying the alveoli. The tongue, thus deprived of lateral support, lolled out- ward, and the saliva dropped continually upon the neck. Fortunately, these extreme degrees of destruc- tiveness are rare, but the probability of secondary involvements of the lower jaw from neglected epithe- lial cancer should never be overlooked. THE SKULL. The skull (figs. 1 and 2, Plate XXII.) is composed of the cranium and the face. It is convenient to in- clude between these divisions a third — the cranio- facial or intermediate portion. The term cranium is often applied to the entire- framework of the head, either with or without the lower jaw. In a more exact sense, the cranium is the hrain-case. The face is a region made up of bones that are in contact with mucous membrane—the malar bone alone excepted—and affords protection to the visual, olfactory, and dental organs, besides defining the nasal and oral cavities. The brain-case and the face are distinct in their development. The brain-case possesses a central tract—the cranio-basic axis—which corresponds in ' Trans. Path. Soc. London, 1858, 352. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, xiii. 1862, 215. general direction to that of the chorda dorsalis. It consists of the basilar process of the occipital bone and the body of the sphenoid bone. The vomer and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone represent parts of the cranio-basic axis projected into the face. The chorda dorsalis does not advance further than the posterior clinoid processes. The lateral portions of the occipital bone and the wings of the sphenoid bone arise in pairs from the axis. The nasal bones and incisorial portion of the superior maxilla descend from the primordial frontal process of the frontal bone. The remaining portion of each superior max- illa, together with the lower jaw, arises from the side of the base of the skull. Each of the facial bones not mentioned in the above category appears in its appropriate place as a separate ossicle having slight morphological significance. THE CRANIUM. The cranium is divided into the vault and the base. The Cranial Vault.—The cranial vault (figs. 1 and 2, Plate XXII.) is limited anteriorly by the supra- orbital arches and the fronto-nasal suture; laterally by the zygomatic arch, the orifice of the external auditory meatus, and a line running thence along the superior semicircular line to the occiput, which termi- nates the vault posteriorly. The slcullcap or calva- rium is defined by a horizontal section of the vault about one inch above the external angular process of the frontal bone. The cranial vault is an ovoidal figure, broader be- hind than in front, and abruptly narrowed behind the external angular processes. It is slightly compressed at the sides at the temporal fossge, and more or less expanded behind. The anterior portion of the vault is termed the frontal region or sincip)ut, the pos- terior the occijmt, and the top the vertex. The side is made up in great part of the temporal fossa. The forehead (sinciput) is defined inferiorly by the supra-orbital margins and the line of the fronto nasal suture; superiorly, by a transverse imaginary line half-way between the frontal eminences and the coro- nal suture; and, laterally, by the temporal ridges. Directly between the orbits, and extending thence downward one-half the height of the inner margin of the orbit and upward about an inch upon the supra-orbital curve, is a smooth, rounded space, with a faintly convex surface, called the nasal eminence (glabella). This eminence corresponds to the anterior wall of the frontal sinus, and varies in size according