GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. oOO^OOo 207 spicuous processes, descending both in front and behind the temporal cavity to embrace the neck of the lower jaw so that the otherwise shallow socket is deepened. May not the significance of all forms of deep sockets depend upon the development of these retaining check processes? and may not the greater limitation of motion in the hip compared with that of the shoulder be due to the circumferential check surfaces of the former ? SuTUBA.^ Sutures are the common mode by which the bones of the cranium unite, and they are not seen in any other part of the adult skeleton. They are gener- ally described as being of four kinds, as follows : The harmonic suture. This is defined where two nearly smooth surfaces are opposed. The irregularity of many parts of the harmonic suture gives the clue to the significance of the remaining three. Examples are seen between the two horizontal plates of the superior maxillae, and between the corresponding plates of the palatal bones.—TJie squamnsal suture. This variety is characterized by two bevelled surfaces which are opposed the one to the other. The outer overlaps the inner, and suggests an arrangement simi- lar to that existing between the scales of fishes. An example of the squamosal suture is seen in the human body in the union between the squamous portion of the temporal bone and the parietal bone.—The dentate suture. In this form tooth-like processes project from the opposed surfaces.—The serrate suture. This re- sembles the dentate, but is distinguished by the pro- cesses being more or less saw-like. The so-called lirnhose suture is a combination of the squamosal and serrate.—The interparietal suture is an instance of the dentate and the interfrontal of the serrate.—The sutures seen on the under surface of the calvarium are all harmonic, no matter what they may be upon the upper surface. Following upon external force an imperfectly defined motion is permitted between bones united by sutures that have not attained their full degree of development. The most important of these, according to P. Budin,^ takes place in the foetal skull at the suture between the ascending portion of the occipital bone and the centres at the sides of the foramen magnum. The motion of the former upon the latter is described by this writer as hinge-like in character. When the ascending portion is bent forward on the suture, it is ' For the classification of joints see the table on p. 208. 2 De la Tete du Foetus au Point duVue de I'Obstetrique. Paris, 1876, 72. said to be flexed, and when backward, to be extended. Budin believes that one or the other of these move- ments, according to the presentation of the head, always takes place during parturition. Synchondrosis. Synchondrosis serves' to unite the several centres in immature cartilage-bones. In the long bones it joins the epiphyses with the shaft, and the different centres of the irregular and tabular bones with one another. Good examples of synchondrosis are seen between the sphenoid and the occipital bones, at the costo-sternal articulation, in the body of the sternum, and among the different parts of the hyoid bone. The motion of synchon- drosis is exceedingly slight. Symphysis. The bone-surfaces in symphysis are flat and gently concave, as in the vertebra?, or irregularly sinuate, as in the pubic bones at the inter- pubic articulation. The surfaces are not free, but are held together by disks of fibro-cartilage, the short, tense fibres of which are so arranged that they are compactly interlaced toward the periphery, but are elastic and succulent toward the centre. In the inter- pubic articulation a synovial sac may be present. The bones uniting in a symphysis are further strengthened by accessory bands. Symphysis, as here defined, includes the amphi- arthrosis^ of the older writers. Meyer includes sym- physis under arthrodia,^ intending thereby to bring together all forms of broad and nearly flat movable articular surfaces. Examples of symphysis are seen between the bodies of the vertebrae (excluding the atlas and the axis), between the sacrum and the coccyx, between the pubic bones, and between the ilium and the sacrum. Both synchondrosis and symphysis require con- siderable exercise of force to disturb their equilibrium, and when the force ceases to act the joint surfaces resume the position of rest by reason of their own elasticity. Hence no forms of check or limiting mechanisms are met with in these joints. ' Ampliiarthrosis also embraced the union between the different carpal and tarsal bones, especially where flat surfaces were con- nected by interosseous ligaments. 2 The term " Arthrodia" is already in use to signify a group of articulations having a subordinate position in the one this writer would assign it. If it be held to be important to have a word to include all forms of movable joints, the word Lyenarthrosis is suggested as one that would be appropriate. This word implies that a joint therein placed is unjtxed, as opposed to any given variety of Sutura and Synchondrosis which is fixed.