THE INFEEIO The median surface (pelvic surface) is for the most part divided iuto the iliac and ischio-pubic portions by a line,—the ilio-pectineal line,—(linea ilio-pectinosa), which extends obliquely downward and forward, from the anterior border of the surface for articulation with the sacrum to near the pubis. The iliac jwrU'on is comprised of (o) the iliac fossa, (h) the facet for articulation with the sacrum, and (c) the iliac tuberosity. (a) The iliac fossa is smooth and shallow, and occu- pies the anterior two-thirds of the ilium. It accom- modates the Iliacus Internus muscle, and is limited behind by the upper half of the facet of articulation with the sacrum and the anterior edge of the iliac tuberosity, below by the ilio-pectinal line, and in front by the ilio-pubic junction, where a convexity— answering to the line of union between the ilium and the pubis—is seen, constituting the eminentia ilio- pectinsea^ over which glides the Iliacus Internus muscle. [h) The facet for articulation with the sacrum (auricu- lar facet) articulates Avith the lateral surface of the sacrum to effect the sacro-iliac junction. Its inferior posterior border forms the projection known as the posterior inferior sjjinous pjrocess of the ilium, (c) The iliac tuberosity is the rough convexity behind the last-named portion, and, when the bone is in articu- lation, constitutes part of the dorsal aspect of the trunk. It gives attachment to the sacro-iliac liga- ment, and in part origin to the Erector Spinas muscle. The ischio-pubic portion of the median surface is smooth, for the attachment of the Obturator Internus muscle. Under the name of the iscJi.ial j^lanes, ob stetricians indicate the space between the obturator foramen and the great sciatic notch. An imaginary line, extending from the ilio-pectineal eminence to the spine of the ischium, separates the aiilerior from i\\Q p)os!erior ischial plane. At the lower margin of. the ischio-pubic portion are located, in order from before backward, the surfaces of origin of the Coc- cygeus and of the Levator Ani muscles (a small por- tion of the origin of the muscle also lying in front of. the obturator foramen), the Erector Penis, and the Compressor UrethrtB muscles; it further affords attachment to the crus penis, and posteriorly to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The surfice answering to the body of the pubis assists in supporting the bladder. Along the median surface below the ob- turator foramen lie the internal pudic vessels and nerves. The Jo?TZe?-s of the innominate bone are the superior, the inferior, the anterior, and the posterior. 24 EXTREMITY. " 185 The superior border or the crest of the ilium follows the convexities and concavities of the dorsum. It is thickest posteriorly where it corresponds to the iliac tuberosity, and thinnest directly in advance of the part last named. Corresponding to the position of the first dorsal convexity, the upper border is abruptly widened, and forms a prominence which is of much clinical significance, since it lies directly in a line with the great femoral trochanter, and serves as a con- venient point from which distances can be measured, either to points about the hip, or to any part of the lower extremity. The superior border presents an outer lip, an inner lip, and an intermediate space. The outer lip gives origin to the Sartorius, the Tensor Yaginse Femoris, the External Oblique muscle of the abdomen, the Latissimus Dorsi, the fascia lata, and the beginning of Poupart's ligament. The imier lip is designed for the origin of the Transversalis, the Quadratus Lumborum, and, in part, the Erector Spinae muscle. The intermediate space is devoted to the origin in part of the Internal Oblique muscle. The irferior border corresponds to the lower free edge of the descending ramus of the pubis and the lower and the lateral borders of the ischium. From the tuberosity forward to the angle of the pubis the inferior border comprises an outer and an inner lip, which have already been described under the head of the lower margins of the lateral and the median surfaces. The anterior third of the lower border is broad and oval, and constitutes the articular surface that forms in connection with the corresponding facet of the opposite bone the sympjhysis jiulis. The anterior border presents the following points in order from above downward. First, the anterior sujjerior spnnous process, from which and the lateral border of the crest the Sartorius muscle arises. Second, an emargination. Third, the anterior inferior spinous process, for the origin of the long head of the Rectus Femoris muscle, and attachment of the ilio- femoral fascicle of the capsular ligament. Fourth, the thin compressed anterior acetabular lip. Fifth, the broad triangular surface whose apex is directed forward and inward to form, at the junction of the anterior Avith the inferior borders, the angle. Sixth, the pubic spine, which is placed at the upper and anterior part of the body of the pubis, and is designed for the attachment of Poupart's ligament and the conjoined tendon. The interval between the spine and the angle gives origin to the External Oblique and the Pyramidalis muscles. Seventh, a surface for the origin of the Pectineus muscle. The posterior border lies between the superior and