THE BONES, 148 OOO^OOO the cartilaginous, and to the concave walls of extend- ing spaces. They are, indeed, detached centres of ossification in the marginal area of growing membrane bones, which they aid in occupying intervening spaces among the bones themselves. They of necessity fol- low the rule of symmetry. Portal alludes to the fact that the Wormian bones have been depressed in injuries of the skull, and have resembled fragments of bone pressing against the meninges. Sauceratte^ reports a striking instance of error in diagnosis dependent upon mistaking the edge of a Wormian bone for a line of fracture. A tre- phine was about to be applied to the presumedly fractured point when the error was detected. The Cranial Base.—The base of the skull pre- sents two surfaces for examination—an interior and an exterior surface. The interior base of the skull (fig. 1, Plate XXIIL; fig. 3, Plate XXIV.) is divided into three sections, which comprise the anterior^ middle^ and posterior cerebral fossce. The anterior cerebral fossa is composed of the hori- zontal plate of the ethmoid bone, and the body of the sphenoid bone in advance of the olivary body. At the sides lie the orbital plates of the frontal and the lesser wings of the sphenoid bone. The floor is thin and compact, slightly convex over the orbits, and con- cave for the olfactory grooves. It is pierced by the foramen C£ecum, by the openings for the olfactory nerves, and by the optic foramen. It contains the anterior cerebral lobes and arteries, the olfactory tracts and bulbs, and the optic chiasm. The middle cerebral fossa presents in the cranial axis the pituitary fossa and the clinoid plate; late- rally, the great wing of the sphenoid and the squa- mous bone compose it. It is defined anteriorly by the lesser wing, and behind by the anterior aspect of the petrous bone. It presents everywhere a concave sur- face ; is irregularly marked with a number of digi- tate depressions; is thinned at the eminence corre- ^ Melange de Cliirurgie, ii. 262. spending to the glenoid fossa, and at a point a little in advance of the foramen ovale; is pierced by the anterior lacerated foramen, the oval foramen, the spinous foramen, the hiatus Fallopii, and the termi- nation of the carotid canal; and accommodates the middle cerebral lobe, the Gasserian ganglion, and the encranial divisions of the primal branches of the fifth pair of nerves. The posterior cerebral fossa includes the following parts : At the middle line is seen the cranio-basic axis as far as and inclusive of the posterior clinoid processes. Behind this axis lies the foramen magnum, and beyond this in turn lie the internal occipital protuberance and the line extending thence to the foramen mag- num. At the side, the posterior aspect of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the related mastoid portion are seen. The posterior cerebral fossa is marked by the jugular eminence, and by the lateral groove for the sinus of the same name. The skull is very thick at parts answering to the base of the lateral sinus on the occipital bone. The posterior cerebral fossa is pierced by the foramen magnum, by the hypo- glossal canal, by the posterior lacerated foramen, by the internal auditory meatus, and by the mastoid fora- men. It contains the medulla oblongata, the cerebel- lum, the basilar artery, and encranial portions of the cranial nerves from the third to the twelfth. That portion of the posterior cerebral fossa lying below the groove for the lateral sinus on the occipital bone may be called the cerebellar fossa. The interior base of the skull conforms more nearly to the shape of the base of the brain than does the vault to its related brain surface. Injuries to the head may cause direct concussion and laceration from the violent contact of the brain against the interior base. According to Hilton,' when the blow is received at the posterior part of the skull, the whole mass of the brain being driven forwards from the momentum given to it by the blow upon the bones of the skull, the under surface of the'anterior part of the brain rubs over the depressed and elevated surfaces which ' Lectures on Rest and. Pain, 25. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIL Fig. 1. The skull, seen from in front. Fig. 2. The nasal bone, seen from in front. Fig. 3. Tlie nnsal bone, seen from beliinJ Fig. 4. The skull, seen from the side.