THE LIGAMENTS. 214 THE JOINTS AND The Intertransverse Ligaments are bands extending between tlie transverse and the oblique processes of tlie vertebras. They are best seen in the lower dorsal and the lumbar vertebras. They are rudimentary in the rest of the dorsal vertebras, and rudimentary or absent in the cervical region where their places are taken by the Intertransverse muscles. The Ligamenta Subflava (fig. 2, Plate XXXYII.) are composed entirely of compact elastic tissue. They lie between the laminse and, in part, the oblique pro- cesses of the vertebrtB from the axis to the sacrum, in such manner as to be seen to the best advantage from in front. Each ligament is attached a little in advance of the lower edge of the lamina above and to the pos- terior surface of the lamina below. It follows that the fibres composing it are not vertical, but are inclined a little downward and backward, and that the height of the ligament is slightly in excess of the space between the pair of laminje it unites. The ligaments slightly diminish in size from above downward, but are thicker in the loins than elsewhere. Each ligament is stoutest near the base of the lamina, but slightly increases in breadth toward the spine, where it forms a continuous band, pierced by several minute nerves. The fibres are more or less continuous with those of the inter- spinous ligaments. Between each ligament and the dura mater are interspersed a little cellular tissue and a few veins. The ligamenta subflava assist the erector muscles of the spine in maintaining the erect position of the spine, and in recovering this position from one of forced flexion. The Ligamentum Nuchas extends upwards from the spines of the cervical vertebrte, and is attached above to the occipital bone. It is composed of two parts: the superficial part extends from the spine of the sev- enth cervical vertebra to the occipital protuberance; and the deeper part is formed by the union of the succes- sive bands which arise from the remaining cervical spines, including the posterior tubercle of the atlas, and is attached to the occipital crest.—The ligamentum nuchsi serves as an intermuscular septum between the right and the left sets of muscles of the back of the neck, and aids in a minor degree in supporting the head. It is the rudiment of the more pronounced elastic ligament of quadrupeds. Its upper portion may be felt in the living subject when the head is forcibly flexed upon the neck. According to Luschka, the ligamentum nuchse restricts abscesses of the back of the neck to their own side of the median line. (2) The Special Ligaments of the Atlas, the Axis, and the Occiput are nine in number, as follows:— The Transverse Ligament. The Posterior Atlanto-Axoid Ligament. The Capsular Ligaments. The Synovial Sacs. The Anterior Atlanto-Axoid Ligament. The Posterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament. The Occipito-Axoid Ligament. The Anterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament. The Odontoid or Check Ligament. The Transverse Ligament (figs. 2 and 3, Plate XXXVI.) extends across the central space inclosed by the atlas, and is attached by its extremities to the in- clined roughened surface on the inner side of each lateral mass. It divides the space into two parts : an anterior third for the reception of the odontoid process of the axis; and a posterior third for the spinal cord and membranes. The ligament is thick, and slightly concave forward and convex backward, and from this circumstance has been termed by some authors the semilunar or semicircular ligament. It has been described by others as pitcher-shaped, the lip flange being in contact with the head of the odontoid process, while the lower vertical part embraces the EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXVI. Fi". 1. Articulation of the bodies of the vertebrce. Fig. 2. Section of the occipital bone, the adas and the axis seen from behind, showing the articulation of the head with the atlas and the axis. Fig. 3. The atlas, showing the contents of the vertebral canal and joint between the odontoid process of the axis and the atlas. * Fig. 4.. A portion of the bodies of the vertebrffi, with the vertebral ends of the ribs in position, showing the anterior vertebral and the costo-vertebral ligaments. Fig. 5. A dorsal vertebra and portion of adjacent ribs, showing the costo-sternal ligaments.