156 THE BONES. — ^»<X^^^^O-C>0 are filled with a marrow-like substance, together with some free fat. Ramifying among them are the canals of the diploe for the veins of the same name. The spongy tissue throughout the rest of the brain-case preserves ,the same general characters as that of the vault. It is well developed at the following localities : in the occipital bone at the region of the occipital protuberance, and in the median line thence to near the foramen magnum in the occipital condyles and the under surface of lue jugular process; in the mas- toid process; in the petrous portion of the temporal bone from the position of the posterior meatus to its tip ; in the axis of the cranium from near the anterior margin of the foramen magnum to the position of the sphenoidal sinus, inclusive of the posterior clinoid plate; in the great wings and the pedicle of the ex- ternal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone; and in the posterior pedicle of the lesser wing of the same name. In the facial region the spongy tissue is most conspicuous in the alveolar processes and the malar bones. Compact l)07ie-tissue is seen in the vault at the inner plate, as already mentioned. This layer is thick and smooth. It nearly corresponds to the shape of the brain, and presents at the base of the anterior and the middle cerebral fosste a number of ridge-like eleva- tions, which serve to give the plate increased strength. At the cranio-basic axis the inner plate is thinner than the outer. In some forms of hypertrophy the inner layer of the skull is enormously thickened; on the other hand, it may become lost in an. osteoporotic condition which extends entirely through the skull- wall. Among other localities, the compact tissue is noticeable in the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; in the cerebellar fossee, the glenoid fossae, the lesser wings and spinous processes of the sphenoid bone; and in the orbital plates of the frontal bone. Within the face all the bones entering into the nasal chamber and the walls of the maxillary sinus are papyraceous in consistence. In describing the course of the lines of fracture in the cranium, the character of the bone through which the fissures pass should receive the same attention as the direction of the fissures. (2) TJie Disposition of the Cranial Bones and their Sutures.—The arrangement of the cranial bones and their sutures holds an exact relation to the mechan- ics of the skull. The union of the parietals by the interparietal suture converts the two parietal bones into an arch, the abutments of which are formed by the antero inferior and the postero-inferior angles of the bones. Between these abutments, on either side, is seen the squamosal emargination. The plan of articulation of the abutments is significant of their use. The posterior is received into a V-shaped interval at the ascending portion of the occipital bone, and the re-entering angle is formed between the squamous and the mastoid portions of the temporal bones—producing a conjunction of sutural lines named the stellion of Broca. At a short distance below this point lies the occipito-mastoid suture. The anterior pillar of the abutment is received upon the anterior portion of the squama, and the greater wing of the sphenoid bone at the so-called pterion of Broca. At the base of the skull, in the line of the anterior abutment, lies the squamosp- sphenoidal suture. Rarely, a separate suture exists at the conjunction of the horizontal and ascending portions of the greater wing. It will be thus seen that the abutments of the arch formed by the parietal bone through the junctions effected by its antero- inferior and the postero-inferior angles rest upon parts of the base crossed by sutures. These sutures are harmonic, and are among the last to disappear. It is evident that a vibration passing from the vertex to the base by either of the abutments will be diffused b}^ the time it ]-eaches the base. From the position of the parietal bone with its slightly oblique direction from before backward and above downward, it would appear to facilitate the transmission of vibration along the posterior abutment. The distribution of the waves of vibration from both the anterior and poste- rior abutments to the face, the spongy tissue of the sphenoid, and the basilar process, is so effected as to protect the brittle petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is well to recall the free, coarsely-cancellated projections already remarked upon the basal region —viz., the mastoid, jugular, and other processes—as structures well adapted to receive and diffuse vibra- tions. The sutures of the skull exert a marked influence in modifying injury during infancy and in youth. In adult life, the sutures may separate as the result of violent injury, but more commonly, particularly at that period at Avhich the sutures have disappeared, the injuries occur in great measure entirely indepen- dently of the sutures. In individuals over fifty-five years of age, the study of fracture becomes one of di- rections of resistance and force without reference to the position of sutures. The fissures of fracture may even traverse large foramina. (3) (a) The Direction from ichich a Blmv is Received.— Fracture of the base of the skull will be found to cor- respon d to the region of the vertex which has received