132 THE BONES. and aids in closing the orifice of tlie maxillary sinus. The lateral or outer surface of the lateral mass is nearly smooth. Its anterior portion is cellular, and is covered in by the lachrymal; the remaining por- tion forms the median wall of the orbit, and, from its uniformly smooth appearance, has received the name of the OS flanum (fig. 1, Plate XXIV.). Two grooves at the upper margin of the os planum transmit eth- moidal branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The thin posterior surface joins the sphenoid.—The space be- tween the median and lateral surfaces of the lateral mass is occupied by the superior meatus and a number of open spaces lined with mucous membrane which have received the name of the ethmoid cells. Two sets of these cells are described, viz., th.e anterior and the posterior. The posterior set of cells opens upon the superior meatus, while the anterior cells are continuous with the frontal sinus by means of a passage known as the infundihulum. luferiorly, the anterior cells communicate with the middle meatus. The crihriforra plate or lamella (fig. 1, Plate XXIII.) unites the cranial surfaces of the lateral masses and the vertical plate. Strictly speaking, there are two cribriform plates, one on each side of the crista galli. Each plate receives the olfactory bulb of its own side —hence it is sometimes called the olfactory sidcus— and transmits the olfactory nerves arising from its under surface. The numerous openings of the cribri- form plate are arranged without apparent order. They are for the most part the orifices of obliquely-placed short canals. Directly behind the ethmoidal wing lies a narrow slit-like opening for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. Stkuctuke.—The ethmoid bone is composed of delicate lamellas of varying degrees of thickness. The thickest portions of the bone are the crista galli —which is occasionally hollow—the wings, and the pedicle of the uncinate process. Articulation.—The ethmoid bone articulates by the perpendicular plate with the vomer; the lateral masses with the frontal, sphenoid, nasal, lachrymal, superior maxillary, and palatal bones, and by the un- cinate process with the inferior turbinated bone. Development.—The ethmoid bone arises from three centres of ossification, one for each lateral mass, and one for the vertical plate. The orbital plates begin to ossify in the fourth or fifth month; the vertical plate and the cribriform plate within the first year. The bone is complete at the fourth or fifth year. Eemakks.—For detailed clinical application of the anatomy of the ethmoid bone, see ISTose. The cribri- form plate can be readily fractured by instruments thrust upward from within the nasal chamber, and the brain thus penetrated. After such a method in- fanticide has been committed. It is asserted that the ancient Egyptians removed the brains of their dead through such an opening prior to subjecting the bodies to the embalming process. A case has been reported' having for conspicuous features a fracture of the cribriform plate, a punctured wound of the brain, and a foreign body, in the shape of the ferule of a fencing cane, lying at the side of the clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone. While engaged in a friendly exercise at fencing, the patient had re- ceived a thrust from his opponent, which had entered the nose and passed with but little opposition through the cribriform plate to the middle of the base of the skull (compare fig. 2, Plate XXIV.). Operation upon the nasal chambers, as, for example, the removal of a polypus by evulsion, has in more than one in- stance been followed by inflammation of the soft parts overlying the cribriform plates. When the olfactory nerve is absent, as in cyclops monsters, the olfactory foramina of the cribriform plates are absent also. Cerebral hernia has occurred through the cribriform plate into the nasal chamber.^ Eetzius refers to a case of simple congenital meningocele at the root of the nose in a woman aged twenty-five. the vomer. The vomer (fig. 2, Plate XX.) is a thin rhomboidal lamina of bone situated in advance of and beneath the body of the sphenoid and between the nasal chambers. It presents for examination an anterior, posterior, superior, and inferior border, and a right and a left surface. The anterior border is oblique from above downward and from behind forward to articu- late with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone and the triangular cartilage. The posterior border is shorter than the anterior, and is free. It serves to separate the posterior nares from each other. The superior border presents a V-shaped depression for articulation with the rostrum of the sphenoid bone, and is furnished with stout everted lips, termed the toiivjs of the vomer (ala3). The lateral edge of each wing unites with a thin lamina from the internal pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone and the sphe- 1 Dulilin -Tourn. of Med. Sci., xi. 349. 2 Velpean, Chirurg. Auat., i. 104; Spring, Hernie du Cerveau, Brussels, 1855.