135 THE BONES OF THE HEAD. ^ Med. Times and Gazette, 1850, 231, part 2. 5 Lancet, 1861. OOO^OOO "Wlien the premaxillae unite at the median line, the pair may be denominated the intermaxillary hone. The suture between the premaxill^ may be detected until the sixth year, and on the hard palate as late as the adult period. Eemar.ks.—In diseased conditions the identity of the premaxilla is occasionally established. Mr. Hugh- lings Jackson' describes the case of a boy three years of age who suffered from severe inflammation of the mouth followed by the exfoliation of the right pre- maxilla, the maxilla proper not being affected. The Mr. Bryant^ gives an adult aged forty- was secured which bone contained two incisor teeth, an instance of the same disease in four^ from whom an exfoliation corresponded to the premaxilla. The following is an exceedingly interesting case in this connection which came under the notice of the writer: A gentleman, aged sixty, was much annoyed by a defect which prevented his dentist fitting a plate for artificial teeth. The patient was edentulous, and had had from early childhood a cleft in the incisorial portion of the upper jaw, which, as he had been in- formed by his parents, was caused by the loss of bone following an attack of measles. The cleft was a little to the right of the median line, and extended upward to the floor of the nose and backward along the roof of the mouth about an inch. The sides of the cleft were for some distance in contact, but pos- teriorly a delicate probe could be introduced into the nose. The entire right side of the dental arch was more incurved than the left. Acquired malformation of the hard palate, the result of early loss of the left premaxilla, was diagnosed. The fact that both upper and lower maxilljB are derived from membrane would apparently explain the rarity of cartilaginous tumors, and would equally make clear the meaning of the fact expressed by Agnew^ as follows :— " Fibrous tumors of the upper jaw are quite uncom- mon, although frequently met with in the lower max- illa. A considerable proportion of all the morbid growths of the lower jaw belong to this class." The case described by Mr. Hutchinson,^ in which a cartilaginous tumor of the upper jaw occupied the canine fossa, but did not grow from the bone, must be considered in every way anomalous. The law of symmetrical distribution of diseased 1 Med. Times and Gazette, 681, 1862, part 2, 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, 18G8 ; also Lancet, 1864, 153. 3 System of Surgery, ii. 955, f)62. action is not without example in the upper jaw, though instances of it are rare. The cases of Lebert and Murchison (see the section on the Lower Jaw) also included lesions of the upper jaw. Fergusson,^ in commenting on a case of tumor in the alveolus and median line of the upper jaw, says that disease in one maxilla is common, but it is rare to find it implicating both maxillas. Many diseases of the superior maxilla take their origin from the mucous lining of the maxillary smus. A tumor growing in all directions from the sinus will encroach within on the nasal chamber, above on the orbit, without and forward on the face, and downward into the mouth. The most common form of distortion, or at least the most noticeable, is the obliteration of the canine fossa. At times the bone becomes thinned, and will crackle under the finger like a piece of parchment. In a case men- tioned by C. H. Moore,^ a tumor of the right superior maxilla, of about two years' duration, formed about the position of the canine fossa, where a conspicuous thin- ning of the wall ensued. This eventually gave way, and the fluid contained in the sinus escaped into the mouth. In other instances, the collection will open upon the cheek, as described by J. H. Howard.^ At a later stage of cystic distension, the entire anterior wall of the sinus may bulge forward and give rise to deformity. After the anterior, the most yielding wall of the sinus is the orbital. As a result of pressure in this direction, the eyeball may be displaced and protrude, the conjunctiva becoming thickened and inflamed. Pressure toward the nose and toward the hard palate is relatively infrequent. The last- named writer mentions a case in which the nostril was thus encroached upon. It is a curious fact that cystic distension does not involve the lachrymal duct. Tumors of a fibrous and encephaloid nature, on the other hand, may cause overflowing of the tears from such involvement,* as well as paralysis of sensation in the affected part, as witnessed by Fergusson.* The origin of solid tumors involving the upper jaw is so obscurely localized that little of definite value can be written of it. That necrosis of so vascular a group of bones as those composing the upper jaw should occur in the degree seen in the following case is certainly very exceptional: In a male child, aged four years, ' Ibid., I860, 35. 2 Trans. Clinical Society of London, iii. 39. 8 Ibid., V. 131. * Dr. Masou Warren, Surgical Contributions : Diseases of the .laws, p. 256. also Heath on