THE TIBIA. =00^00^ 193 condyloid notch). Anteriorly lies a smootli triangular surface whose'apex is directed downward, and whose base lies a little backward therefrom on a level with the articular facets. This space is furnished with nu- merous vascular foramina, and in life is covered with a thick cushion of tough fatty tissue. At the apex the surface is provided with the roughened luherde for the attachment of the liyxniientura patellvc'. Imme- diately above the tubercle the bone is smooth fur the accommodation of a bursa. The shaft of the tibia is broad above, but gradu- ally narrows at its lower third, from which point of narrowing it slightly increases in size to the lower extremity. It presents an anterior, a lateral, and a posterior surface, and three borders of the same name. The anterior surface is smooth, and, for the most part, slightly convex. At its upper third ii receives the aponeurosis made up of the expanded tendons of the Sartorius, the Gracilis, and the Semimembranosus muscles. The middle third is smooth and subcuta- neous, and forms the "shin" of common language. The lower third is slightly depressed if not concave; it is in part subcutaneous, and in part covered by the tendons of the extensors of the toes. The lateral surface is concave for the upper two- thirds, somewhat convex at the lower third. It is furnished throughout its entire length with a ridge for the attachment of the interosseous membrane. The ridge lies near the posterior border, if, indeed, for the lower two-thirds of its length it does not define it, and is especially well marked at the lower end of the shaft, where it is the frequent site of small, irregular outgrowths. In front of this ridge, at its upper part, is a broad, shallow depression for the origin of the Tibialis Anticus muscle. ^\iQ posterior surface^ the least regular of the three, is flat above, where it is marked by an oUicp-ie line which passes from the upper and the outer border downward and inward to terniinatc at the median bor- der of the shaft at the junction of the upper and the middle thirds. It serves for the origin of the Popli- teus muscle. Tne surface above the oblique line is covered by the last-named muscle; that below the line, as far as the position of the downward-directed niL- trient foramen, by the origin of the Soleus muscle. Passing thence down the middle third of the bone is a vertical rid'je (becoming indistinct below) which serves to separate the origin of the Flexor Longus Digitorum from that of the Tibialis Posticus muscle. Of the horders of the tibia, the anterior is prominent at its upper two-thirds (crest of the tibia), but rounded and inconspicuous at its lower third. It is slightly 25 . curved outward at its upper third. It separates the anterior from the lateral surfaces. The lateral harder is rounded and faintly expressed below the external tuberosity by a rounded surface. At the lower ex- tremity it is more compressed, and answers to the ridge for the interosseous membrane. It separates the lateral from the posterior surface. The posterior bor- der is well developed at its lower two-thirds, and is continuous above with the oblique litie. In the upper tliird the border is smooth and rounded. It separates the anterior from the posterior surface. The loiver extremity is subtriangular in form, pre- sents a base directed downward, and is furnished with swollen borders before and behind that project beyond those of the distal articular surface. The anterior border is for the most part smooth, but pro- vided near the articular surface with a rounded eminence for the attachment of the anterior tibio- fibular ligament. The posterior border is slightly smaller, and projects a little further downward than the foregoing. It is marked by a deep oblique yrouve (overlying the posterior surface of the internal malleo- lus) for the tendons of the Tibialis Posticus and the Flexor Longus Digitorum muscles. A fainter and less constant groove lying to the lateral side of the fore- going is designed to accommodate the tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis muscle. The lateral surface of the lower extremity is concave, and presents a small facet for articulation with the fibula; the median surface projects downward as a robust process, wider behind than in front—to form the internal malleolus. The under surface of the malleolus is smooth for at- tachment of the deltoid ligament. The distal articular surface of the tibia is broad, triangular, with its base directed laterally, its apex medianly, at which point it is abruptly deflected downward to form the lateral surface of the internal malleolus. Structure.—At the proximal end of the tibia are seen two sets of nearly vertical lines passing from the condylar surfaces downward to the sides of the shaft. In the space between these, weak interlacing oblique lines, as well as others that terminate upon the sides of the spine above and the median aspects of the condylar lines below, are detected. Arranged horizontally to both the foregoing are simple, nearly concave lines which are sparsely distributed below the articular surfaces, and arc in a measure concentric therewith. In some specimens the lines of the epiijihysis can be easily distinguished from those of the shaft. All the lines on the median half are stouter than those on the lateral.