THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 173 o^O^OOo diagnosed. Galvagni' describes a crepitation accom- panying the scapular movements, which is probably caused by the rubbing of the bone directly against the Serratus Magnus, and indirectly against the ribs. The scapula may be excised, and yet the usefulness of the arm he 2)feserved. Dr. M. Schuppart^ describes such a condition. The motions of the arm while im- paired were reas<jnably efficient. A weight of thirty pounds could be lifted and thrown a fair distance. THE riUMEHUS. The humerus (figs. 2 and 3, Plate XXVITI.) is the largest bone of the superior extremity. It articulates above with the scapula, and below with the bon.es of the forearm. The humerus consists of a head, the anatomical and the surgical necks, the greater and the lesser tuberosities, the shaft, the epitroehlea, the epicondyle, the trochlea, and the radial head. It is convenient in addition to use the terms upper and lower extremities, which, while not exact, assume the bone to be divided into two parts, one above and the other below the junction of the upper third with the lower two-thirds of the shaft. The shaft or body is subcylindrical above, and in- creases in bulk as it approaches the upper extremity; it is somewhat ])rismatiG below, is compressed from before backwards, and is widened as it reaches the lower extremity. The head is a large convex surface, which is a little longer than wide for articulation with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. It represents about a third of a sphere, and is directed upward and inward. It is bounded at its upper two-thirds by a groove—better marked behind than in front—known as the anatomi- cal neck. To the outer side of the anatomical neck are two prominences, the greater and the lesser tube- rosity. The greater tuberosity (radial tubercle) is continuous with the shaft, where it is covered by the Deltoid; it is marked on its sides by a number of minute pits and foramina, and above by a smooth surface obscurely divided by three facet-like depres- siuns arranged from within outward for the insertion of the Supra-Spinatus, the Infra-Spinatus, and the Teres Minor muscles. The lesser tuberosity (ulnar tubercle) lies to the median side of the former, and is covered by the Biceps muscle. It is less abruptly separated from the shaft than is the greater, and re- ceives the insertion of the Subscapularis muscle. • Strieker's Meclecin. Jahrbucli. 1873, ii. 2 New Orleans Journal of Medicine, Jan. 1870. Between the tuberosities is a deep, vertical depres- sion, the bicipital groove.^ which, advances a short dis- tance on the shaft, and receives the long tendon of the Biceps muscle.—The line of the lateral (outer) lip of the groove corresponds to the median border of the greater tuberosity, and also to a ridge that extends downward as far as the middle of the shaft. The ridge is roughened two inches below the head for the inser- tion of the Pectoralis Major muscle, and at its lower end by the median boundary of an irregular muscular impression {(deltoid impression) for the insertion of the Deltoid muscle. The deltoid impression itself is a large V-shaped space, and lies on the lateral surface of the shaft.—The line of the median lip of the bi- cipital groove answering to the lateral border of the lesser tuberosity is less pronounced than the lateral lip. It receives the insertion of the Teres Major and the Latissimus Dorsi muscles.—The por- tion of the shaft between the insertion of the three muscles above named and the head has received the name of the surgical neck. At the median (inner) side of the shaft, at a point on the level of the inser- tion of the Deltoid muscle, is a faint and narrow im- pression for the insertion of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle. Immediately beneath the lateral border of the deltoid impression, and extending thence from be- fore backward, is the sjjiral groove, for the musculo- spiral nerve and the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. The posterior surface of the shaft below the line of the groove is smooth and nearly flat, for the origin of the internal head of the Triceps muscle. The anterior surface below the deltoid im- pression is abruptly convex, more markedly so above than below, for the origin of the Brachialis Anticus muscle. Separating the anterior from the posterior surfaces are two vertical ridges: tlie outer, the supra- condyloid ridge (supinator ridge), extends from the spiral groove to the epicondyle; the inner, the supra- trochlear ridge.^ extends from the insertion of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle to the epitroehlea. Both these ridges serve to give attachment to inter- muscular septse. The foramen for the nutritious artery (nutritive artery) of the shaft is seen at the upper end of the supra-trochlear ridge, with its orifice directed upward. 1^\\Q trochlea is a cylindroid articular surface, placed transversely to the axis of the bone, and depressed in the centre; it articulates with the greater sigmoid notch of the ulna. The trochlea is broader and deeper behind than in front, and is inclined slightly, so that the middle of the upper trochlear margin in front lies to the median (inner) side of the axis of