232 THE LIGAMENTS. THE JOINTS AND or disks) are two in number, and are named from their position the internal and the external cartilage. They are wide and thick without, but thin and com- pressed within, and apparently belong to the tibia to the plane of whose articular surfaces they correspond. The lower surfaces are flat, while the upper are con- cave for the reception of the femoral condyles. Each cartilage covers one-third of the tibial articular sur- face, to the border of which it is fixed by short fibrous bands, which collectively receive the name of the coronary litjament. The internal cartikuje is of a semilunar figure, narrow and pointed in front, and to a moderate degree fixed to the anterior border of the anterior tibial concavity. It passes backward to be attached to the inner side of the intercondyloid notch. The ends of the cartilage are separated by the entire breadth of the tibial surface. The internal cartilage is in marked contrast to the external, since it sends off no fibres to the crucial ligament. The external cartilaye is more circular in form than the internal, and is grooved upon its outer side by the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. It is attached in front to the depression in advance of the spine of the tibia, and behind, for the most part, to the space be- tween the two tubercles of the spine of the tibia. The anterior and the posterior ends of this cartilage are of the same size, and are so near each other as to lie within the curve of the internal cartilage, which thus corresponds to the arc of a larger circle than the one described by the external. Small bun- dles of fibres pass from the external cartilage to the crucial ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a narrow band of fibres stretching across between the anterior extremi- ties of the interarticular cartilages. The Crucial Ligaments, or crossing ligaments, are broad though short bands, two in number, and named from their position the anterior and the posterior, extending from the space before and behind the spine of the tibia to the posterior condyloid notch of the femur. The two in crossing describe a figure resembling the letter X, and form a kind of partition between the right and the left sides of the joint. Both ligaments are connected with the external inter- articular cartilage. The anterior crucial ligament is attached anteriorly to the inner side of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia. It lies in front of the external interarticular disk, with M'^hich it is in part blended. It increases in breadth as it passes upward and out- ward, and is attached above to the inner and hinder part of the inner surface of the external condyle. The posterior crucial ligament is broader and stouter than the anterior, and is attached below to the depression behind the spine of the tibia. Gaining a slight accession from the external interarticular cartilage, it passes upward and a little outward to be attached to the posterior condyloid femoral notch (which it for the most part occupies) as well as by a few fibres to the outer side of the inner condyle. The crucial ligaments may be ruptured by violence. Mr. Poland^ records a case of a man forty years of age who incurred an injury of the right knee by a sack of wheat falling upon the thigh of the corresponding side. Amputation was found to be necessary, owing to rupture of the popliteal artery. Examination of the knee demonstrated rupture of the anterior crucial ligament. The Syn&vial Membrane is more extended than any other in the body. In addition to lining the capsular ligament, and covering the articular surfaces of the bones entering into the joint, it is reflected from the fat lying between the ligamentum patellae and the space in front of the head of the tibia; surrounds the crucial ligaments and the tendon of the Popliteus muscle; is reflected upon the interarticular cartilages, and is in contact with the internal lateral ligament at the inner condyle of the femur. The membrane con- forms, as a rule, to the shape of the capsular ligament, but above it extends as a cul-de-sac beneath the tendon of the Quadriceps Extensor muscle to the distance of several inches. Below to its outer side (and guarded by the tendon of the Popliteus muscle) it sends a prolongation backward and outward upon ' Med. Times and Gazette, IStJG, 6. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLT. Fig. 1. The hip-joint, seen from in front. Fig. 2. The knee-joint, seen from behind, showing capsule. Fig. 3. The knee-joint, seen from the median side Fig. 4. The knee-joint, seen from behind, sliowing position of the disks and tlie crucial ligaments. The names "Internal Condyle" and "External Condyle" should be transposed.