THE BONES. 168 ■ '■ oOO^OOO portion of the bone wliicli appears about tlie sixth week, and one for the sternal end (pre-coracoid of Kitchen Parker) which appears after the manner of an epipliysis at about the eighteenth year.' Tlie epiphysis unites with the shaft at the twenty-fifth year. Tlie clavicle is thought to be homologous with an intermuscular space or septum (such as the linea transversa of the Rectus Abdominalis) which lies be- tween the Trapezius and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscles on the one hand, and the Deltoid on the other. In animals without a clavicle, the Trapezius and the Deltoid muscles are continuous, as in the seal and the carnivora generally. In the bear a transverse fibrous inscription alone separates the Deltoid from the cra- nial fibres of the Trapezius. In the cat, the raccoon, and allied animals a small movable bone without osseous attachment of any kind intervenes between the two muscles. Remarks.—The clavicle is exceedingly variable in form. In muscular individuals the curves are pro- nounced, the thoracic articular surface is produced downward, and the facet answering to the upper sur- face of the first rib is large.—The impression of the claviculo-costal ligament is either on the level of the bone or raised slightly from it. This impression is sufficiently deep in the bone just prior to the union of the median epiphysis to lead observers to mis- take it for an effect of diseased action.—Tlie lower border of the impression for the Deltoid sometimes projects as a ragged spine ; the posterior border of the acromial end is rarely produced to the level of the plane of the fa-cet, thereby greatly increasing the width of the bone at that place.—In the female the clavicle is straighter than in the male, and the muscular and ligamentous impressions are but flxintly marked. The ridge for the coraco-clavicular ligament is sometimes lumpish.—The clavicle occasionally exhibits a foramen at the upper border of the body for the transit of the supra-clavicular nerve.—E. H. Bennett^ records four examples of variation in the scapular end of the left clavicle, consisting in the extension of the posterior border of the bone to or beyond the level of the plane of the facet, and in the exhibition of a secondary facet which articulates with the spine of the scapula by a diarthrodial joint. In two of the instances the scap- ula at the acromion was deformed. The region of the scapular facet may exhibit in connection with the last- named variation the results of mal-nutrition, inflam- mation and erosion, as occurred in two bones that have come under the writer's notice. In such clavi- cles the enlarged, thickened, and deformed parts are irregular in form, and bear a strong resemblance to formations of old callus, and may be thus mistaken for the effects of fracture. It is well to observe that these appearances are not seen crossing the bone, but are confined to the facet and the parts extending thence to the anterior margin of the scapular end.—For varia- tions in the lengths of the clavicles, see p. 102.—0. Gegenbaur' describes from the living subject four cases of symmetrical absence of the acromial end of the clavicle, occurring in a mother and her three children. In each case a conspicuous depression ex- isted between the shoulder and the front of the chest, at the bottom of which the subclavian artery could be felt beating. The motions of the scapula ajjpeared to he unimpaired. The motions of the clavicles are determined by the movements of the chest and of the superior extremity. Since the union between the clavicle and the scapula is nearly fixed, that between the clavicle and the sternum and the first rib permits of free motion, and causes the thoracic end of the bone to act as a ful- crum to the scapula, and through the latter to the entire upper extremity. The attachment of tlie clav- icle to the first rib by the antero-inferior lateral facet serves, according to G. Hermann Mcyer,^ to transfer the weight of the superior extremity (as instanced in carrying a heavy body on the shoulder or in the hand) from the arm and the clavicle to the trunk—the ver- tebral column eventually bearing such strain as is diffused to it through the manubrium and the first pair of ribs. The bone wdien in the position of rest is on the same level as the spine of the scapula. In inspiration it moves forward an inch. The clavicle exerts marked influence over the ap- pearance of the neck. As is known, the neck varies greatly in apparent length in different individuals; this difference, evidently, does not depend upon the variations in the measurements of the cervical verte- br£e, for these are slight, but upon the position of the clavicles. In individuals of robust habit and large respiratory capacity the clavicles are forced up to a higher plane than in those persons of weak muscular power, whose respiratory capacity is small.—In the corpulent, the subjects of organic heart disease or of ' Dublin .lournal of Medecine, Ivi. 413, 1873, one instance, fig. with scapula; Iljid. Ix. 166, 1875, three instances, one with scap- ula, figs. 1 -lenaische Zeitschr., Bd. I. 1866. ^ Lehrbuch der Anatomie des Menschen, 104.