236 THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. phoid ligament and the scaphoid bone. It extends the length of the median border of this ligament.— The posterior fasciculus^ somewhat rectangular in shape, is attached above to the inferior surface of the superior aspect of the internal malleolus, and below to the astragalus and the calcaneum. The internal lateral ligament protects the surface of contact with the internal malleolus in all its motions. The External Lateral Ligament, conventionally so called, is composed of three distinct ligaments, named, from their relative positions, the anterior, the middle, and the posterior fascicles.—The anterior fascicle, tlie shortest of the three, is attached above to the anterior border of the external malleolus; it passes almost horizontally forward and inward to be attached to the astragalus at the junction of the neck and the body. It often splits into two bundles. In flexion it touches the anterior tibio-fibular ligament.—The mid- dle fascicle, the longest of the three, is also the strong- est. It assumes the form of a rounded cord, which is fixed above to the fibula directly in front of the apex of the external malleolus, and below to the external surface of the calcaneum.—The posterior fascicle, the weakest of the three, and more deeply situated than the others, passes nearly horizontally inward from a groove on the inner side of the external malleolus to the posterior surface of the astragalus on the groove between the upper and the lower articular surfaces. In extension of the ankle-joint this ligament touches the lower border of the posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. No capsule, properly speaking, exists at the ankle- joint. The joint is protected in front and behind by dispositions of fibres having little strength. The fibres of the posterior set have the same general arrangement as those of the ligament last named. The Synovial Membrane is unyielding on the sides where it answers to the malleoli, and where it lies in contact with the ligaments of the ankle and those of the inferior tibio-fibular joint, but is relaxed and loose both in front and behind to such a degree as to permit, during flexion and extension, transverse creases or folds to form. Anteriorly the membrane extends a short distance upon the neck of the astra- galus, from which it is separated by a small quantity of fat. This prolongation is divided into a number of imperfectly defined compartments by a series of vertically disposed septa. Superiorly the membrane lies between the tibia and the fibula to consti- tute the inferior tibio-fibular joint, as already seen. The outer surface of the membrane is in association anteriorly with the tendons of the extensors of the toes, and posteriorly with the tendons of the Gastrocnemius and the Plantaris muscles. The tendon of the last- named muscle may be said to exercise a tensile power over the membrane. The synovial fringes which are so conspicuous in the knee-joint are in the ankle ab- sent or insignificant. Movements.—The movements of the ankle-joint are in the main those of the ginglymoid joints. When the weight of the body is borne directly upon the astragalus, as m standing erect, the astragalus acts as a continuation of the shaft of the tibia, and serves to transmit the weight of the body to the arch of the foot. In this position the ligaments are relaxed, and the bone has a disposition to glide forward, since the upper articular surface is narrower behind than in front. This tendency is checked by the interosseous calcaneo-astragalar ligament, and by the impact of the astragalus against the scaphoid and the ligamentous bands uniting the last-named bones to each other and to the bones of the leg. In extension, the anterior fifth of the superior astra- galar surface is exposed, as is the corresponding por- tion of the articular surface for the external malleolus. The movement is checked laterally by the anterior fascicle of the external lateral ligament, which, while becoming tense, assumes a direction obliquely down- ward and inward; the middle and posterior fascicles are relaxed. The movement is checked medianly by the anterior half (3f the deltoid ligament, while the posterior half is relaxed. In flexion, the narrowed posterior third of the EXPLANATION OF PLATE XLII. Fig. \. The ankle-joint, seen from beliind. Fig. 2. The dorso-ventral section of the tarsus, showing synovial sacs. For the word "metacarpus" substitute " metatarsus." Fig. 3. The proximal end of tibia with the interarticular disks in position, and tlie tibial attachments of the crucial ligaments displayed. Fig. 4. The ligaments of the foot, seen from the median side. Fig. 5. The ligaments of the foot, seen from beneath.