106 THE BONES. :.00§g<XX>— which had originated in the left cerebellar hemisphere, and liad sent a portion of its mass within the internal auditory meatus, noticed tiiat the bony canal was much widened and funnel-shaped. In a case i-ei)orted by Boettcher' the tumor liad dilated the canal in all directions. Interstitial absorption from undue pressure plays an im- portant part in the causation of deformity of tiie spine, in wliich condition bodies of the vertebrEe become changed in outline—sometimes to a remarkable extent—not from any primary diseased action therein, but from long-continued vicious pressure. The question of prognosis in all cases of spinal deformity must be wisely based upon what is known of the delbrnied shapes of the vertebrae entirely aiiart from the question of removal of tiie original exciting cause. Bones, in addition to the modifications of their surfaces due to the origin and insertion of muscles, may be changed in form at certain localities by tendons and bloodvessels. The tendon of the Obtui'ator Internus, as it lies over the in- nominate bone above the tuberosity of the isciiium (creating grooves even in the normal bone), will cause deeper and broader grooves to appear in bones which are preternaturally softened. In a skeleton of a giant, preserved in the Mutter Museum in Philadelphia, the exaggeration in these grooves is well represented. In like manner the points of origin and insertion of muscles will cause in young bones, or in those of the charac- ter above described, the opposite effect, and will create shallow depressions upon the surface of the bone instead of prominences. THE VERTEBRAE. General Considerations. Every vertebra, excepting the atlas, is composed esseutiallj of three parts, viz., a body, and two lateral portions.^ The body defines the vertebral canal in front, and the lateral portions at the sides and behind. Each lateral portion arises from the posterior outer margin of the body, and passes for a short distance outward and backward. It is thence abruptly de- flected inward and backward, and joins its fellow of the opposite side to form at the point of contact the spinous process or spine. The union of the lateral portions constitutes the vertebral arch. The figure of the vertebral foramen thus determined by the conver- ' Archiv Oph. and Otol., iii. 134. 2 The atlas, while defining the vertebral canal in common with the other vertebrae, is composed of two lateral portions only, and is technically without a body. gence of the lateral portions is triangular, and presents one posterior and two lateral subrounded angles.— The vertebral canal accommodates the spinal cord and membranes ; the spinal nerves, as they pass from their apparent origin in the spinal cord to their points of exit from the vertebral canal; the vertebral artery on its way from the vertebral foramen of the atlas to enter the foramen magnum; and the lymph-space between the membranes.' The cancelli.—The lines of cancelli in the ver- tebrae are arranged in three series. The first consists of longitudinal concave lines with their concavities directed forward. The second resembles the fore- going, but the concavities are directed backward. The third series are transverse,—the upper lines being concentric to the superior, and the lower to the inferior articular surface. The other general features of a vertebra are the following:—- The yedicle^ which is that rounded part of the lateral portion lying between the body and the lateral angle; the lamina, the thin, flattened ])art lying between the lateral angle and the spine,—it is seen to be vertically compressed at its base; the superior oblique or articular process lying at the base of the pedicle,—it presents an articular facet looking backward ; the inferior ob- lique or articular process lying upon the base of the lamina at the angle,—it presents an articular facet looking forward; the inferior notch lying beneath the pedicle, and between the body of the vertebra and the lamina; and the smaller sujjerior notch—a less constant feature—lying upon the pedicle between the body and the superior articular process.—In articula- tion the apposition of a pair of superior and inferior notches constitutes an ijitervertebral foramen for the exit of a spinal nerve. THE VERTEBRAL COLCTMN. The vertebral column is the figure resultant upon the apposition of the vertebrge in natural order. It is usually accepted to include the sacrum and coccyx. But for practical purposes nothing is gained by thus ' The vertebral canal varies greatly at dilTerent parts of the column. According to Humphry, the antero-posterior diameter, within the axis, is but | of an inch ; from this it gradually dimin- ishes to f of an inch at the middle of the dorsal region. Opposite the last lumbar vertebra it increases to | of an inch, and thence rapidly diminishes until the sacrum is reached. The frontal diameter at the atlas measures 1^ inch, at the axis 1 inch, at the second dorsal vertebra | of an inch, at the last § of an inch, and at the lumbar vertebrae 1 inch.