JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. 227 ' See in this connection J. M. Duncan, Edin. Med. Journ., ISIiS. • Orthopedic Surgery, etc., 327. . <x>o^oo« The Ilio-Lumbar Ligament (figs. 1 and 2, Plate XXXIX.) is a stout rounded cord extending from the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar verte- bra to the crest of the ilium. The Anterior and the Posterior Ilio-Sacral Liga- ments are thin layers of fibrous tissue extending from the sacrum to the ilium. Some of these bundles are transverse, others are oblique. The latter are arranged in two fasciculi, the upper extending from the pos- terior superior spinous process of the ilium to the sacrum ; the lower extending from the posterior in- ferior spinous process of the ilium to the sacrum. Of the two ligaments the posterior is the stronger. The sacro-iliac junction is easily destroyed by crush- ing violence. It is thus often involved in fractures of the pelvic bones, when its surfaces have been known to be separated to the distance of two fingers' breadths. Destructive inflammation with suppuration is asserted by Sayre ' to be a common disease of this articulation, and is invariably of traumatic origin. Accessory to the ilio-sacral joint are the following ligaments:— The Greater Sacro Sciatic. The Lesser Sacro-Sciatic. The Greater Sacro-Sciatic Ligament is a broad mem- brane-like structure extending from the outer portion of the tuberosity of the ischium to the upper posterior portion of the iliurn, and the posterior lateral surface of the sacrum. It is slightly contracted in the mid- dle, but expanded toward either end. Its fibres are pierced here and there by minute bloodvessels, and are moje or less continuous below with the origin of the Semi-Membranosus muscle and the long head of the Biceps Flexor muscle, and above with the iliac fibres of origin of the Gluteus Maximus muscle. The ligament converts the great sciatic notch into a foramen, and gives origin to some fibres of the Gluteus Maximus. The inner surface of the ligament at its ischiatic attachment is continuous through the so-called falci- form process with the obturator fascia covering the internal obturator fascia, and in like manner with lower fibres entering into the sub-pubic ligament. The great sacro-sciatic ligament should be associ- ated with the deep fascise rather than with true liga- ments. It is made tense by action of the Biceps Flexor muscle, and may be considered mainlv in the light of an aponeurosis. The Lesser Sacro-Sciatic Ligament extends between the posterior surface of the spine of the ischium and the sacrum, where some of its fibres are continuous with the Ischio-Coccygeal muscle. It converts the lesser sciatic notch into a foramen. The greater and the lesser sciatic foramina trans- mit the following structures: the greater, the Pyri- formis muscle, the sciatic and the pudic nerve; the lesser, the Internal Obturator muscle, and the internal pudic nerves and bloodvessels. The Obturator Membrane.—In addition to the above structures the innominate bones exhibit a firm membrane, occujndng the foramen of the same name, which has received the name of the Obturator Mem- brane. It is pierced near its lower border by the obturator vessels and nerves, and yields surfaces of origin for the Internal and the External Obturator muscles. THE SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. The Symphysis Pubis (figs. 3 and -i, Plate XXXIX.) is a joint belonging to the order of symphysis, as the name expresses. Like all the members of this group it possesses an inter-articular disk of fibro-cartilage. Owing to the somewhat bevelled appearance of the me- dian articular surfaces of the pubic bones, a V or Y shaped interval results as they approach one another. The fibro-cartilage of necessity takes the shape of this interval, and is further peculiar in being composed chiefly of cartilage in the basal portion of the V or Y, and of fibro cartilage in the expanded portion. Moreover, the lateral portions of the disk are in in- timate union with the tit-like eminences on the pubic surfaces, and retain this connection even after mace- ration. Not only is the yielding centre of the disk the least fixed of the parts, but it is occupied by a syno- vial sac. This, in the young of both sexes, and in the male adult, is placed at the^basal part of the V o^ the stem of the Y, and extends thence forward barely to the centre of the joint. It averages in tlie adult male a size not greater than that of a split pea. The sac is larger in adult females, and in the parturient may involve the entire thickness of the joint. A moderate degree of motion is possible between the innominate bones during preonancy and parturition.' The position of the symphysis can be felt from within the vagina. The symphysis is strengthened by accessory fibres