121 THE BONES OF THE HEAD. ^OO^OOO the parietals behind the sagittal suture has received the name of the occipital angle, and the portion occu- pying the space between the two parietals the mfc?-- par/etoZ portion. On the external surface, a little less than midway between the base and the angle, is seen the external occij ital protuberance for the attachment of the ligameutum nuchas. It may form a conspicuous triangular process projected downward. The surface above the protuberance is smooth, and is curved in the subject by the aponeurosis of the Occipito-Frontal muscle; the surface below it is more uneven, and is marked by muscular impressions pertaining rather to the basal region of the skull. Extending from the occipital protuberance downward is a faintly delined ridge, the occipital crest. On either side of the crest are strongly marked impressions for the Complexus mus- cles. Bordering these above lies the superior curved line for the attachment of the Tra})ezius, Occipito- Frontalis, and the Stcrno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscles. On a level -with the Complexus impressions, but ex- ternal to them, lie the planes of origin of the Splenius Capitis and Obliquus Superior muscles. The inferior margin of the Complexus impression is known as the inferior curved line. The space between it and the foramen magnum is occupied by the Rectus Capitis Postici muscles. The internal surface (fig. 3, plate XVI.) of the as- cending portion is deeply concave and smooth. At a point nearly correspoi^ding to tlie external occipital protuberance lies the internal occipital jT^'otuherance. Passing thence downward, a little to the right of the median line is seen the groove for the great longitu- dinal sinus as it assumes a more horizontal position to form the groove for the lateral sinus. A fainter groove on the opposite side answers to the left lateral sinus. A smaller and inconspicuous sulcus for the occipital sinus extends from the protuberance down- ward to the foramen magnum, in approaching which it is apt to bifurcate. The large depressions on either side of the median line above and below the grooves for the lateral sinuses form collectively the occipital fossa. The upper two depressions receive the poste- rior lobes of the cerebrum; the lower receive the hemispheres of the cerebellum. Structure.—The basilar process of the occipital bonefrom the margin of the foramen magnum to nearly half its length is composed of compact tissue ; beyond this point it divides into an upper and a lower plate, of which the lower is the thicker: the space between the plates is occupied by cancelli. The lateral j^or- IG tions are for the most part spongy, and indeed in the aged the region of the jugular process becomes hollow. The ascending portion above the superior semicircular line is thick, and furnished with abundant diploe. It is thickest toward the occipital angle. Below the internal occipital protuberance, on either side of the occipital groove, the bone is thin and compact. Development.—The occipital bone arises from seven centres. The basilar and lateral portions exist as cartilage prior to ossification. Ossification begins at about the seventh or eighth week; thus recalling the period at which the osseous centres appear in the bodies and the laminae of the vertebra?. A little earlier the ascending portion of the bone, which is membranous, yields four centres of ossification, two on either side. These soon unite toward the centre toTorm the ascending portion of the bone, but leaving pronounced fissures extending inward from the periph- ery. At birth the bone is composed of tlie ascending portion, of the lateral or exoccipital portions, and of the inferior or basilar portions. The ascending and lateral portions join at about the second and third year; the basilar and lateral portions by the fifth or sixth year. The basilar portion unites Avith the body of the sphenoid bone between the fourteenth and the twentieth year. The suture between the lateral and ascending parts near the posterior border of the condyles begins to be obliterated at the end of the first year. At the end of the second the obliteration is nearly complete—a small fissure at the border of the foramen magnum often persisting imtil the seventh year. It is rare for the entire suture to remain open during this time. The anterior portion of the interoccipital persists quite constantly until the seventh year. Eemarks.—The occipital bone is the most variable of any in the skull. The entire interparietal portion often projects backward from the vault-curve, and con- stitutes a frequent variety of cranial deformity. The angular process sometimes assumes the form of a dis- tinct bone. Portal alludes to the fact that, in injuries of the skull, this portion has been known to be de- pressed and to impinge upon the meninges.—A con- spicuous tubercle on the anterior margin of the fora- men magnum is occasionally seen. In about one per cent, of crania the odontoid process of the axis secures an articulation with a facet on the anterior margin of the foramen magnum ; this facet is termed the tertiary condyle.—The interparietal portion may contain a large