GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. «aOC-§§C!0-i 99 large, and as a rule convex. Upon the tibia, the condylar surfaces are slightly concave. Tuberosity.—A large rounded process. Teochanter.—A tuberosity which serves for mus- cular attachment in positions favorable to rotatory motion. Spine.—A pointed process. Crest.—A pronounced ridgedike elevation. Line.—An elevation less pronounced than a crest. Every bone presents surfaces, borders, and angles. These terms will frequently recur in the descriptions. Among the depressions on the general surface of the bone may be mentioned the following:— FossA.^—A deep saucer-shaped depression. It may be articular, as the glenoid fossa ; or muscular, as the iliac fossa. A diyiial depression is a circular shallow- fossa. Groove or Sulcus.—A narrow elongated depres- sion. Furrow.—A relatively broad, shallow groove. Fissure.—A narrow chink. It often answers to lines of defective union between different bones. Fissures are most commonly seen in the skull. Meatus.—A sulcus or canal leading to parts other than those defining the meatus. The meatus of the nasal chamber is a depression on the lateral wall of the nasal chamber leading to the pharynx; the ex- ternal meatus is a tubular passage made up of the squama and tympanic bone, leading to the middle ear. Sinus.—-An open cavity with a narrowed mouth lined with mucous membrane. The flexor surface and the extensor surface of a bone are terms often employed in the same sense as ventral and dorsal. See Definitions in Introduction, p. 20. The openings in bone are known as—■ Canals.—When they form tubular passages into or through bones. Foramina.—When they form simple openings of transmission. Properties of Bone.—Bone is the firmest and hardest of the tissues, enamel alone excepted, and is especially designed to combine great strength with lightness. Elasticity is one of its most conspicuous properties. The form of the bone aids in maintaining it, as in the rib and the lower jaw; but all the bones possess it in more or less degree. Bone-tissue is either compact or sj)on(jy. When compact, it possesses firm- ness to a high degree, and when sporujy, lightness. Compact bone is best seen in the lines adapted to bear the greatest resistance and sustain the greatest weight; the spongy is best seen in places where light- ness and facility of motion or delicacy of use are the purposes required. Most of the long bones are hol- low, and, as already mentioned, are termed cylindrical bones. This form aids greatly in maintaining light- ne'ss without sacrificing strength, the wall of the cylinder being composed of compact bone, while the hollow space is filled with a form of fatty tissue (p. 56). The Cancelli.—The extremities of a bone are, on the other hand, solid in the sense of being without a central cavity, and are composed of reticulations of minute plates and rods of bone, which are collectively termed tlie cancelli. The cancellous, or spongy tissue, as it is indifferently termed, is admirably adapted to break the jar of a sudden blow, and to prevent it from reaching the delicate central structures of the body. Each bone exhibits a special arrangement of the can- celli, the one specially adapted to its necessities, and no two bones, or, indeed, no two parts of a single bone, preserve exactly the same arrangement. In studying cancelli it will be seen that the stoutest laminae, and the best mechanical disposition for sustain- ing weight and distributing force exist in the positions where the necessities for such properties are the greatest. As a consequence, it is evident that, while a general resemblance exists between the cancelli of bones of a natural group, as, for example, those of the vertebral column, or the ends of long bones near joints which resemble one another, great contrasts are exhibited in other bones having highly specialized lines of work to perform, such as the astragalus, the calcaneum, and the femur. Cancelli naturally arrange themselves into those of the articular epiphyses, of the muscular epiphyses, of the ossified articular cartilages, and, in the main, into pillars and laminaa of the shafts of the bones. For convenience these subdivisions are not described separately, although each should be taken up by itself in special studies of any single bone. The physical properties of bone are capable of being modified by the peculiarities of each of the bones, and will of necessity vary in the performance of different lines of work. The petrous portion of the temporal bone is naturally hard and brittle; the tarsal and carpal bones are spongy, and not inclined to fracture. The former has no superimposed weight to sustain ; the latter have important relations to bear while supporting the entire body in the erect position.