THE BONES OF THE HEAD. 131 c-OO^OOo . rience of his own in which he for a time mistook such an asymmetrical growth for an exostosis. From the extreme thinness of the orbital plates a slight direct blow will break them. This has actually occurred in more than one instance. Inconsiderable and sometimes undetected external wounds, from such objects as tobacco-pipe stems, and tips of umbrella sticks, have been associated with fracture of the orbi- tal plate and cerebral injury.' Abscess of the frontal sinus will expand the walls and cause outward inclination of the inner aspect of the orbit above the os planum of the ethmoid. A patient under the care of Mr. Soelberg Wells,^ showing these peculiarities, had, in consequence of periocular infiltration as well as from the direct pressure of the abscess, protrusion of the right eyeball. THE ETHMOID BONE. The ethmoid bone (fig. 4, Plate XIX.; fig. 1, Plate XX.)—while properly a cranial bone, inasmuch as it enters into the construction of the brain-case—lies for the most part within the region of the face. Like the sphenoid bone, it is strictly symmetrical; and is composed of a median portion which receives the name of the verticalplute^ and two lateral portions or masses. Uniting the vertical plate and the lateral masses is the horizontal or crihriform plate. The entire bone is of a cuboidal figure, and aids in defining the floor of the anterior cerebral fossa, the nasal cham- bers, and the inner wall of each orbit. The nasal surfaces of the ethmoid are covered with mucous membrane that accommodates the organ of smelling. The vertical plate (meso-ethmoid) is a thin lamina of bone in the median line extending downward from the cribriform plate into the face, and upward from the cribriform plate into the brain-case. The down- ward extension is vastly the larger of the two, and has received the name of the perpendicular pAate of the ethmoid bone. It constitutes the upper third of the nasal septum. Its anterior boundary is inclined forward, and articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal and the crest of the nasal bones. The poste- rior border joins the sphenoidal crest of the sphenoid bone. The inferior border is obscurely angulated: the portion sloping upward and forward in front of the angle articulates with the triangular cartilage of the nose, while the portion back of the angle articu- lates with the vomer. The sides of the vertical plate are grooved for the olfactory nerves. ' Dublin Journ. of Med. Sci., xi. p. 2 Lancet, 1870, p. 694. 353. The upward extension of the vertical plate forms a robust angulated ridge, ivory-like in appearance, which has been named, from its assumed resemblance to the cock's comb, the crista yalli. Seen from the cranial surface, the crista yalli appears to arise from the horizontal plate. Its anterior border is nearly vertical, and is provided at its base with two sym- metrical flanges—the so-called ethmoidal vnngs or al<je. The great longitudinal fold of the dura mater is attached to the crista galli. Each lateral mass (ethmo-turbinate bone) is of a cuboidal figure, and presents, therefore, six surfaces for examination. Of these, the superior and inferior are imperfectly defined; the former being composed of irregular cellules that are covered in and com- pleted by the frontal bone; the latter, being part of the complicated median surface, can be described in connection therewith. The median or nasal surface (fig. 2, Plate XXIV.) is of great complexity. It is defined by a lamella that arises from the cribriform plate and descends at its anterior third to the inferior border without interrup- tion. At its origin anteriorly it is continuous with the pedicle of the uncinate process, and posteriorly with the spheno-turbinated bones. At its posterior two-thirds, the nasal surface is interrupted by a large horizontal sulcus, called, from its relations to the to- pography of the nasal chamber, the superior meatus. It is continuous with the posterior border of the bone which it deeply notches. All that portion of the bone lying between the cribriform plate and the upper mar- gin of the sulcus is called the superior turbinated bone, and all that portion between the lower border of the sulcus and the lower margin of the nasal surface is called the middle turbinated bone. The middle turbi- nated bone is scrolled outward, and constitutes the most conspicuous feature on the under surface of the bone. Directly to the outer side of the middle turbi- nate lies the large sulcus, known, when the ethmoid is articulated with its associate bones, as the middle meatus. The entire median surface of the ethmoid is minutely roughened and pitted by the delicate canals and openings of exit of the olfactory nerves. Arising in common with the anterior margin of the median surface, to which it may be regarded as an appendage, is the uncinate process or process of Blumenhach. This is an irregular lamina extending downward, outward, and backward—lying at first to the median side of the ascending process of the supe- rior maxilla, and then to the median side of the lach- rymal. The uncinate process articulates with the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated bone.