THE- BONES. 102 preserved, but the elasticity and tlie toughness are destroyed. The bone is thereby made preternaturally brittle, since it is composed entirely of bone-salts and ash. The living bone with a deficiency of organic mate- rial is thus too brittle, as one with a deficiency of in- organic material is too yielding. The mean between these extremes results in the normal property of bone. This mean varies, however, according to 'age. The bone of the infant, with its want of medullary canal and small proportion of bone-salts, while admirably adapted to a state of development, would be the source of serious disadvantage in the adolescent or adult. In old age the bones become more brittle, owing to the loss they sustain in a diminution of their organic materials. IDENTIFICATION OF BONES FOR MEDICO-LEGAL PURPOSES. Courts of justice not infrequently demand expert testimony upon the nature of bony fragments sub- mitted to examination, or upon the presumed pecu- liarities of the missing portions. Are the bones human? Do they belong to one individual? What was the sex, age, or height of the individual? Are the bones healthy or diseased? Do they show the effect of previous, recent, or old injury ? Can the time since death be determined by examination of the fragments ? The propositions embraced in such questions ne- cessarilv involve many difficulties, most of which, however, can be readily overcome. In most cases special study of the suspected part can alone be relied upon in arriving at a decision, since the indi- vidual variations of bones prevent the following of fixed rules, no matter how carefully they may have been prepared. The bones of the opposite sides of the body, while bearing a close resemblance to one another in general shape and in the relative development of the details of structure, will be often of different lengths. This fact, which tailors and shoemakers have observed from time immemorial, has awakened of late years professional interest. Dr. Wm. Hunt^ called attention to the fact that in the human body the lower limbs are of different lengths. According to the measurements of Dr. W. ' Phila. Med. Times, Jan. Jan. 1879, 102. 16, 1875 ; also Am. Journ. Med. Soi. C. Cox,' this difference exhibits a range of from one- eighth to one-half of an inch. Dr. J. S. Wight,^ in a subsequent series of observations, arrived at similar conclusions. Dr. Jeffries Wyman^ had previously de- termined that the clavicles and ulnas differ in length. In endeavoring to determine the sex of the indi- vidual, it must be borne in mind that the pelvis is the most characteristic portion of the skeleton, and that the difficulty of determining the point is rendered greater both before and after the child-bearing jjeriod. The well-known differences between the male and the fe- male pelvis need not be repeated here. It will be observed that the bones of the female are smoother, smaller, and more delicate than the corresponding bones of the male. According to Sappey, the skull of the female is longer as compared to its breadth and height than is that of the male. The manubrium of the sternum in the female, according to Hyrtl, ex- ceeds in length that of half the body of the bone; while in the sternum of the male the body is at least twice as long as the manubrium. Dr. Thomas Dwight^ showed that this rule, like most of its kind, is open to many objections. Yet one-half of the specimens measured by this observer confirmed the statements of Hyrtl. The bones of young subjects may be distinguished by the epiphyses remaining ununited with the shafts. The surface of the bone in contact with periosteum is less smooth than in the adult, and may present the appearance of the periosteum having been vio- lently detached. The vascular openings are rela- tiveJy large and numerous. The jaws are more or less occupied by developing teeth. Bones from an aged individual are either thinner or thicker than in the young adult. The outer wall of the orbito- temporal septum is thin and often diaphanous. The depressions in the bones of the cranial vertex for the Pacchionian bodies are deeper. With regard to the readjusting of detached portions of a skeleton Meyer gives the following rule for plac- ing the pelvis in its approximately correct position: Bring the anterior superior spines of the ilia and the spines of the pubes into the same vertical plane. This writer finds that a line running from the upper surface of the symphysis pubis to the transverse de- pression in the third sacral vertebra will form an ' Am. Journ. Med. Sci., April, 1875, 438. 2 Archives of Clinical Surgery, Feb. 1877, 283; Proc. Med. Soc. County of Kings, N. Y., Jan. 1878, 338. 3 Proc. Boston Nat. Hist. Soc. xi., 1868, 246. * The Identification of the Human Skeleton: a medico-legal study. Mass. Med. Soc. prize essay for 1878. Boston, 1878.