(205) THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. Joints or articulations are those portions of tlie body which serve to hold the bones iu their natural relations to one another. They assist the bones in supporting the soft parts of the body, and in resist- ing shock. They thus resemble the skeleton, with which division of anatomy some writers include them. In their simplest forms they are composed of cap- sules, ligaments, synovial membranes, fibro-cartilage, and the cartilaginous coverings of the ends of the bones. It follows that a description of a joint must be in part a repetition of the account of such surfaces of the bones as are apposed within the joints. Ligaments are bundles of fibrous tissue that assist the joint surfaces in maintaining contact, and in limit- ing their ranges of motion. In all their functions they act in conjunction with muscles. They are flexible structures, and are attached to the bones they unite; they are often continuous with the periosteum, and are intimately incorporated with the origin and the insertion of muscles. In the study of the joints it is assumed, as above mentioned, that the cartilaginous surfaces are re- tained upon the ends of the bones, and that they, together with the accessory parts, are inspected in the living condition. The following are the definitions of terms used in the descriptions:—• A Ligament is that structure which unites two separate bones. It may be composed of fibrous or elastic tissue. Prominent folds of synovial membrane are for convenience also termed ligaments. Ligaments exist either in the form of capsules or of separate bauds or thongs. A Capsular Ligament is a bag of fibrous tissue holding the apposed ends of bones together. It forms the foundation of the movable joint. It is uneven and fasciculated on the outside, but smooth on the in- side, where it is covered with the synovial membrane. Accessory Ligaments are those which aid in sup- porting the capsular ligament. The internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation is such a structure. Accessor}'- ligaments may pass over large portions of a single bone, or over many bones. Check Ligaments are those which limit the action of articular surfaces. The term is restricted by the older writers to a special ligament which limits the motion of the median atlo-axoid articulation. But in a more exact sense most of the ligaments about the joints of the limbs check undue motion of the articular surfaces. Thus the lateral ligaments of the joints between the phalanges check the lateral motion; the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament checks the otherwise too free motion of the astragalus, etc. It follows that rupture of a check ligament will create dislocation. A Facet is a portion of articular surface which is distinguished from adjacent portions of the same sur- face by difference of curvature. Thus the occipital condyle has two facets, the patella seven, the head of the astragalus four, etc. FiBRo-Cartilage is a tissue which has, as the name indicates, the properties of both fibrous tissue and cartilage. There are three varieties of fibro-cartilage —interosseous, interarticular, and circumferential. Interosseous filro-cartilage is found between the bodies of the vertebrae, or between the pubic bones. It is firmer at the periphery than elsewhere, and may con-