THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. 228 both in front and beliind. Those in front are called the Anterior Pubic Ligaments; and those behind the Posterior Pubic Ligaments, and are unimportant. A slender band passing over the tops of the pubic bones has received the name of the Superior Pubic Ligament. A more important arrangement of fibres than the above, is the Sub-Pubic Ligament. It oc- cupies the upper narrowed portion of the sub-pubic arch, and is composed of an intricate interlacement of fibres, which results in the formation of a stout membrane. It is attached above to the under surface of the symphysis, but below is free. THE SACRO-COCCYGEAL JOINT. The Sacro-Coccygeal Joint is of the same nature as the intervertebral disks, and does not demand a separate description. The joint is supported by ante- rior and posterior bands that have received the names of the Anterior and the Posterior Sacro-Cocc3'gcal Ligaments. The Hip-Joint. The hip-joint (fig. 1, Plate XLI.) serves to hold the innominate bone and tlie femur together. It belongs to the enarthrodia, and consists of the acetabulum, the head of the femur, and associated ligaments. The cartilage lining the acetabulum is thicker at the margins than at the centre, while the cartilage covering the head of the femur is thicker at the centre than at the sides. These surfaces are thus mutually adapted. The following ligaments are described in connection with the hip-joint:— The Cotyloid. The Transverse. The Capsular. The Ligamentum Teres. The Synovial Membrane. The Cotyloid Ligament is a prismoid elevation of fibro-cartilage whose base corresponds to the osseous lips of the acetabulum. It assists in deepening the socket, while slightly narrowing it at the rim. It is thinner at the anterior and at the posterior borders than elsewhere, and is composed of freely interlac- ing fibres that ascend obliquely from the bone. The Transverse Ligamicnt is a simple band of fibro- cartilage extending between the opposite borders of the cotyloid notch. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which bloodvessels and nerves pass into the joint. The Capsular Ligament is attached above to the in- nominate bone, and to the transverse and the cotyloid ligaments. Below it terminates at the sjoiral line of Fig. 7G. The hip-joint seen from in front. It is dissected to display the ilio-fenioral fascicle. the femur anteriorl}^, to the lower third of the neck posteriorly, as well as to the bone at points intermedi- ate between these. The capsule is much thicker at the upper, the outer, and the anterior portions than at the inferior and the inner, where it is thin and weak. The fibres are arranged in oblique, longitudinal, and circular bundles. Of these the longitudinal are the EXPLANATION OF PLATE XL. Fig. L The ligaments of the pelvis and of the hip-joint, seen from in front. Fig. 2. The ligaments of the pelvis, seen from behind. Fig. 3. A frontal section of the symphysis pubis. Fig. 4. A horizontal section of the symphysis pubis.