213 MENTS OF JOINTS AND LIGA TRUNK. of the cervical and the dorsal and the dorsal and lumbar vertebrte. It is estimated that the length of the intervertebral disks equals about one-fourth of the entire length of the spine. Relations.—The disks in front are in relation with the anterior vertebral ligament, and by many muscles, such as the Rectus Capitis Anticus Major, the Longus Colli, the Diaphragm, and the Psoas Magnus, and behind with the posterior ligament, with which they more intimately unite than with the anterior. Upon the sides in the neck they are in connection with the Intertransversalis muscles; in the dorsal region with the heads of the ribs; in the lumbar region with the vessels and nerves which traverse the intervertebral foramina. Remarks.—According to W. Adams,' ulceration of the intervertebral cartilages is a not unfrequent lesion in Pott's disease, and may exist independently of vertebral necrosis. From the examination of several cases of spinal disease in the early stages, and from the study of specimens in the London Museum, Mr. Adams concludes that in the majority of instances of destructive disease of the spine, the affection com- mences in ulceration of one or more of the interver- tebral fibro-cartilages, and generally in the central portions of the disk. The disease from first to last is sometimes limited to the intervertebral substance. The Anterior Vertebral Ligament (figs. 1 and 4, Plate XXXVI., fig. 1, Plate XXXVII.) extends along the front of the vertebral column from the axis to the second sacral vertebra. Straight above, it increases in breadth as it descends to a point opposite the dorsal vertebrae, where it forms, in addition to the cen- tral fasciculus, two lateral portions, which, however, are thin and present numerous openings for the passage of vessels. The ligament adheres anteriorly to the bones at such places, and throughout is firmly attached to the intervertebral disks. In minute struc- ture the ligament displays three distinct layers of fibres. The deepest are the shortest, and pass across each disk to the adjacent bodies of the vertebrjB. The next pass from one bone to the third beyond, while the most superficial arise from one bone to be inserted in the third or fourth beyond. In the neck the anterior vertebral ligament appears as a shining line between the Longus Colli muscles. In front lie the pharynx and oesophagus. Within the thorax, the azygos vein, the thoracic duct, the descend- ing aorta, and the vena cava lie upon the ligament. " Tr. Path. Soc. Lond., v. 1854, 243. Opposite .the lumbar vertebras the crura of the Dia- phragm and the Psoas muscle are attached to it. The Posterior Vertebral Ligament (fig. 1, Plate XXXVIL), thinner than the anterior, extends along the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the basilar process of the occipital bone to the lower lumbar vertebrae or even to the coccyx. It is broader above than below. Within the region of the neck it is spread evenly over the bodies of the verte- bral disks, and is thus of exceptional strength; but through the rest of its position it expands over the disks, but contracts upon the borders of the ver- tebrae opposite the pedicles, so that viewed as a whole it presents a festooned appearance. Above it is adhe- rent to the dura mater. Elsewhere it is distinct, and permits the vertebral veins to lie between it and the bone. Sappey states that it possesses more elastic tissue than does the anterior ligament. The minute arrangement of the fibres is essentially the same as in the anterior vertebral ligament. Remarks.—Both the anterior and the posterior vertebral ligaments are of great strength, and aid in limiting the motions of the vertebral column. Thus the anterior ligament acts as a check to extreme backward motion, as the posterior ligament pre- vents extreme forward motion. It is probable that after displacement of an intervertebral disk the liga- ments in question may prove to be capable of modi- fying the degree of dislocation of the contiguous vertebral bodies. Especially is this likely to be the case where the ligaments are of unusual strength. The Interspinous Ligaments (fig. 2, Plate XXXVIL) are thin membranous bands which unite the spines, from the root to near the apices, of all the vertebras from the seventh cervical to the sacrum. They are the least developed in the dorsal region, but are thick and quadrangular in the lumbar. The Supraspinous Ligament extends between the summits of the spines of the vertebrte posteriorly to the interspinous ligaments with which it is continuous. In the neck it is thought to be represented by the ligamentum nuchae. The ligament is best developed in the lumbar region, where it assists in closing the spinal canal. It is connected by numerous points of contact with the Erector Spinae muscle. According to Quain, its posterior fibres pass downward from a given vertebra to a distance answering to the third or fourth vertebra below; those more deeply situated reach only from one to the next or the second below.