GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS. OOO^OOO — 101 minuted fracture, portions of bone of variable size are thus denuded, and suffer from atropljy or death in consequence. Mr. Annandale' reports an instance in which the periosteum liad been stripped from the patella in a case of rupture of the patellar ligament. In some forms of dislocation an analogous lesion oc- curs ; such, for example, is the elevation of the strong layer of periosteum covering the posterior surface of the sternum in displacements of the manubrium upon the gladiolus,—the lower end of the former lying behind the upper end of the latter.^ Medulla.—The interior of the bone is occupied by a peculiar fatty substance which has received the name of the medulla. The membranous surfaces of the medulla, which lie in contact with the bone, have been often spoken of collectively as the endosteum^ although such a membrane cannot be separated from the medulla. The spongy ends of the long bones, and the interior of the flat and irregular bones, do not possess the fatty medulla, but in its place there is a reddish fleshdike substance occupying the interstices of the cancelli, which, under the microscope, resolves itself into large nucleated cells. It is from this tissue that the fatty medulla has originated, since we find in the bones of the infant that the medullary cavity and the fatty medulla are absent, and that their places are occupied by the same tissue which is seen throughout late childhood and adult life in the ex- tremities alone. Fresh Bone.—The fresh hone is found to be of a faint yellowish-pink or bluish yellow color, the de- gree of bluish tinge being determined by the condi- tion of the circulation at the time of the death of the individual. In deaths from drowning, or in analogous states in which the blood has become largely sur- charged with carbonic acid, the bones are bluer than in deaths from other causes. The yellow color is due to the effect of the presence of the fluids in the body and the fatty medulla upon the white color of the osseous tissue. Bones of the young subject are more uniformly red than those of the adult. Dry Boxe.—When the blood, fat, membrane, and cartilage are removed from a bone, as, for example, by maceration, the color becomes white. In this condition the bone is porous. All the interstices and the canals leading thereto are freely continuous with one another ; the bone thus absorbs fluid readily, and ' Edinburgh Med. .Toiirnal, 1875, 838. 2 W. Riviugtoii, Med. Chir. Trans., Ivii. 102. will permit a column of mercury to pass through it as through a sieve, from end to end. The outer surface of the well-developed long bone, as the femur and humerus, is found to be marked by minute elevations, with intervening linear depressions, while here and there over the surface of the bone are small, flat, whelk-like nodules. The surfaces are also pitted by innumerable minute orifices for bloodvessels, and near the extremities by larger ones (mostly for veins) opening from the bottom of the large depressions there present. The main nutritive canal of the long bone enters in some part of the shaft, and passes obliquely into the me- dullary cavity. The direction of this canal varies in the different bones. In the ulna, radius, and femur it is directed upward ; and in the tibia and humerus it is directed downwards. The dry bone, when exposed for a long time to the atmosphere, splits into laminos. It is thus proved that the osseous tissue is laminated, and not homogeneous in structure. Chemical Analysis. — Bone when subjected to chemical analysis yields — Calcium carbonate Magnesium phosphate Calcium phosjjhate Calcium tluoride . Organic matter 7.05 2.08 58.39 2.25 30.23 100.00 Thus nearly one-third of the component parts of bone is composed of organic, and the remaining two- thirds of inorganic substances. If bone be subjected to the prolonged action of an acid,^ the inorganic substances are dissolved, leaving the organic unchanged. The form of the bone by this procedure is preserved, but its consistence is fibrous merely, and its strength and rigidity are lost. Such a specimen can be bent in any position by mode- rate force, and in the case of the fibula can be even tied in a knot. If, on the other hand, the organic portions be re- moved, by subjecting a bone to the action of fire (as in a furnace), the organic matters are destroyed by burning, and the inorganic portions only are left. The form of the bone, as in the other procedure, is ' Gorup-Besanez. Anleitung zur Qualitativen und Quantitativen Zoochemischen Analyse, 1871, 420. 2 For this purpose a solution of hydrochloric acid in water may be prepared, having a strength of one part of acid to sixteen of water. The fluid should be renewed daily.