139 THE BONES OF THE HEAD. oOO^OOc with tlie upper lateral cartilage of the nose, and is marked by a notch for the transmission of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. The median edge of the nasal surface forms a slight projection, which has received the name of the nasal crest. Structure.—The nasal bone is of enormous rela- tive thickness at its upper third: the lower portion is almost laminar in consistence. Articulation.—Each nasal bone is joined to its fellow of the opposite side, to the frontal bone, to the ascending process of the superior maxilla, and to the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone. Development.—The nasal bone arises from a single centre of ossilication, which a}ipears about the eighth week. Eemarks.—The articulation at the upper portion of the bones gives the nasals great strength in resist- ing the shocks of blows. The weight of such blows is in great part received by the cranium through the medium of the nasals. Blows received upon the side of the nose may break or displace these bones with comparative ease.—That the nasal bones are in part sustained in position by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone is made evident by the sinking of the osseous part of the external nose in loss of this plate by necrosis. The place of the nasal bones when these are congenitally absent, as is infrequently the case, is taken by the ascending process of the su- perior maxilla. It may be composed of a single bone lying below the conjoined ascending processes of the superior maxillae.' In the cyclops variety of monster, which is characterized by an imperfect development of all the parts lying between the orbits, the rudi- ments of the nasal bones occupy a narrow projecting mass of skin-covered tissue entirely separated from the superior maxilla and the ethmoid bone, but in continuity through the normal attachment- with the frontal bone. THE INFERIOR MAXILLA. The inferior maxilla or lower jaw (figs. 6 and 7, Plate XXI.) is the largest and most massive bone of the face. It forms the boundary of the under part of the anterior and the lateral region of the face, where its ' .1. Van der Hoeveu, Jr. xL, 18G2, p. 138. Zeitsclir. fiir Wissenschaftliche ZooloKie, lower border can be defined .under the skin. It con- sists of a horizontal arch, with its curves directed in front and its sides elevated at an angle behind. The bone is moved on the base of the skull at the temporal bone by powerful muscles. The lowef jaw is composed of two halves ; after their union it is convenient to divide the bone into a body, or horizontal portion, and two ascending por- tions or rami. The hody of the bone laterally is marked above by the edge of the alveolar jjrocess, and below by a thickened, rounded border. In the median line at the point of union of the primitive halves is a linear ridge —the sympliysis. The widened and projecting basal extremity of this line is called \h.Q mental process. At the side of the symphysis, on a line with the lateral incisor tooth, is the incisor fossa, from which, the Levator Labii luferioris arises. Below this point, and to its outer side, is a shallow depression for the Depressor Anguli Oris muscle. The line of inser- tion of the Platysma Myoides muscle lies below the latter, on the basal border. Opposite and below the interspace between the second molar and first bi- cuspid, and about midway between the basal border and the teeth, is seen the anterior dental foramen, which aftbrds exit to the inferior dental nerve and artery. The basal border of the body near the ramus is grooved for the reception of the facial artery. Ex- tending obliquely upward and backward to the ante- rior root of the coronoid process is the external ohlique line. The median side of the body is conspicuously divided by an oblique ridge, which extends from the base of the coronoid process downward and forward. This has received the name of the mylo-hyoid ridge, and serves for the origin of the Mylo-Hyoid muscle. Be- tween this ridge and the molar teeth slips of the Buc- cinator and Superior Constrictor muscles are attached. At a point below the canine teeth, a smooth depres- sion supports the anterior border of the sublin-gual salivary gland. Below the mylo-hyoid ridge, a small groove running nearly parallel therewith receives the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. A well-marked oval depression near the basal border anteriorly is for the insertion of the Digastric muscle. At the lower part of the symphysis are found the genial tubercles, ordi- narily composed of four processes—two on either side of the median line. The superior process is for the origin of the Genio-Hyo-Glossus, and the inferior for the Genio-Hyoid muscle. The ascending portion, or ramus, is imperfectly de- fined from the body anteriorly. Posteriorly it pre-