164 THE BONES. ooo^Oe>-= more strongly attached to the manubrium than to the ghidiolus. This explains the fact that in luxation of the manubrium or the gladiolus the latter always abandons the cartilage of the second rib, while the former remains constantly united to it. Episternal bones in the form of small sub-rounded nodules attached to the upper margin of the manu- brium are rarely seeu.^ They are situated on either side of tlie interclavicular notch, and are homologous with the larger bones of the same name in the mono- treme mammals. In man they are of use in giving increased support to the thoracic ends of tlie clavi- cles.—A tumor of the sternum simulating aneurism has been described by Ollivier.^—The projection on the anterior surface of the bone at the union between the manubrium and the gladiolus, when pronounced, retains the mediaeval name of the amjulus Ludovici. It indicates recession of the first pair of ribs, and is often found associated with other tubercular tendencies.— The skin over the sternum retracts to a great degree after incision. More than usual care should as a result be taken in making incisions in this region of the body.^—For dift'erences in the measurements of the sternum in the male and the female, see page 102. The sternum being suspended to the costal carti- lages follows the movements of respiration. The lower portion is pushed forward in inspiration, while the bone is raised. It follows that the relations of the sternum to the fixed parts will vary. Subject to slight modification it may be said that the upper margin of the sternum answers to the second dorsal vertebra or to the second dorsal spine; the junction between the manubrium and the gladiolus is opposite the third dorsal spine, and the junction between the gladiolus and the ensiform cartilage is opposite the sixth dorsal spine.—The median line of the sternum is not parallel to the median line of the abdomen, but forms with it an angle at the ensiform cartilage which is directed to the right.'* THE THORAX. The thorax is that portion of the skeleton formed by the articulation of the ribs, the costal cartilages, the sternum, and the dorsal vertebrge. In the undis- sected subject, the thorax is equivalent to the chest of ' Luschka, Zeit. fur wissenschaft. Zool., 1852, 36; T. W. King, Guy's Hosp. Rep. v. 1840, 227. 2 Comptes Rendus, 1868, 221. 3 Richet, Anat. Medico-Cliirurg., 545. * Sibson, 1. c, quoted from J. W. Conradi. Upon the Position and Size of the Thoracic Organs, (iiessen, 1848, 3. common language, and includes the Intercostal m.us- cles at the sides and the Diaphragm at the base. The thorax is the great respiratory cavity of the body as well as the chamber for protection to the heart, and in some degree to the great vessels, the oesophagus, and in the foetus to the thymus gland. The figure of the thorax is conical, compressed from before backward, and presents oblique upper and lower surfaces. It is grooved longitudinally on either side of the spinous processes at the back; it is flat, and inclined slightly forward in front, and is convex at the sides. Within, the thorax presents a general concave surface except posteriorly, where the bodies of the dorsal vertebras project forward. Its greatest circumference is about its middle or a little below, where its average measurement is twenty-five inches. The thorax presents for examination the dorsal ver- tebras, the ribs, the costal cartilages, and the sternum (which have been described), as well as the superior and inferior apertures, and the intercostal spaces. The superior thoracic aperture is bounded behind by the body of the first or second dorsal vertebra, at fhe sides by the first pair of ribs and the costal cartilages, and in front by the upper border of the sternum. It is kidney-shaped, its antero-posterior (sagittal) diameter being a little over two inches, while its transverse (frontal) is nearly five. It contains the oesophagus, the trachea, the apices of the lungs, the pleurte, the sub- clavian arteries and veins, the carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, the termination of the thoracic ducts, and the lymphatics and n&rves. The inferior thoracic apertar.e is of an irregular figure, owing to the absence of union of the eleventh and twelfth ribs with the other ribs or sternum. It is less fixed in its outline as compared to the superior aperture, in consequence of the larger proportion of cartilage intervening between the ends of the ribs and the sternum. It is closed by the Diaphragm in the subject, yet permitting the passage of the inferior vena cava, the aorta, the oesophagus, the main thoracic duct, and the sympathetic nerves. The intercostal spaces are narrower behind than in front, and with the upper ribs they are widest at about the junction of the ribs and the costal carti- lages. The spaces between the false ribs naturally lessen in width as the cartilages converge towards each other. The spaces are occupied in the subject by the Intercostal muscles, the arteries, and the nerves. The first and the second are larger than the others, but on the whole the spaces tend to increase from above downward—that between the sixth and the seventh rib being the widest at the sternal margin.