THE HIP-JO I NT. :x=>O^OOo 229 most important, and extend for the most part along the front of the joint. A superficial fascicle of great strength (ilio-fenioral or Y-shaped ligament), triangular in form, with its base directed downward, is attached above to the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, to the space between it and the rim of the acetabulum. It passes downward and outward, and finally bifur- cates at the neck of the femur, one bundle going to the spiral line, the other to the depression in front of the lesser trochanter. (See Fig. 76.) In the inter- val between these branches the deep layer of fibres of the capsule is seen. The anterior surface of the capsule is in close relation with the Gluteus Minimus muscle, and less intimately with the reflected tendon of the Eectus Femoris, and the conjoined tendon of the Iliacus Internus and Psoas Magnus. Between the ligament and the last-named muscles a bursa is seen, which often communicates with the interior of the joint. The ischio-capsulai (ischio-fetnoral) bundle is at- tached above to the ischial rim of the acetabulum and the smooth surface between it and the great sciatic notch. The fibres pass horizontally outward, and are lost in the capsule.—A small accessory fascicle, the so- called pubo-capsular ligament (pectineo-femoral) is at- tached beneath the Pectineus muscle from the pubic border of the obturator foramen or the cotyloid notch, and extends thence to the capsule.—A process of the iliac fascia is detached opposite the pectineal eminence, and passes between the Iliacus Internus and the Pec- tineus muscle to the capsule.—At points between the above-mentioned fascicles the capsule is weak, and com- posed of circular and oblique fibres. Of these the cir- cular are the most important. They are especially well developed behind, where they embrace the neck of the femur, and run parallel to the fibres of the Internal Oblique muscle, forming a collar-like band about its lower third, but without attachment to the bone. The synovial membrane is reflected from the femur to the capsule at this point. The Liyamcntum Teres is not round, as the name would imply, but flat. It arises from the edges of the cotyloid notch by two distinct fascicles, which are attached to the transverse ligament, and by a third less defined root, which is derived from the border of the depressed base of the acetabulum that supports a cushion of fat. The ligament ascends round the head of the femur, to be attached to a depression a little below the centre. The ligamentum teres is broader and more compact at its upper than at its lower attacliment. It tends to check rotation out- ward in the flexed position. The Synovial Membrane is in contact with the opposing surfiices, encloses the round ligament, and is supported by the lower and inner parts of the capsule. Movements.—The movements of the hip-joint con- sist of extension, flexion, adduction, abduction, and rotation. The terms eversion and inversion, while referring to the limb as a whole, are determined, by the hip-joint. Eversion of the limb corresponds to extension with rotation outward, inversion to exten- sion with rotation inward. Eotation is naturally less exact when the joint is extended than when it is flexed, since in the first-named position the movement is re- stricted by the tense ilio-femoral fasciculus, while in flexion the rela.xed capsule and the tense ligamentum teres—in the event of flexion being comVjined with rotation outward—alone restrict it. Extremes of rotation upward are checked by tension of the lower part of the capsule as well as by the contact of the lower border of the neck against the upper margin of the acetabukim. — Extreme of rotation downward brings the most convex portion of the head against the shallowest part of the socket. The movement is checked by the ilio-femoral fasciculus. Dislocations of the hip will be determined by the ineffective resistance presented in the checks to the various movements of the joint. It will require a greater force to efi'ect dislocation in extension than in flexion, and in flexion with adduction than in flexion with abduction. In addition to the above elementary statement of the hip-joint movements, the following more elabo- rate description is herewith presented. Extension is effected by the head of the femur being thrown forward, and one-half of its anterior surface, viz., that answering to the anterior aspect of the neck, brought out of the acetabulum, while a small portion of the under and posterior surface lies within that cavity. In extension the ilio-femoral fasciculus is tense. Flexion is the reverse of the above-named move- ment. The anterior aspect of the head and a small portion of the neck now recede within the acetabulum, while the upper and posterior parts are brought out. In flexion the ischio-femoral fasciculus is tense, and the ilio-femoral relaxed. In flexion combined with adduction the lower portion of the head passes well within the acetabulum, but is free near the neck else-