THE BONES. 104 =00^00^ thyroid or obturator foramen in the innominate bone, the opening is closed by membrane, which, however, is pierced for the passage of a small nerve and artery. The development of the more complex single cranial bones, such as the temporal and sphenoid, explains the apparent anomaly of nerves and bloodvessels piercing resistant bony walls. Each vessel and nerve will be found to lie between the several elements composing the bone, or in a foramen or canal near the margin of the several component parts. Thus tlie facial nerve, in its intricate passage through the temporal bone, passes between the parts making up the embryonic temporal bone. The branches of the fifth cranial nerve pass through the maryin of bones near the primary interspace between distinct embryonic portions of the sphenoid bone. In young subjects the foramina isolating the different branches of a nerve are imperfect, and in some animals they have no separate existence. It is rare for a nerve to pierce a bone, as a small branch is sometimes seen perforating the clavicle, or a nerve and artery passing through a foramen above the epitrochlear process of the humerus. REMARKS. Bones as Mechanical Agents The student is espe- cially urged to examine the bones as mechanical agents. He should constantly seek for the conditions wliich underlie or (not to speak too boldly) create the ossific forms. Thus, in studying the bones of the face, he should observe that the ascending nasal process of the superior maxilla is stout in order that it should receive and distribute the force of the occlusion of the lower maxilla against the upper; while the lachrymal bone immediately behind it is thin and weak, since none of the same or similar labor is exacted of it. Likewise, in the innominate bone the prismatic elevation extending from the sacro-iliac symphysis to the acetabulum comprises the most massive portion of the bone, since it is the supporter of the sacrum and indirectly of the superim- posed vertebras; while the bone on either side of the thick- ening (often so thin as to be translucent) possesses little or no strength. Variations in the Shapes of Bones—Variations in the form of bones are due to alteration of (1) blood-supply, and (2) the strength of muscular attachments. (1) In studying the varieties of form due to blood supply, it must be remembered that the needs of the tissues determine the quantity of blood going to them. Hence, variations with a tendency to excess of size are found in locations showing the greatest functional activity, while variations of reduction of size are seen in locations of diminished activity. For instance, the variations in the form of the atlas are of two kinds—those in which the lateral portions of the bone are larger than usual, and those in which the median portion of the bone is smaller than usual. The former is explained by the fact that increased functional activity has led to increased vascular supply; and the latter by the fact that the retarded activity has led to diminished vascular supply. The direction by which arteries enter the long bones will be seen to determine the degree of vascularity at the ends thereof. Thus the nutrient vessel of the shaft of the femur being directed upward, congestion of the medulla is more apt to occur at the proximal than at the distal part of the bone. The nutrient vessel of the tibia, running as it does downward, will tend to fix the position of congestive change at the distal end of the bone. After fracture of a long bone, the portion remote from the main source of blood-supply may undergo atrophy—Epiphyses are very vascular, as compared to the shafts of bones, and, all things being equal, the longer the period of separation of an epiphysis from its shaft during development the longer is the vascularity of the epiphysis sustained, and therefore the greater the liability it incurs to the invasion of disease. (2) The lines of tendinous insertion of muscles of the limbs often modify the surfaces upon which they appear, and serve as boundaries of topographical divisions of the bones. This is conspicuous in the humerus, ulna, femur, tibia, and fibula. In the last two bones, the lines fix- ing the interosseous membrane—itself an intermuscular septum—separate the anterior from the posterior surfaces. The linea aspera of the femur is exclusively a ridge of mus- cular significiince, and is determined by the fibres of the tendons of the adductor and extensor muscles here aggre- gated The lines of exaggerations of growth seen in bones are apt to be associated with the relations of the fleshy parts. They oftentimes constitute the minor degrees of difference between bones of individuals, and even between the corresponding bones on the opposite sides of the same individual. They give, in addition, the best clue to causes for location of morbid growths, particularly the exostoses. The exostoses often existing in the line of the condylar inser- tion of the Adductor Magnus muscle (the "rider's bone"), as well as the osteophyses along the lines of intermuscular septa at the lower part of the fibula, are of this significance. In muscular subjects the humerus is often obscurely angulated at the part at which the Deltoid muscle is at- tached. This is sometimes so pronounced as to form a variety in the shape of the bone. In other bones the surface of origin for the third head of the Triceps muscle is convex instead of flat, and gives the bone the appearance of being bowed forwards. If such a specimen be laid upon a plane surface, the distal end of the bone will not touch the plane—the bone resting upon the iiead and the centre of the above-named tricipital surface—Specimens of chronic ostitis of the humerus are not rare in which the dis- ease has been confined to this portion of the humerus On the other hand, an osseous surface is sometimes seen covered