THE JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE FOOT. 237 superior articular surfoce is exposed, including a small portion of the surface of the outer malleolus, while ligaments relaxed in extension are now tense, and those previously tense are now relaxed. The movement is limited by the anterior lip of the tibial surface impinging against the neck of the astragalus. The ankle-joint in flexion is firmly fixed; rotation of the bones of the leg is transmitted to the astraga- lus ; and motion takes place between the astragalus and the calcaneo-scaphoid concavity. In extension a very slight lateral motion is perceptible between the tibia and the astragalus. The middle fascicle of the external lateral ligament and the analogous band in the internal lateral liga- ment extending from the bones of the leg to the calca- neum—thus passing over the astragalus—have caused the last-named bone to be held in part as analogous to an interarticular disk between the bones of the leg on the one hand, and the calcaneum and the scaphoid on the other. It is interesting in this connection to recall the facility with which persons who have lost the astra- galus by excision of this bone after dislocation may yet walk with comparative ease. In such examples the distal ends of the bones of the leg move upon the calcaneo-scaphoid socket after the fashion of the head of the astragalus. In birds the astragalus is permanently anchylosed to the tibia, so that all the motions between the leg and the foot are such as occur in the human subject in flexion of the ankle between the leg and astraga- lus as one factor, and the remaining tarsal bones as the other. The attachments of the ligaments of the ankle- joint are so strong that severe wrenchings will more often result in the separation of the osseous surfaces in connection with the fibres of the ligaments than in rupture of the. ligaments themselves. Mr. Callender, who first called attention to this subject, justly believes that the occurrence of such violence to the living bone is an efficient cause in prolonging the reparation of injuries incident to a severely sprained ankle. ; In Pott's fracture, in which the fibula is fractured at the lower third, the ankle-joint is of necessity im- paired in its functions. The ginglymoid character of the joint is destroj^ed by the separation of the exter- nal malleolar surface from the astragalus. Dr. "VY. W. Keen has observed that in this fracture the astragalus can be pushed away from its contact against the in- ternal malleolus with ease. In talipes equinus the anterior portions of the lateral ligaments are lengthened, while the jiosterior are shortened. Earely a bursa, lying beneath the internal lateral ligament, communicates with this joint, or with the joint between the head of the astragalus and the sca- phoid bone and the calcaneum. Nerves.—The ankle receives posteriorly a nerve from the posterior tibial nerve, anteriorly one from the anterior tibial. Arteries.—These are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and the peroneal arteries. The Joints and Ligaments of the Foot. The bones of the foot are adapted to one another by concave, convex, or flat surfaces, and are held together by ligaments of great strength and variety. When the weight of tlie body is borne by the foot, the astragalus is fi.xed between the malleoli, and func- tionally acts in this position as a continuation of the tibia in transferring the weight to the remaining tarsal bones. As a result of this weight there is a disposition on the part of the bones of the tarsus to be pressed down- ward, the arches of the foot to be destroyed, and the metatarsal bones to spread laterally. Both joint- surfaces and the ligaments tend by their disposition to overcome this tendency, which is still further resisted by the lines of traction of muscles. The ligaments are all stouter and more varied on the plantar surface and in the interosseous spaces than on the dorsal surface. The follow^ing classification will be followed in this connection :— The Joints and Ligaments of the Tarsus. The Joints and Ligaments between the Tarsus and the Metatarsus. The Inter-Metatarsal Joints and Ligaments. The Joints and Ligaments between the Metatarsus and the Phalanges. The Inter-Phalangeal Joints and Ligaments. THE JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE TARSUS. The joints of the tarsus (figs. 2, 8, 5, Plate XLII.) are the following :— The joint between the astragalus and the calca- neum posterior to the interosseous ligament. It pos- sesses a separate synovial membrane and capsule. The joint between the astragalus, and the calcaneum in advance of the interosseous ligament, together with