THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 167 000^00= be defined iu the undissected subject between the thorax and the scapula, receiving above the insertions of muscles descending from the neck, and affording surfaces of origin to those ascending from the sides of the chest. The clavicle is inclined from the ster- num and the first costal cartilage (see fig. 3, Plate XXXVII.) a little diagonally outward and backward, and at the thoracic two-thirds is cylindroid, while at the scapular third it is flat, thin, and irregular. Seen from above, the bone is shaped like an italic letter /, placed horizontally; the initial right-hand curve is the thoracic end, the main stroke of the letter is the cvlindrical shaft or lody ; the terminal curve is the scapular or acromial end. At the junction of the thoracic end with the shaft, on the under surface, the impression for the casta-clavicular ligament is seen; at the junction of the body with the scapular portion lies the conoid txihercle. The l)ody of the clavicle extends from the outer margin of the impression for the costo-clavicular liga- ment to the conoid tubercle. It is slightly narrowed from before backward to give origin to the clavicular fibres of the Pectoralis Major muscle ; it is convex anteriorly and concave posteriorly. The curves of the body are continuous with those of the thoracic, but are abruptly separated from those of the scapu- lar end. The orifice of a nutritious canal directed laterally is seen on the posterior surface. Stretch- ing across the under surface of the body from the conoid tubercle in front to the posterior and in- ferior border is an oblique line which limits the surface of origin of the Pectoralis Major muscle inferiorly. Near the oblique line is the narrow depression for the Subclavian muscle. The thoracic end of the clavicle is nearly square, the anterior and the posterior surfaces remaining as in the body, while the superior and inferior are broader. The superior smooth surface receives at its posterior border the insertion of the clavicular portion of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoideus muscle. The anterior sur- face presents a ridge for the fibres of the Pectoralis Major, while the inferior surface toward its anterior aspect is roughened, as already mentioned, by the impression for the costo-clavicular ligament. The posterior surface is smooth. The articular surface is of a triangular or subrounded figure, the broadest portion being directed upward and forward, while the narrowest is downward and backward. The articular surface is depressed in the centre, and all the borders excepting tlie superior are rounded, and appear more or less upon the sides (fig. 2, Plate XXVI.). The antero-inferior lateral facet, as contrasted with the others, is limited abruptly by a sharply projecting lip. The lower end is the least liable of any part of the thoracic portion to be invaded by diseased ac- tion. In the macerated bone the articular surface is roughened and irregular, but in the subject it is smooth and saddle-shaped. The sccqmlar or acromial end of the clavicle ex- tends from the conoid tubercle to the end of the bone. It is broad and flat, thicker behind than in front, sharply concave anteriorly and abruptly convex pos- teriorly. The anterior edge of the upper surface gives origin to the Deltoid muscle by a deep lunated impres- sion. Near the posterior border a faint ridge indicates the insertion of the clavicular fibres of the Trapezius. The under surface from the conoid tubercle forward and outward is irregularly ridged (oblique line) for the attachment of the coraco-clavicular ligament. The oval or rounded scapular (acromial) articular surface does not occupy the entire end ; it joins the anterior edge of the bone, and looks obliquely downward and outward. Structure.—The clavicle resembles a long bone iu presenting a shaft with walls and spongy extremi- ties. The shaft or body is in great part occupied by a number of lamellae, beginning and continuous with the thin anterior wall, and extending across the body near to the enormously thick posterior wall. The latter is thicker in the middle than towards the ends of the body, and is gradually lost within the thoracic and the scapular ends. At the junction of the body with the scapular end, the anterior is of equal thickness with the posterior wall, and the interior of the bone is filled with coarse, stout laminae. It is probable that the disposition of the parts last named explains the great relative frequency of fracture of the clavicle at the junction of the outer with the middle third of the bone as compared with fracture at any other portion. In the thoracic third the can- celli are small, and give increased compactness to the bone at this part. The uppermost cancelli, being here the weakest, are often exposed and disintegrated in cabinet specimens. In the scapular end the most compact tissue lies anteriorly in the line of the facet of articulation; posteriorly the cancelli resemble in structure and behavior the upper portion of the thoracic end already described. Development.—The clavicle arises from cartilage^ by two centres of development: one for the main ' The bone is generally described as arising from fibrous tissue. Gegeubaur {infra) is the authority for the contrary statement.