LIGAMENTS OF THE SHOULDER. 219 exists between the inferior portion of the thoracic end and the first rib. The symphyseal motion is capable of assuming, under some conditions, a great degree of latitude, owing to the mobility of the interarticular disk. It would be brought greatly into play in the act of swimming. The diarthrodial movements are determined by the actions of the muscles that depress and draw forward or backward the clavicle, as follow- ing the forced action of the Pectoralis Major, the Latissimus Dorsi, etc. The movements of symphy- sis are in a measure checked by the interarticular ligament, while those of diarthrosis are checked by the costo-clavicular ligament. The claviculo-sternal articulations are of great strength, since upon the maintenance of the clavicle against the sternum depend the movements of the humerus. Luxation of this joint is infrequently seen. Tlie bone may also be displaced upward and, more rarely, backward. The Joint and Ligaments of the Shoulder. The region of the shoulder includes the scapular cud of the clavicle, the scapula, and the head, neck, and tuberosities of the humerus, together with the soft parts covering the above structures. The ligaments and the joint structures are as fol- lows :— The Ligaments of the Scapula. The Scapular attachments of the Clavicle. The Shoulder-Joint. THE ligaments OF THE SCAPULA. The ligaments of the scapula are— The Transverse. The Acromio-Coracoid. The Glenoid. The Transverse Ligament is a delicate band of fibrous tissue, extending across the scapular notch. It arises from the base of the coracoid process, and it is inserted into the external edge of the upper border of the scapula. It consists, as a rule, of two fasciculi, one pertaining to the dorsal, the other to the ventral aspect of the notch.—Usually transverse, the fibres of this ligament may be oblique, and nearly parallel to the axillary border of the scapula, and in part con- tinuous with the fibres of the conoid portion of the coraco-clavicnlar ligament. The Acromio-Coracoid Ligament extends as a broad, somewhat triangular ligament between the lateral border of the coracoid process and the tip of tlie acro- mion. It is free and thick behind, but tapers in front where it is continuous with a thin layer of connective tissue underlying the Deltoid muscle. It is lost in the counective tissue over the infra-spinous fossa.—Ac- cording to Ilenle, the posterior margin of this ligament passes over the supra-spinous fossa. Beneath, the ligament is loosely held to the tendon of the Supra- spiuatus muscle and the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The upper surface, from which it is separated by a bursa, is covered by the Deltoid muscle. The outline of the ligament can be felt under the skin. The acromio-coracoid ligament and the coracoid process and the acromion form a wide though low vault, against which the head of the humerus and the upper portion of the great tuberosity are held during the contraction of the Supra-spinatus muscle and the consequent elevation of the arm. The Glenoid Ligament is a triangular rim of fibro- cartilage which surrounds the edges of the glenoid fossa. It is usually less thick below than above, where it is in intimate association with the tendon of the Biceps muscle. It is more prominent on the median as compared with the lateral edge, is of a yel- low color, and composed of concentrically arranged fibres, THE SCAPULAR ATTACHMENTS OF THE CLAVICLE. These are two in number as follows:— The Acromio-Clavicular Joint. The Coraco-Clavicular Ligament. The Acrornio-Clavicular Joint. The Acromio-Clavicular Joint consists of a diar- throdial joint situated between the clavicle and the acromion, and is composed of two obliquely placed opposed facets, the upper of which is derived from the clavicle. Both surfaces are covered with a thin layer of fibro-cartilage. It is subject to much vari- ation in form, and is best developed in muscular individuals. It presents for examination the following struc- tures :— The Superior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament. The Inferior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament. The Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage. The Synovial Membrane. The Superior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament consists of straight fibres extending from the lateral end of the clavicle to the median side of the acromion. The Inferior Acromio-Clavicular Ligament extends between corresponding points with the superior, and does'not require separate description. Some writers