107 uniting these parts, since special descriptions and en- tirely distinctive relations are required properly to elucidate them. Omitting, therefore, the sacrum and coccyx, the vertebral column is composed of— 7 cervical vertebrje, 12 dorsal vertebree, 5 lumbar vertebrge, making a total of 24 bones. The vertebral column is best studied when the in- tervertebral disks, ligaments, and articulations are in position. By this union of the separate bones, the intervertebral notches become connected into inter- vertebral foramina; the various segments of the vertebral canal join with one another; the facets for articulation of the ribs become complete sockets; and the space in each bone between the spinous and the transverse processes extending the entire length of the spine,^ becomes known as the vertebral groove. As a whole, the vertebral column protects the con- tents of the vertebral canal, aftbnls attachments to important muscles, and supports the head, while guarding it from shock. It serves in front to protect the viscera, and in an indirect manner to furnish points of attachment to structures holding the viscera in position. Thus the descending aorta is firmly fixed to the spine along its entire course,—-and from and about it the mesenteric and other peritoneal folds arise. The vertebral column increases in size from above downward, and may be said to rest upon the sacrum by the massive bodies of the lumbar vertebra. Its form, therefore, is pyramidal, but this form is much modified by the presence or absence of ribs as well as by surfaces for ligamentous and muscular attach- ments. Its lenyth is about one-third that of the body. Mechanics of the Vertebral Column.—The mechanics of the vertebral column embraces three distinct subjects:— (1) The adaptation of the vertebras to support the head. (2) The degree of motion present between the ver- tebriB. (3) The production of spinal curvatures. {V) The adaptation of the vertehrse to support the head. —The head rests directly upon the lateral portions of the atlas. The weight is thence conveyed through the superior articular processes to the bodies of the vertebral column, but a portion is sent to the lateral ' It will be noticed that the words " spine" and " vertebral col- umn" are used synonymously, as are the words "spine" and "spinous process." masses of the remaining cervical vertebrae as well, and through them to the bodies of the dorsal and lumbar vertebrae. There are thus two lines of weight in the vertebral column: one direct through the superior ar- ticular facets of the axis to the bodies; and another passing from the same point downward through the columniform articular region of the cervical vertebrae to the dorsal region, whence it again passes to the bodies, which now sustain the weight of the super- incumbent mass. The shape of the spine directly assists in sustaining the weight of the head. According to F. 0. Ward,' the lumbar region—the most massive—contributes seven parts to the column; the dorsal, eleven; and the cervical, five. The lumbar and nine lower dorsal vertebrae form a pyramid whose base rests on the sacrum. The six lower cervical vertebras form another pyramid, whose base rests on the first dorsal, and whose apex is surmounted by the atlas on which again is balanced the globe of the cranium. Between these two pyramids, and extending from the base of the upper to the apex of the lower, intervene the three superior dorsal vertebrae, which constitute a third, but inverted pyramid. Thus, though the whole col- umn presents a cone whose base is somewhat more than double the diameter of the apex, yet this main pyramid is composed of three subordinate pyramids. It is evident from this disposition of parts that a structure of enormous strength arises well adapted to the special demands made upon it. (2) The degree of motion present between the vertehrse. —The articular processes are also of great import- ance in the mechanics of the vertebral column. The motion between the articular surfaces is greater in the cervical than in either the dorsal or the lumbar re- gion. On the whole it may be said to become less in regular degree fron^ above downward. In the lum- bar region the inferior articular processes are in a measure embraced by the superior. In the dorsal region the surfaces are simply apposed, but the mo- tion between them is impaired by the imbrication of the dorsal spines and the manner of articulation of the ribs. (3) The production of sp)inal curvatures.—The weight of the body above, and the traction of muscles at the sides, cause the vertebral column to assume a number of curvatures. These modify the shapes of the bones, and enable them to best accommo- date themselves to the forces mentioned. The pecu- liarities of shape of the bodies, the intervertebral ' Outlines of Human Osteology, 18.