tinuous with the opposed ends of the bones. But 2 Journ. Anat. and Fhys., 1878, p. 88 GENERAL CON and-socket joint. The metacarpo-trapezoidal joint is the best example of a saddle joint in the body. The conical variety of diarthrosis (pivot joint).—The convexity in this variety is in the form of a cone or disk, and clasped by a constricting liga- ment. Since in rotation the bone rolls upon its longitudinal axis, it is found that the axis of rotation of a conical joint agrees with that of the bone on whose periphery it occurs. Examples are seen in the superior radio-ulnar articulation, and in the atlanto- axoid articulation in part. The composite variety of diarthrosis.—-When the contrasts between the various facets of a joint are inconspicuous, it is said to be simple; when they are decided, it is said to be composite, since it com- bines in one the features of the spherical, the conical, or the cylindrical joint. A distinct motion is pre- sumed to correlate with each well-defined facet or curvature. When several kinds of curvature unite to produce a single motion, as, for example, when the rotary motion of the radius against the humerus unites with the hinge-motion of the ulna and humerus, or, as in the wrist, when the three convexities of the bones of the carpus correspond to the concavities of the surfaces yielded by the radius and the triangular ligament, the joint can be said to be agyreyated (Meyer). General Eemarks on the Development of the Joints.—-The differences between the methods of articulation already described are based upon the manner after which the bones are developed. It will be remembered that the bones of the sides and vertex of the brain-case, and some of the bones of the face, develop from fibrous tissue (p. 97); such bones are connected by intervals of unossified mem- brane of varying width, and in time they unite by sutures which are so adapted as to permit- of the increase in size of the brain, and the proper forma- tion of the chambers of the face, without impairing the strength of the skull. When the growth of these structures is complete, the sutures, as a rule, disappear. This variety of union is called by the older writers Syndesmosis, the bones being joined by fibrous tissue, which in this sense is functionally the same as liga- ment, except that the tissue is, continuous with the bed or plane of each bone, instead of being adjusted on the sides. In the event of a joint arising between two of a series of cartilage bones, there exists, as in the above variety, an unossified interval which is con- SIDERATIONS. 211 this intervening tissue, instead of remaining undif- erentiated, is developed either into cartilage or fibro- cartilage. Should the development be arrested at this stage, and the mediating tissue be cartilage, the variety of union known as Synchondrosis occurs, an example of which is seen between the sphenoid and the occipital bones. If the mediating tissue be fibro-cartilage, Symphysis occurs, as is seen in the intervertebral and interpubic joints. Should the ends of the bones develop layers of car- tilage, and the intervening fibro-cartilage be parted therefrom by synovial membrane, and its own synovial surfaces be separated from one another, the form of joint arises such as is seen in the claviculo sternal, the temporo-maxillary, and the carpo-ulnar joints. If the fibro-cartilage is rudimentary, and attached only to the capsular ligament, and the synovia-bearing surfaces are continuous with one another, the form of joint seen at the knee is recognized. If after the ends of the bones are furnished with cartilage, the fibro-cartilage is absorbed save a small band in the centre, the form of joint seen in the costo- vertebral and the ilio-femoral articulations arises. At least one of the crucial ligaments of the knee may be looked upon as the persistent central portion of the same primordial fibro-cartilaginous tissue which also remains on the sides of the joints in the former as interarticular disks. If the mediating cartilage and fibro-cartilage en- tirely disappear, the form of movable joint exempli- fied in the elbow or the shoulder is seen. The degree of possible influence exerted by muscle in effecting the evolution of the various forms of joints has as yet not been determined. It may be more than a coincidence that arrest of development at the stage of symphysis is seen in localities where comparatively slight motion occurs, as in the verte- bral column and pubis; while localities in which the true synovia-secreting joints are seen are moved freely by highly specialized and powerful muscles. Bernaj's' does not credit muscle with any primal in- fluence, since he found in the knee-joint that the synovial membrane developed, and the essentials of the joint surfaces appeared before the joint became movable. It is at a later period only in his judg- ment that the influence of irregular muscular action is at all felt. J. Cunningham,^ however, in endeavor- ■Morph. Jahrbuch, 1878, Heft 3, p. 403.