100 THE BONES. >oo^ooo The same differences may be noted in the various parts of a single bone. The differences in the rela- tions of the cancelli and the compact matter in this way furnish clews to the significance of delicate mouldings, curves, lines, ridges, or of the general pris- moidal or tubular shape of a bone; these are, indeed, so many accessories of structure, and aid the bone in developing to the best advantage its special phases'of elasticity, lightness, strength, etc. It would be going too far into the obscure subjects of teleology, the laws of heredity, or the question of primal adaptation of structure to a preconceived design, to pursue this subject further. But this much may with certainty be said, that the general properties of bones, and indirectly their shapes and special uses, are largely determined by traction, pressure, or other familiar expressions of force.' When a sequestrum forms in the cancellous struc- ture, the bone in the vicinity becomes more compact. The sequestrum itself is somewhat more compact toward the centre than toward the periphery. Peculiarities of the Living or Fresh Bone. —A bone when examined in its living condition is covered with a membrane called the perio&teum, which is continuous with the tendons of the muscles in- serted into the bone. In a strict sense muscles are inserted into the periosteum of the bone rather than in the bone itself. In the fresh condition the peri- osteum can with care be raised from the bone. It is thus seen as a thin fibrous membrane of a pearly- white color and firm consistence. In inflammation of the bone the periosteum becomes greatly thick- ened, and can be detached with ease. The perios- teum is not a simple fibrous membrane, as a super- ficial examination would indicate. While its outer surface is plainly fibrous, its inner surface where it lies in contact with the bone possesses bone-producing power. The importance of a knowledge of these facts in surgical practice cannot be over-estimated. The ease with which the removal of inflamed peri- osteum can be accomplished explains the presence of a blood-clot between the periosteum and the bone in the course of ostitis or periostitis. It also accounts for sub-periosteal abscess, and the rapidity with which I The trabecnlse differ in snch slight degrees in different localities that it has been customary to include them in a simple description of each hone. This plan will be pursued in this work. At the same time the student is advised to study the sawed section of bone, for in no other way can the nice points of resist- ance and pressure as expressed in the details of bony structure be appreciated. an abscess of this kind may develop. The special value of the periosteum in aiding and maintaining bone-growth being remembered, the presence of a clot of blood or a layer of pus will be seen to with- hold from the bone beneath its normal supply of blood, and the shaft of the bone may die for a dis- tance corresponding to the area of denudation. In this way necrosis of the shaft of bones is explained. A knowledge of the above conditions enables the surgeon to strip up the membrane from the ends of the bony fragments he wishes to excise without injury to it. It is evident that the detachment of the peri- osteum must bear some relation to the condition both of the membrane and of the bone itself. The peri- osteum is more readily detached in growing subjects than in the adult, in chronic inflammation than in acute, and to a greater degree in some bones than in others. The lower jaw, the clavicle, the bones of the forearm and arm would appear to present in the human sub- ject unusual facilities for denudation, with relatively slight impairment of the vitality of the membrane, if the success attending operation on these bones serves in any way as a standard for comparison. The greater part of the shafts of these bones has been removed, and new bone has formed in its place through the agency of the periosteum. The other bones pos- sess the property in a much less degree,—such as the bones of the lower extremity, and the flat and irreg- ular bones generally. This property appears to be almost entirely absent in the bones of the brain-case. Bone, while owing much of its genetic power to the periosteum, is not dependent thereon, but is indebted measurably, according to Dr. Alex. Ogston,' to the cartilage covering the articular surfaces. In the judgment of this observer articular cartilage is as valuable and necessary in forming and maintaining the structure and shape of bone as is the periosteum. He believes that there is a peculiar structure of the bone in this way produced which permits of its being readily distinguished from that of periosteal origin. "The former variety is marked out," he informs us, "by the main beams or trabecula3 of its mesh-work being placed at right angles to the bone surface, while periosteal bone is characterized either by its main trabeculfe being parallel to the bone surface or by there being no indication of any special direction ob- servable in them at all." Periosteum may be torn away from the bone to which it is attached by violent injury. In com- ' Journ. of Aiiat. and Phys., 1878, 503. Numerous illustrations.