OF THE FOOT. 241 LIGAMENTS THE JOINTS AND ^>OC'^OOo third to the fourth; and the external from the fourth to the fifth. The Inferior (plantar) Ligaments are stronger than the above-named, but resemble them in their general plan. The Interosseous Ligaments are placed between the opposed surfaces of the metatarsal bones near the proximal extremities. Thej are weaker than are the lio-aments of the tarsus of the same name. The Transverse Ligaments are names given to loosely fasciculated bands uniting the distal ends of the metatarsal bones. THE JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS BETWEEN THE META- TARSUS AND THE PHALANGES. These articulations furnish a convex proximal sur- face well advanced on the plantar region, and a con- cave distal surface. In the first joint this surface is as broad as high. The motion of flexion is impaired by the position of the sesamoid bones on the plantar aspect.—The proximal surfaces of the remaining joints are compressed laterally.—Each joint is inclosed by a synovial sac and capsule, which are weaker above than elsewhere, and which are greatly strengthened on the sides by cord-like lateral ligaments passing ob- liquely downward and forward. They are thick in- feriorly where they are supported by the tendons of the flexors of the toes. 31 THE INTER-PHALANGEAL JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS. The joint surfaces of these articulations are convex proximally, and concave distally, with the exception of the first inter-phalangeal, where the proximal surface is so far depressed m the centre as to become concave. The jomts are well protected on all sides by the synovial sacs and capsules, the latter being strengthened at the sides by the lateral ligaments. Beneath, each joint is supported by a fibrous pad or plate and the underlying tendons of the flexors of the toes. In necrosis of the phalanges, the inferior fibrous pads above mentioned will oftentimes retain the bones in connection with the living parts after all other bands have been destroyed. Remarks.— The great strength of the first toe enables the ballet-dancer to sustain upon the inter- phalangeal joint the entire weight of the body.— Owing to the disposition of the first metatarso-pha- langeal joint, flexion is here imperfectly performed.— This joint is frequently deformed by acquired deflec- tion of the first phalanx outward, and is often the seat of an inflammation communicated to it by a bursa situated above and to its inner side. The Nerves of the metatarso-phalangeal articula- tions are derived from the external plantar. Those of the inter-phalangeal joints are derived from the internal plantar.