THE BONES. 114 iXaO^Ooo tion of the cartilage, the fourth; behind the cricoid cartilage, the fifth and sixth. The atlas-nodule is always distinct in the adult; the remaining points are variable. In some subjects a uniform median keel- like ridge can be readily felt the entire length of the pharynx. The formation of pus behind the pharynx is some- times caused by diseased vertebrae; and in necrosis of the atlas and axis portions of these bones have been ejected into the pharynx (see Pharynx). In like manner, after fracture of the odontoid process, the detached fragment has been known to escape by perforation of the pharyngeal wall. On the sides of the neck the transverse processes can be distinctly felt beneath the skin in emaciated subjects. The distance between the transverse process of the atlas and the angle of the lower jaw is not greater than half an inch. In dissection the process is not exposed until the anterior tendinous margin of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle is raised from over it, the tough fibrous tissue is removed, and a deep-seated lymphatic gland which is lodged below the process is pressed aside. The process in reality belongs, clini- cally speaking, to the region about and behind the angle of the jav/. Its condition should be carefully eliminated in making a diagnosis of tumors of this region. H. J. Bigelow^ believes that cystic tumors of the neck almost always arise from the parts about this transverse process and the styloid process of the temporal bone. The styloid process extends down- ward and forward one-third of an inch between the angle of the jaw and the transverse process. Further down the neck the transverse processes can be felt by deep palpation. They serve as valuable guides in making incisions for reaching the track of the great vessels in ligation, and for the position of the oesoph- agus in oesophagotomy. Posteriorly the third, sixth, and seventh spines can alone be felt. The remaining spines are thickly cov- ered by the soft parts. The apex of the lung answers to the spine of tlie seventh vertebra. It is about this spine that a peculiar neuralgic pain often radiates in anaemic persons. Specimens are occasionally met with in the collec- tions where the atlas and the skull become anchylosed. After fracture in this region the reparative process is .active, so that union of the fragments takes place should the patient survive the immediate effects of narrowing of the vertebral canal. The deformations arising from malposition of the ' Bost. Med. and Surg. Jouni., vol. Ixxxvii. 279. vertebrae are to be carefully separated from those due to muscular contraction or wry neck. F. E. Lente' has reported the rare anomaly of a vertebral column possessing brse.^ but six cervical verte- The Ceevical Eib.—The anterior portion of the transverse process of the seventh vertebra bearing the anterior tubercle is sometimes imperfectly anchylosed to the body. When thus free it has received the name of the cervical rib, since it is homologous with a true rib. Its anterior extremity may be free or be joined to the first true rib. The presence of a cervi- cal rib may interfere witli the normal relations of the subclavian artery, diminish the circulation of the upper extremity, or induce pressure upon the bra- chial plexus. An exostosis growing from such a rib was detected by Holmes Coate^ on the left side in a female aged 26. The condition was thought to be congenital, at least it had existed since early child- hood. The growth was successfully removed by operation. The circulation of the limb remained unimpaired. The cervical rib has been the subject of special memoirs by Halbertsma,'' Luschka,^ Struth- ers,^ Gruber,'^ and Turner.^ THE DOESAL VEETEBE^. The dorsal vertebrae are the vertebra3 of the chest or thorax. Each bone is distinguished by the pre- sence on the side of the body of a depression for the head of its associated rib. The two upper dorsals resemble the type of the cervicals, the lower dorsals resemble the type of the lumbar vertebras. Eudi- raents of the true transverse and mammillary pro- cesses are seen on the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth. The lody^ figs. 5 and 6, Plate XIII., is narrower in front than behind. From the third to the eighth the bodies are convex in front and concave behind to 1 N. Y. Journ. of Medicine, 1850, 285. 2 For an account of the homologies of the atlas, axis, and those of the occipital bone, in connection with these bones, see Cleland, Nat. Hist. Rev. Ap. 1861, also W. Allen, Journ. Anat. and Pliys. xiv. 1879, 18. ° Med. Times and Gazette, Ap. 3d, 1861, 108. < Roy. Acad. Sci. Amsterdam, 1856, 238. 6 Denkschriften der m. n. Klasse der Kais. Acad, der Wissen- schaften, Berlin, xvi. 6 Ed. Montlily Med. Sci. xvii. 1853, 292. • Mem. Acad. Imper. St. Petersburg, xiii. 1869. » Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, iv. 1870, 130.