128 ONES. Fig. 1. The parietal bone seen from without. Fig. 2. The parietal bone seen from within. process; two for the posterior portion of the body, or the basi-sphenoid ; one for the anterior portion of the body, or the pre-sphenoid (this is occasionally absent); one for each of the lesser wings (these extend into and occupy the cartilage of the pre-sphenoid in the event of no separate centre arising therein); one for each of the internal pterygoid plates; one for each of the sphenoidal turbinate (three separate ossicles may be detected here); and one for each of the sphenoidal tongues. The order in which these several centres appear is as follows: The centre for the greater wings, which appears at about the second month; the centres for the basi-sphenoid, nearly the same time; the centre for the pre-sphenoid, at about the ninth week, includ- ing those for the lesser wings; the centres for the internal pterygoid plates and the sphenoidal tongues, at the fourth month; the centres for the sphenoidal turbinates, at about puberty. At birth the sphenoid bone is composed of three pieces—the two greater Avings with the internal pterygoid plates, and the two lesser wings with the body. The greater wings join the body at the end of the first year. The sutural line of union between the pre-sphenoid and basi-sphenoid is seen as late as the third or fourth year; the turbinates join the pre- sphenoid, and the basi-sphenoid joins the occipital at puberty. Eemaeks.—The greater wing of the sphenoid bone is often the seat of inflammation in strumous and syphilitic subjects. In most specimens of the sphe- noid bone of the adult this portion is seen conspicu- ously marked with vascular foramina. The region of the pituitary fossa is occasionally the point of origin of diseased action—either within the body of the bone or within the pituitary body—which may extend laterally and involve the cavernous sinuses,* and the internal carotid arteries. Instances have been re- corded of caries of the body eroding one of the last- named vessels and causing fatal hemorrhage. ' W. Moxou. Tr. Clin. Soc. Lond., v. 45. Kobert' mentions an instance of fracture of the body of the sphenoid bone at the sella turcica, the dura mater in contact with it being torn. The crevice thus formed had communicated directly with the roof of the pharynx during life, and the sub-arachnoid fluid had trickled through the opening into the nose, creat- ing a watery discharge. For additional remarks see Base of Skull. THE PARIETAL BONE. The parietal bone (Plate XVIII.) is of a quadri- lateral figure, and is situated on the side of the cranial vault between the fellow of the opposite side, the squa- mous and the mastoid portions of the temporal and the great wing of the sphenoid bone below, the frontal bone in front, and the occipital bone behind. The anterior superior angle is a right angle. It is developed in infancy to aid in closing the great fonta- nelle. The postero-superior angle is an obtuse angle, and assists in closing the postero-superior fontanelle. The antero-inferior angle is in the isolated bone the most produced of any. It forms a narrowed tongue of bone fitting in the space between the frontal and ■temporal bones, and articulates with the sphenoid bone. postern-inferior angle is broader and more truncated than the others. It joins the mastoid por- tion of the temporal bone. The parietal bone is composed of one or more layers of spongy tissue, placed between two plates of compact tissue, of which the outer is the most variable. The bone presents for examination two surfaces and four borders and angles The bone is marked externally by a conspicuous rounded elevation, termed the parietal eminence—which corresponds to the centre of ossifi- cation. At the lower part of the external surface is seen a semicircular canal, limiting the temporal fossa superiorly. The bone is concave, and is deeply grooved by the great meningeal artery, which is directed from below upward and before backward from the antero- inferior angle. Near the upper margin of the bone ' Gazette des Hupiteaiix, 1840, 205. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVIII. For the words " with frontal bone" on left hand border read " with occipital bone."