THE CERVICAL VERTEBE^. 111 — ^xOO^O-O-O pedicle, and between tlie lateral border of the body and the superior articular process, is the svq^erior notch. Lying below the pedicle, and between the outer side of the body and the inferior articular pro- cess, is the inferior notch. The articular processes are inclined parallel to one another downward and backward. The superior articular process looks upward and backward; the inferior looks downward and forward. The portion of bone intervening betweea the articular processes is massive and columniform. The transverse pjvocess arises by two roots—a pos- terior or larger arising from the pedicle, and an ante- rior or smaller arising from the body. The process looks directly downward, and is pierced at its base by the vertebral foramen for the transmission of the vertebral artery. The process is grooved above for the anterior branches of the cervical plexus (fig. 1, Plate XV.), and presents an anterior and posterior tubercle; the Scalenus Anticus muscle is attached to the former, and the Levator Anguli Scapulae muscle to the latter. The anterior tubercle, from its serving as a guide for tying the carotid artery, is called by Lisfranc the carotid tubercle. , The first (atlas), the second (axis), and the seventh cervical vertebrte (vertebra prominens), having many peculiar features, demand separate descriptions. THE ATLAS. The atlas or first cervical vertebra (fig. 2, Plate XIII.) is without body or spinous process. It is further characterized by the greater size of the lateral masses, by the conspicuous transverse processes, by the intervertebral grooves being placed behind the superior articular surface, as well as by many negative features. In place of the body, a short arch is seen which is known as the anterior surface or arch. This extends between the lateral masses in front, while join- ing them behind is \\\e]'3irgev posterior surf ace or arch. The anterior arch arises from the entire anterior borders of the lateral masses. It is compressed from behind forward, and is furnished in front by a promi- nence kuown as the anterior tubercle for the attach- ment of the Longns Colli muscle. Behind it is seen a large facet for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis. The p)Osterior arch arises from the middle of the posterior border of the lateral mass, where it is com- pressed from above downward, and grooved (sinus atlantis or intervertebral groove) for the vertebral artery. The hinder portion is more robust, and yields a minute tubercle for origin of the Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor muscle. The transverse process is directed slightly down- ward and outward, and presents a broad, scarcely bifid extremity. Its anterior root arises from the upper border of the lateral mass ; that portion behind the foramen arises from the middle of the lateral mass, and merges thence with the origin of the pos- terior arch. The itnder surface of the process is roughened. The transverse process, as in the other vertebrae, excepting the seventh, transniits the verte- bral artery. Each lateral mass presents above and below an articular surface, and the two elements defining the vertebral foramen are more completely fused beyond the foramen than in the other vertebra;. The superior articular process is of an oblong shape, and is concave for articulation with the occipital con- dyle. Its anterior and lateral edges are thin, and nearly on a level with the anterior arch. The poste- rior border is thickened, and forms a projection above the groove for the vertebral artery and first cervical or suboccipital nerve. The loiuer articular process is more rounded than the upper. It is scarcely at all concave, and is di- rected obliquely upward and inward, and often slightly projects at the sides and in front. The inner border of the lateral mass is roughened, and lies within the vertebral canal. It presents a tubercle, lying directly above the inner border of the inferior articular surface, for attachment of the transverse ligament. The vertebral canal is relatively larger than in other vertebras, and is remarkable for its contraction between the lateral masses for the accommodation of the odontoid process and the crucial and the check ligaments (fig. 2, Plate XXXVI.). Tlie posterior half of the canal defined between the laminas is wider than deep, and receives the spinal cord and vertebral arteries and veins (fig. 3, Plate XXXVL). Rp:marks.—The simis atlantis may be converted by an osseous bar into a foramen.—A spicule of bone may spring from the posterior arch at the upper surface of the point of junction of the lamina and the pedicle, and pass over the position of the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve to the back part of the superior articular surface. A second spicule may pass from the upper surface of the transverse process to the outer edge of the superior articular surface.