THE JOINTS 238 LIGAMENTS. AND THE c-CO^OOo tlie scaphoid bone and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. This extensive and important surface is inclosed by a common synovial membrane. The joint between the calcaneum and the cuboid bone. The joint between the scaphoid bone and the three cuneiforms is concave proximally and convex dis- tally. The lateral facets between the cuneiform bones and the cuboid are sufficiently indicated in the descrip- tion of these bones. The chief ligaments of the tarsus are— The External Astragalo-Calcaneal. The Internal Astragalo-Calcaneal. The Interosseous. The Superior Calcaneo-Cuboid. The Internal Calcaneo-Cuboid. The Inferior Calcaneo-Cuboid. The Superior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. The Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid. The Astragalo-Scaphoid. The Scaphoido-Cuneiform. The Scaphoido-Cuboid. The External Astragalo-Calcaneal Ligament. — This is a small fasciculus attached above to the astra- galus, and below is inserted into the calcaneum along- side of the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with which it is often in part confounded. The Laternal Astragalo-Calcaneal Lisjament is short, slender, and membranous, and is attached above to the astragalus at the border of the groove for the Flexor Longus Pollicis, and below to the calcaneum. The Interosseous Ligament (middle astragalo-calca- neal).—This powerful structure occupies the canal between the astragalus and the calcaneum. It is nar- row and short niedianly, but widens as it approaches the lateral aspect of the foot, where it is superficial. As displayed within the sinus tarsi, the ligament is divided into two portions hy a wide interval. The posterior portion (posterior interosseous) is a thin but stout fascicle that serves to strengthen the posterior of the two astragalo calcaneal joints. The anterior portion (anterior interosseous) is coarser and stouter than the preceding, and unites the superior portion of the anterior process of the calcaneum to a roughened surface on the neck of the astragalus. The Superior Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament is a flat band extending from the upper and outer portion of the anterior border of the calcaneum to the corre- sponding part of the cuboid bone. It is entirely dorsal, and lies to the outer side of the Superior Cal- caneo-Scaphoid ligament. The Internal Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament (interosse- ous) is a flat band of great strength attached proximally to the calcaneum, at the sinus tarsi directly within the anterior portion of the interosseous ligament. Distally it is attached to the cuboid bone at the interval between the proximal and the median surfaces. As a rule it is united at its calcaneal attach nient with the Interosseous ligament, the two bands forming a V-shaped figure. The Inferior Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament is the stoutest and largest ligament of the foot. It is com- posed of two separate fasciculi or bundles of fibres, which may be known as the greater and the lesser ligament. The greater ligament, thicker medianly than laterally, is attached proximally to the entire length of the under surface of the calcaneum in ad- vance of the tubercles. It extends forward in a straight line, and is attached distally to the under surface of the cuboid bone at the tubercle as far as the groove for the tendon of the Peroneus Longus muscle. The ligament strengthens the sheath of the last-named muscle, and sends prolongations to the bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones.—The lesser ligament is attached distally to the anterior tubercle of the calcaneum, passes obliquely forward and inward, and is concealed in part by the greater ligament, to be attached to the cuboid bone at the proximo-median angle. The Superior Calcaneo Scaphoid Ligament (external calcaneo-scaphoid, interosseous) extends from the anterior portion of the calcaneum at the place of origin of the internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament. It is a stout, flat, well-defined band — its superior border lying on the dorsal, and its inferior on the plantar surface—and extends obliquely forward and inward, to be attached to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. Inferiorly it is in contact with the small cartilaginous surface at the medio-plantar angle of the cuboid bone. The Inferior Calcaneo-Scaphoid Ligament extends as a broad, somewhat radiated structure from the median surface of the calcaneum at the interval between the anterior tubercle and the sustentaculum tali, as well as the median borders of the facet of articulation with the astragalus. It passes forward and inward to be attached to the under surface of the scaphoid bone. Its fibres are continuous proximally with those of the deltoid ligament, and distally in part with the cuboidal attachment of the lesser calcaneo- cuboidal ligament. At its upper portion it is thicker than elsewhere, and depressed for the accommodation of the tendon of the Tibialis Posticus muscle which strengthens the ligament, and indirectly supports the