196 THE BONES. ^OO^OOo thereto, should be constantly borne in mind by the surgeon. It is asserted by Knox that an operation of Liston's for excision of this portion of the bone re- sulted in death from hemorrhage. Examples are on record of death from pyarthrosis following the same operation, as well as from the removal of tumors involvinsj the head of the fibula. In talipes varus the fibula may touch the calca- neum and effect a joint therewith. In atrophy of the peroneal muscles, notably that of the Peroneus Longus, the eminence of the external malleolus becomes un- duly prominent.—Osteophytes are specially liable to form at the median margin of the shaft above the distal articular surface. The mechanism of the deformity of fracture of both malleoli is, according to Dr. Gordon Buck,^ as follows : When both malleoli are fractured, the tibia tends to slide forward so that only the posterior half of the articular surface rests upon the articular surface of the astragalus. The dorsum of the foot is hereby shortened and the heel projects backward. The lower part of the leg presents a remarkable curve with its convexity forward. The same authority^ describes a specimen of necrosis of the tibia, in a child twelve years of age, in which a sequestrum extended through the distal end of the tibia into the ankle-joint, which was anchylosed. The specimen was mainly interest- ing from the circumstance that the process of necrosis was not limited to the compact portion of the bone, but had fairly extended into the spongy portion. THE PATELLA. The patella (figs. 6, 7, Plate XXXIV.) or knee-cap is a sesamoid bone lodged in the tendon of the Quad- riceps Extensor Cruris muscle. It is subcutaneous, and can be easily distinguished in the undissected subject. It is movable when the leg is extended, but fixed against the trochlea and external condyle of the femur when the leg is flexed. It is broader than long, sub-triangular in form with its thickened rugose N. Y. Med. Joarn., iii., 1866, 41. 2 Ibid., 44. base directed proximally to receive the tendon of the Quadriceps. The apex is in connection with the ligainentum patellee. The patella presents for examination an anterior and a posterior surface, and a median and a lateral border. The anterior surface is faintly convex in all directions, and is marked with linear strias and grooves, as well as with a few nutritious foramina, ^ha 2Msterior surface is concave from above downward, and concavo- convex from side to side. It is covered with carti- lage for articulation with the femur. A ridge-like eminence extends a little to the median side of the middle line downward and inward. The lateral facet is concave, and larger than the median, which is ob- scurely convex. The borders are slightly emargi- nated superiorly, but convex inferiorly. The apex of the bone projects downward to a distance equalling nearly one-fourth the length of the articular surface. The base of the patella is broader behind than in front. The lateral margin is thin and subtruncate; the median is evenly rounded. Structure.—The patella, when sawn open from side to side, shows an evenly textured surface. The cancelli are small, save at the apex, where they are coarse and uneven. Development.-—The patella arises by a single cen- tre of ossification, which appears at the third month. Eemarks.—The most important fact to be remem- bered in connection with the patella is its disposition to transverse fracture. This occurs either from mus- cular violence, or from falls upon the flexed knee when the patella is fixed against the patellar groove of the femur and the external condyle. The Quadriceps muscle, by drawing the xipper fragment away from the lower, creates a deep trans- verse sulcus. In place of a depression an elevation of the interosseous space may occur, an effect attrib- uted by Jonathan Hutchinson' to the outward pres- ' Med. Chir. Trans., lii. 340. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXIV. Fii;. \. The tibia, seen frnm in fj-cnt. Fig. 2. Ttie tibia, seen from tlie lateral side. Fig. 3. Tlie tibia, seen from behind. Fig. 4. The fibula, seen from t\\i'. median side. Fig. 5. The fibula, seen from the lateral side. Fig. 6. The patella, seen from in front. Fig. 7. The patella, seen from behind.