108 THE BONES. ooolgooc^ disks, the articular processes, etc., are all moulded to one another, as a series of eflects, by the kinds of pressure and traction to which they have been and are subjected. To such an extent, indeed, is this the case that the curvatures remain after the spine has been detached from its surroundings. llie antero-posterior curvatures.—The main curva- tures are antero-posterior, and are three in number —the cervical.^ the dorsal, and the luonhar. The first presents a convexity forward ; the second, backward ; and the third, forward. The figure of the spine is thus sinuous. Humphry^ has accurately defined the curves of the spine to be as follows: The first or cervical curve be- gins at the top of the odontoid process, and terminates at the middle of the second dorsal vertebra. It has its convexity in front, and forms 18° of a circle whose radius measures 6f inches; the most prominent point anteriorly is the forepart of the body of the fourth cervical vertebra.—The second or thoracic curve be- gins at the middle of the second, and terminates at the middle of the last dorsal vertebra. It has its concavity forwards, and forms 42° of a circle, whose radius measures 12f inches; the most prominent point posteriorly is the hinder edge of the body of the seventh or eighth vertebra.—The third or lum- bar curve, beginning at the middle of the last dorsal, terminates at the lower and anterior edge of the last lumbar vertebra. It is.-convex anteiiorly, and forms 80° of a circle, whose radius is 5| inches.—The fourth or pelvic curve, sharper than either of the others, begins at the upper edge of the sacrum, and termi- nates at the top of the coccyx. It. forms 125° of a circle, whose radius is 2| inches. The degree of cur- vature is not uniform, but is greatest a little below the middle. The relation of iveirjht to curvatures. — A direct line from the superincumbent weight at the head passes through the odontoid process and points of conduence of spinal curves,' and falls a little in front of the promontory of the sacrum. This line passes through the points at -which the vertebral curves run into and support each other. Lying in advance of tlie bodies of the fifth to the ninth dorsal vertebras inclusive, it leaves a larger portion of the dorsal curve behind the line of gravitation than is the case in the cervical and lumbar regions. In the stooping position the line falls further in front of the one above indicated. The curves are most pronounced in persons who ' The Ilunuin Skeleton, 147. have the greatest degree of normal exercise of the body, as in savages, and in those whose occupations accustom them to carry weights on the head. On the other hand, they are defective in persons of a sedentary habit and in bed-ridden invalids. The curves are liable to change Avhen the position of the weight is shifted. In forced stooping the lum- bar curve is obliterated and actually slightly reversed. In the sitting position the hollow of the spine at the lumbar region disappears. Lateral curvatures.—The existence of normal lateral curvatures in the spine has been a subject of some difference of opinion among anatomists. Dods, in 182-1, appears to have been the first clinical writer acciTrately to define the condition. Quain, Humphry, and Ward among systematic writers describe a slight degree of lateral curvature as observable in most cases in the dorsal region. Its convexity is directed to the right—a result due presumably to the greater use made of the right than of the left arm. According to Beclard, a cnrvature is exhibited to the opposite side in left-handed persons. This statement is dis- puted by Adams,^ who doubts the existence of lateral curvature as a physiological condition. That such a curvature, however it maybe classified, is dependent upon muscular action has been generally maintained by observers, who are inclined to accept the kind of explanation presented by Quain as appli- cable to all examples. Lateral curvatui'e is never seen, according to Sayre,^ in vigorous subjects who are habituated to carrying Aveights on the head; since both right and left groups of the muscles of the spine are here equally exerted. If a lateral curvature is developed in the dorsal region, which is commonly the case, a secondary compensatory curve in the opposite direction is developed in the loin. Lateral curvature may also follow upon the insuf- ficient support given the entire trunk by inequality in the lengths of the lower limbs. In cases where one limb is much shorter than the other, as in fracture of one of the bones of the lower extremity followed by much shortening (or in paralysis or insufficient de- velopment), the side of the pelvis answering to the shortened limb falls, and a compensatory lateral deviation of the spine from the normal line always ensues. Lateral curvature tcilh rotation. — Ilumphry^ no- ticed, as early as 1850, that in lateral curvature the motion is not simply of a lateral character, nor ^ See p. 109. ^ Spinal Disease and Curvature, 92. 3 L. c, 171.