IDENTIFICATION ooojgooc— OF BONES, 103 angle of 30'^ with the horizon nearly. According to Dwight(loc. cit.) the only objection to this rule is the exceptional fact that some subjects possess more than the normal number of vertebrse. The point of the coccyx is usuallj^ a trifle above the lower border of the symphysis pubis. In the female the centre of the body is at the sym- physis pubis; though in women above the average height the centre is slightly above this point, and in those below the average slightly below it. In the male the centre is in average examples a little below the symphysis, but it is subject to some variations, as in the female. In readjusting the dry or macerated bones of the limbs with the view of ascertaining the height of the individual, one-quarter of an inch must be allowed for the cartilages of the knee; one-eighth of an inch for the cartilages of encrustment of the astragalus and calcaneum; one-half of an inch for the remaining portions of the foot; and one-eighth of an inch for the joint between the occipital condyles and the atlas. For further information on the above and allied topics the reader is referred to Dr. Dwight's valuable essay, previously quoted, from which the writer has freely copied and epitomized. With reference to the question w^iether the bones are diseased, the same difficulties obtain as in study- ing the healthy bones. The lines of former fracture may be confounded with variation of the normal structure. The normal details of healthy nutrition may so resemble the products of inflammatory pro- cesses as not to be with certainty distinguished; while defects of development may be confounded with post- natal atrophic changes. Nevertheless careful comparisons will greatly assist in determining these and other distinctions. In the specimen suspected of having sustained fracture the part should be carefull}^ macerated, since some in- stances of alleged atrophic or diseased change (as for example in the neck of the femur) have been shown by this means to be old ununited fracture. Lines of exos- tosis or inflammatory outgrowth can be distinguished from the lines of union of fracture by making a section of the bone. If at any time the bone has been fractured the evidence of the old lesion will be seen in the inte- rior as well as upon the surface; while, if it has never been so injured, the evidences of change are apt to be superficial, and even if deeply seated show increased thickness and density of the bone-tissue. Exposed surfaces of healthy adult bone, more par- ticularly those of the long bones, exhibit innumerable minute linear depressions which serve to maintain the periosteum in position. These are sometimes sup- planted in bones of muscular individuals by sparsely distributed elliptical nodules (see p. 101). In chronic peripheral inflammation these linear depressions are exaggerated in depth, and the spaces between them are apt to form minute, irregular eminences. In ex- treme examples of the results of formative inflamma-' tory change such eminences may be confounded with the hyperostosed condition following chronic peri- ostitis, lu bones showing the least sign of atro- phic change the condition opposite to the above is seen to exist. The linear depressions disappear, and the bone is everywhere smooth. Occurring at incon- stant and variable intervals are minute openings which can be distinguished from the orifices of vascu- lar canals by their being neither oblique nor erater- shaped, but having sharp-cut edges on the level of the bone surfaces as though punched out with a cutting instrument. A knowledge of the development of bone is essential to a correct understanding of some morbid processes. Thus the manner in which a bone will be affected bv disease is oftentimes the same as that in which it was developed. The relations between the epiphysis and the shaft of along bone will have to be remembered by the surgeon. The epiphysis may separate spontane- ously in some diseases and injuries. In fracture of the neck of the femur, that portion of the neck attached to the epiphysis may become absorbed, thus restoring to the epiphysis its original contour. In chronic arthritis, a series of characteristic appearances are restricted to a line near to or lying within the epiphysis. A seques- trum may be commonly restricted to a shaft, or, rarely, to an epiphysis.^ Disease of an epiphysis can affect the adjacent shaft as on the other hand disease of a shaft can affect the adjacent epiphysis. Many diseases of the joints have their origin in contiguous epiphyses. The restriction of morbid processes to portions of bone which are distinct from the point of view of development, is well illustrated in the superior max- illa {q. v)? In the composition of the complex association of bones, such as those of the skull or sacrum, certain surfaces are found remaining free from contact with one another. These ordinarily afford transit to im- portant nerves and vessels. In the instance of the 1 Brodie, Surg. Lectures, 222, and Adams, Trans. Path. Soc. Lond., iii. 165, and Birnett, Ibid. vi. 288. Cat. to Mus. Guy's Hosp. No. 1484, 49. 2 See also a paper by the author on Localization of Diseased Ac- tion in the Osseous System, Am. Journ. Med. Sci., July, 1870, 404.