THE SKULL. OOO^OOO U7 and at the postero-inferior angles of each of the parietal bones and the adjacent parts. They are small, unim- portant, and disappear at birth. The hinder angle of the posterior lateral fontanelle is continuous with the interval between the divisions of the ascending por- tion of the occipital bone. Hyrtl records four instances in the adalt skull of the persistence of a fissure an- swering in position to this angle. It is a striking fact that hernia of the brain never occurs through the fontauelles. At birth the sutures of the vertex are so imper- fectly formed that the bones can be made to slide slightly upon one another under moderate compres- sion without injury to themselves or to the brain be- neath. Such compression is inevitable during the delivery of the child, and is liable to take place to a greater or less extent during infancy. Post-mortem changes go on more rapidly in the brain when the fontanelles remain open than after they are closed. This fact is of medico-legal significance.^ The protec- tion secured to the sutures of the side of the skull appears to favor their early obliteration. Thus the coronal suture may be no longer traceable in the tem- poral fossa while yet distinct on the vertex. The sutures holding the temporal bone in position seem to disappear later than other cranial sutures, probabl}^ owing to the less pronounced organic union of this bone with, the remaining cranial bones. The time at which the sutures disappear varies with the different bones, with race peculiarities, and, as has been noted, with the rate of activities of the general ossific development. This rate is less active in cold than in warm climates. Other things remaining the same, the sutures disappear in the order of the com- pletion of the development of adjacent parts. At fifty- five or sixty years, the sutures have become entirely obliterated. The sutures may separate under the distending force engendered by brain decomposition.^ Universal union of the cranial sutures constitutes synostosis. Should one or more of the sutures close while the skull is yet growing, deformation occurs. This is probably a frequent cause of variation in the shape of the vertex. The sagittal suture prema- turely disappearing restrains the lateral expansion of the vertex, while forcing out the forehead and occi- put. A skull thus deformed is known as the scaphoid or boat-like skull. Premature sutural union is not of necessity evi- dence of the arrest of the development of the brain. ' Casper, 1. 40, Sy;l. Soc. edition. ' Casper, 1. c. i. 40. Disappearance of the suture may result from exces- sive precocity of the osseous system, without any co- relation existing between the growth of the brain and that of the skull. A distinct class of symptoms arises when the brain continues its growth within an un- yielding brain-case, which is recognized by clinical writers. The effect of a prematurely united suture upon the general nutrition of the bones adjacent to it is decided. The edges entering into the sutural line are thickened, while the substance of the bone a little distance from the line is thinned, and, in rare instances, is even per- forated (see Parietal and Occipital Bones). The deformities of hydrocephalus are largely de- termined by the condition of the sutures at the time of the occurrence of the disease. Fixation at the line of the sagittal suture causes bulging at the forehead and the occiput. Fixation at both the lambdoidal and the sagittal sutures causes vertical bulging at the line of the coronal suture, and enormous increase of the ascending portion of the frontal bone. Should the intra-cranial pressure announce itself prior to the closure of any of the sutures of the vertex, the several bones composing it become widely separated, and the fontanelles enormously increased in size.^ The bones of the vertex, arising as they do from membranous expansions, present a group of variations distinct from those that arise from cartilage. Prof. Turner^ endeavors to account for this by stating that the areas of the different bones are less precisely de- fined, and that the process of ossification is more liable to disturbance in the former than in the latter. The modifications in arrangement are especially apt to occur along the lines of apposition of adjacent osseous areas, as, for example, along the sutural lines, or along the margins of the subdivisions of a bone proceeding from distinct centres. The Wormian Bones (ossa triquetra). — The Wor- mian bones are variable in shape, number, and position. They are seen, in order of frequency, be- tween the occipital and the parietal bones, at the junction of bones at the anterior third of the temporal fossa (pterion), and at the regions of the fontanelles. They are rare in the face, and are here almost con- fined to the roof and median surfaces of the orbit. They are unknown in the cranio-basic axis. It will thus be seen that the Wormian bones answer to the position of the membranous expansions, as opposed to ' P.udolphi, Berlin. Abhandl. (Phys.), 1824, 121, figs. ; also J. von d. Hoeven, Acad. Caes. Leap. Nova Acta, xxix. 1862, figs. 2 Edinburgh Royal Soc. Proc, v., 1866, 444.