122 THE BONES. foramen in the median line, wbicli may be assumed to answer to defective nutritive processes at the line between the first upper pair of centres of ossification of the ascending portion.—The entire angle may be defective, and may permit a hernia of the cerebrum to occur through the opening. It is interesting to note that in a case of this kind, recorded by Detmold,^ a median depression existed in the hernial mass; this answered in position to the falx cerebri, which thus aided in modifying the shape and limiting the degree of the projection of the hernia. The surface occupied by the jugular tubercle is the seat occasionally of a peculiar hypertrophy, which, occupying as it does the position of the paramastoid process in the lower animals, may receive this desig- nation. The ■paramastoid process will sometimes ap- pear in aged persons, where, from the fact that it is occupied by a few coarse cancelli, and that it thus re- sembles lung structure, it has received the name of the pneuviatio process. The presence of the paramas- toid process may induce one of the varieties of wry neck,^ especially when it is attached to the transverse process of the atlas. That the roof of the pharynx, which in the living subject answers in position to the basilar process, can be reached by passing a straight instrument through the nose, is a clinical test easy of demonstration. Winslow refers to a charlatan's trick of introducing a long nail through the nasal chamber as far as the basilar process, and attaching to the outer end of the nail a heavy weight. The process in this trial of strength acts as a point of resistance to the extremity of the lever, and is enabled from the direction of the pressure to bear the weight.—The basilar process may be easily pierced from beneath by a missile or other foreign body introduced through the nose or mouth. Of this injury the following case is a striking example : A little girl fell down while holding a wooden crochet-needle in her mouth. The needle transfixed the uvula, passed through the basilar pro- cess directly in front of the foramen magnum, and made a punctured wound of the medulla oblongata. Death ensued in three days.^—Caries of the basilar process has been diagnosed by Paget* in a male twenty-seven years old. An abscess formed at the , nape of the neck, through the cavity of which a sequestrum from about the foramen magnum was • N. Y. Journ. of Medicine, 1856, xvi. 77. 2 C. F. W. Uhde, Archiv fiir Klinische Chirurgie, 1867, 24, Tab. 1, Literature. » P. I. Kendriuk, Med. Times and Gazette, 1867, 585. ' Trans. Clin. Soc. London, iii. 283. removed. Through pressure upon the hypoglossfol nerve the tongue was atrophied and deflected. The patient recovered.—Dupuytren^ describes a case in which a hydatid cyst was lodged within the hypo- glossal canal, causing symptoms similar to those of tlie previous case.—-The foramen magnum may be either compressed laterally or greatly widened. There is preserved in the Musee Dupuytren a skull of an infant in which the foramen magnum is sufficiently large to have permitted a hernia cerebelli to appear upon the neck—a fact of unusual interest, since the tumor was mistaken for a cystic growth, and opened, with a fatal result.—In rachitis, the lateral portions of the occipital bone become flattened, forming a condi- tion termed by Elsaesser the soft occiput.—Solborg^ found in nine cases of epilepsy a constriction of the spinal canal, from hypertrophy of the jugular process of the occipital bone and of the posterior necks of the atlas and axis, with secondary atrophj^ of the medulla oblongata. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal bone (rigs. 4, 5, 6, Plate XVI., also fig. 4, Plate XXII.) is situated at the side and base of the cranium, having the lateral portion of the occipital bone behind, the great wing of the sphenoid in front, the axis of the cranium within, and the temporal fossa, for the most part, without. Beneath is an ir- regular surface marked by the mastoid, styloid, and vaginal processes, and the glenoid fossa. The bone, as generally described, presents for ex- amination the squamous, the petrous, and the mastoid portions, but the significance of its several divisions cannot be in this way explained. It is better to divide the bone into parts that answer to the developmental centres. Tliese are four in number, viz., the squamous, the petrous, the tympanic, and the styloid portions. To these may be added a fifth, the mastoid portion, for although the latter is not a true division of the bone (composed, as it is, of elements obtained from the squamous and the petrouj portions), it is expe- dient to retain the term. The sqtiamous portion (squama) is the most con- spicuous of these divisions when the bone is viewed in position from without. Externally the squamous porlion is composed of the squama, or ascending part, the zygomatic or horizontal part, and the glenoid fossa. The squama forms the greater part of the temporal fossa. It is ' Leijons Orales, i. 493. 2 Rosenthal, Diseases of the Nervous System, ii. 63.