203 THE BONES OF THE FOOT. OOO^OOO surfaces on a single line, save the fifth alone, which is advanced proximally beyond that of the others. Among the remaining parts defined by the union of the bones, but absent or not well seen in the iso- lated bones, may be mentioned the following:— The canal that is formed between the astragalus and the calcaneum. The oblique groove extending across the plantar surface from the lateral border of the cuboid bone, forward and inward; this is the peroneal (plantar) groove for the accommodation of the tendon of the Peroneus Longus muscle. An eminence at the dorsal surfaces of the first and second cuneiform bones that has received the name of the instep. The portion of the calcaneum projecting poste- riorly to the astragalus and forming the " heel." Du- chenne^ describes the heel as the "arri^re pied," as opposed to the foot in advance of the ankle, which he calls the " avant pied." Interosseous spaces are formed between the meta- tarsal bones and the phalanges. Of these the space between the bones of the first and the second of the series is the widest. The median border of the plantar surface is robust distally, and ends abruptly with the scaphoid proxi- mally. The lateral border of the same surface is weak distally, but becomes increasingly robust proxi- mally, to end in the enormous median plantar tubercle of the calcaneum. The bones of the foot are arransred in two lonai- tudinally disposed series—a median and a lateral. The median series is composed of the phalanges of the first, the second, and the third toes, and of the meta- tarsal and tarsal elements with which these articulate. The lateral series is composed of the fourth and fifth toes and of their respective metatarsal and tarsal bones. Seen in a tabular form the arrangement is easily fol- lowed. A Table of the Bones of the Foot arranged in Longitudinal Series. 1st phalanx I 2d phalanx I 1st metatarsal I 1st cuneiform 11. 1st phalanx I 2d phalanx I 3d phalanx I 2d metatarsal III. 1st phalanx I 2d phalanx I 3d phalanx 1 3d metatarsal I 3d cuneiform IV. 1st phalanx I 2d phalanx I 3d phalanx 4th metatarsal V. 1st phalanx I 2d phalanx I 3d phalanx I 5th metatarsal Scaphoid I Astragalus When the weight of the body rests upon the flexed lower extremity, and the heel is elevated, the tibia is inclined forward upon the widest portion of the superior articular surface of the astragalus; the greater part of the weight is thus transmitted through the last named bone to the median series of the foot as far as the rnetatarso-phalangeal joints, beneath which in the living subject is the callous pad, the ball of the toes. Along this line the articular sur- faces of the bones are composed of proximal convexi- ties resting within distal concavities—in a word, of a series of segments of balls resting within partial sockets. The weight is in part sustained by the plantar ligaments.—The lateral series in this position has but slight work to do, viz., to act as a crutch to the m.edian.—When the weight of the body is borne by the extended lower extremity, the foot rests ' Physiologie des Mouvements. firmly on the ground, and the weight is in part trans- mitted from the astragalus to the calcaneum, and thence to the cuboid bone and the bones of the fourth and the fifth toes. The median series receives, how- ever, much of the weight of the body by means of the head of the astragalus resting in this position in the concavity of the scaphoid bone, and on the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid hgament. The impress of the foot is greater on the lateral than on the median side.^ According to F. O. Ward,^ the attitude fii'st described is employed to distribute the force of sudden con- cussion, as from a jump; the second posture is as- sumed when the foot is required to sustain some heavy continuous pressure, that of the trunk for instance, augmented, as it often is, by the addition of a ponderous burden. ' Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, xc. 48. 2 Outlines of Osteology, 367.