223 LIGAMENTS OF THE WRIST. OOO^OOo The Ligaments of the Rahius and the Ulna. The movements of pronation and supination take place between the radius and the hand as one factor, and the humerus and the ulna as the other. The joints interested in the movements are— The IIumero-Radial. The Superior Eadio-Ulnar. The Inferior Eadio-Ulnar. The IIumero-Radial Joint (figs. 1 and 3, Plate XXXIX.) is a part of the elbow-joint, and has been already described. The Superior Radio-Ulnar Joint exists between the convex circumferential vertical border of the head of the radius and the concave lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna. The elbow-joint in great part defines it. It is strengthened by the orbicular and the oblique ligaments. The Oblique Ligament is a stout band passing obliquely downward and outward from the region of the base of the coronoid process (tubercle) of the ulna to the radius a little distance below the tuberosity. It acts as a check to supination, the interosseous membrane. The membrane stretching across the space between the radius and the ulna is called the interosseous membrane. It is attached by roughened borders, which are specially well marked at the upper portion. Aponeurotic in structure, the membrane is composed of thin fibres directed obliquely downward and in- ward, while its posterior surface is strengthened by fibres passing in the opposite direction. It imperfectly occupies the interosseous space, since it begins about au inch below the tubercle of the radius, and termi- nates a short distance above the wrist-joint. It is perforated at several points for the passage of small bloodvessels, and toward the lower border by a larger opening for the posterior interosseous artery. The interosseous membrane assists the obliqiie ligament in checking supination. It also acts as an intermuscular septum between the muscles on the anterior and the posterior portion of the forearm. the inferior RADIO-ULNAR .JOINT. The head of the ulna is held in the sigmoid cavity of the radiias by the anterior and the posterior radio- ulnar ligaments. Between the free distal end of the ulna and the cuneiform bone a plate of fibro-cartilage is inserted. The several parts of the joint, therefore, are— The Anterior Radio-Ulnar Ligament. The Posterior Radio-Ulnar Ligament. The Fibro-Cartilage. The Synovial Membrane. The Anterior and the Posterior Radio-Ulnar Liga- ments (figs. 2, 4, and 5, Plate XXXIX.) are straight and narrow bands extending on either side of the radio-ulnar articulation. The Fibro-Cartilage is of a triangular form, placed transversely to the axis of the forearm. It is thick, and attached by its base to a ridge at the carpal side of the sigmoid of the radius; and by its small extremity to the notch between the head of the radius, and the styloid process. Jt is thin at the sides and centre, where, indeed, it may be perforated, but thick at the apex and the circumference. The apex is a stout bgamentous structure by means of which the carti- lage is attached to the ulna. It is concave on both sides—above for the head of the ulna, and below for the cuneiform bone. The Synovial Membrane between the radius and the ulna is continuous with that between the fibro-cartilage and the head of the ulna. It is known as the mem- hrana sacciformis, and is remarkable for containing a relatively large amount of synovial fluid. The movements of pronation and supination do not affect the ulna when the elbow-joint is extended, but induce a slight rotatory motion, which is best marked at the distal end when the elbow is semi-flexed. The Wrist-Joint. The Avrist-joint (radio-carpal) (figs. 2, 4, and 5, Plate XXXIX.) is formed by the distal end of the radius, together with the triangular fibro-cartilage articu- lating with the proximal surface of the first row of carpal bones. — The proximal factor of the wrist- joint is composed of the radius, which forms its outer two-thirds, and of the fibro-cartilage, which forms its inner third. The general surface is concave in both directions, and marked by three impressions: the outer for the scaphoid bone, the middle for the semi- lunar bone, and the inner for the cuneiform bone. The sides of the concavity are deepened by the sty- loid processes.—The distal factor is convex in both directions, with an inclination toward the dorsal sur- face. The joint embraces— The Capsular Ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament. The External Lateral Ligament.