204 THE BONES. The tarsal and the proximal ends of the metatarsal bones of the median series, excepting the astragalus, tend to form wedges (least pronounced in the sca- phoid) whose bases are either dorsal or plantar; while those of the median series are wedges whose bases are lateral (least pronounced in the fourth metatarsal). The plantar surface of the median series is acutely arched at the tarsus and the metatarsus, while the plantar surface of the lateral series is flat. It is of interest to note that wounds of the lateral series are less severe than those of the median. In addition to the disposition of the bones above noted, the foot, when studied as a separate mechanism, yields two principal arches—the longitudinal and transverse—which are arranged to sustain the weight of the body, and to protect the plantar nerves and bloodvessels. The longitudinal arch is not an exact . figure, since it is composed of the oblique line extend- ing from the ball of the foot to the summit of the astragalus, and thence, by an abrupt descent, to the external plantar tubercle of the calcaneum. The transverse arch is best defined at the medio-tarsal joint, between the plantar surface of the first cunei- foi'm bone and the lateral border of the cuboid. Both the longitudinal and the transverse arches are subject to modification. The formation of the trans- verse arch depends upon the ability of the bones composing it to be accurately adjusted by pressure; upon the degree and the kind of motion permitted between the bones; upon the nature of the connecting- ligaments, as well as the lines of traction of powerful muscles. When the arch is relieved from the strain of the weight of the body, it assumes a narrow and high position; but when it sustains the weight of the body, it tends to become flattened, and would be obliterated were it not for the weight forcing the lateral and the median ends of the arch to the sides, at the same time that the dorsal approximal angles of the bones are tilted toward each other. As the arch is thus retained, the ligaments and the tendons of muscles passing between the plantar surfaces and the corresponding surfaces of the other bones be- come tense and limit the degree of motion. The muscles that sustain the arch are the Tibialis Anticus, the Tibialis Posticus, and the Peroneus Longus. When, apart from the condition of the bone, softening of the ligaments or paralysis of the muscles ensues, the efficacy of the arch is impaired, and may be destroyed. Flat foot and various pseudo- neuralgic conditions may result from such failure of action. Development.—The tarsal bones ossify after the following method : Each arises from a separate centre, except the calcaneum, which retains an epiphyseal centre at the surface of attachment of the tendo Achillis. The calcaneum receives its bony nucleus at the sixth month; the astragalus at the seventh month; the cuboid at the ninth month; the third cuneiform at the first year; the internal cuneiform at the third year; and the scaphoid and middle cuneiform at the fourth year. The calcaneal epi- physis joins the body of the bone at the tenth year. Gruber* reports a case in which the portion of the astragalus accommodating the tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis existed as a distinct ossicle. The metatarsal bones and the phalanges develop after the method of the similar parts in the hand. Each bone presents a single nucleus for the shaft or body, and one for an epiphysis. The epiphyseal nucleus is distal in the metatarsal bones from the second to the fifth, but is proximal in the first. The epiphyseal nucleus is proximal in all the phalanges. The order of ossification is as follows: In the metatarsal bones the nuclei of the shafts appear in the eighth or ninth week. The epiphyses appear from the third to the eighth year, and unite with the shafts from the eighteenth to the twentieth year. The nuclei of the shafts of the phalanges appear in the ninth or tenth week. The epiphyses appear from the eighth to the tenth year, and unite with the shafts from the nine- teenth to the twenty-first year.^ ' Arcliiv. Anat., Physiol., und Wissensch. Medecin., 1864, 286. 2 Quaiii's Anatomy.