AND THE THE JOINTS 220 LIGAMENTS. c<>o^<>C>c>- describe the ligaments of the acromio-clavicular joint as constituting a true capsule. Since the facet occu- pies the posterior part of the scapular portion of the clavicle only, it follows that the ligamentous tissue in advance of the facet is entirely distinct from the joint.—The capsule is composed of a number of straight tibres, embracing the facets, and extending from the lateral end of the clavicle to the median side of the acromion. It is much thicker above than below. The Interarticular Fibro-Cartilage is rudimental. The capsule sends the disk inward from its vmder surface. It is rarely sufficiently large to separate entirely the joint surfaces, and may be absent. The Synovial Membrane resembles the membrane found in other joints. When the interarticular fibro- cartilage is complete, two sacs are formed. Dislocation of the scapular end of the clavicle is exceedingly difficult to reduce. The Coraco-Clavicular Lirjament, The Coraco-Clavicular Ligament extends from the clavicle at and near the conoid tubercle to the cora- coid process. It is composed of two portions—the conoid and the trapezoid, which are often spoken of as distinct ligaments. The two portions are more or less continuous on the coracoid process, as they con- verge from the clavicular attachments. The conoid portion (conoid ligament) is nearly vertical, and is placed somewhat behind and to the median side of the trapezoid. It is more or less triangular in form, and extends between the conoid tubercle and the posterior border of the scapular end of the clavicle downward, to be attached to the median side of the base of the coracoid process directly in front of the scapular notch. It oftentimes receives a small fascicle from the sheath of the Subclavius muscle. The trapezoid portion (trapezoid ligament) extends ob- liquely from the clavicle downward and inward. It is placed somewhat in front and to the lateral side of the conoid portion, and is attached above to the clavicle from the oblique line on the under surface of the scapular end of the clavicle, and below to the rough surface of the median border of the base of the cora- coid process. A bursa is often found between the two ligaments. The subclavicular groove extends a short distance between them. Movements.—In the acromio-clavicular joint the clavicular facet and the inter-articular disk are rela- tively fixed ; while the scapular facet is circumducted, and responds to all the motions of the scapula. The coraco-clavicular ligament acts as a check to rotation of the scapula, and indirectly relieves the joint from strain. The acromio-coracoid ligament also relieves it, as in the acts of creeping and in pushing downward THE SHOULDER JOINT. The shoulder-joint (scapulo-humeral joint) repre- sents the contact of the head of the bone against the glenoid cavity of the scapula. Both the surfaces are covered with cartilage. That on the humerus is thickest in the middle, and thinnest at the sides; that of the glenoid cavity is thinnest in the middle, and thickest at the sides. The ligaments of the shoulder-joint are— The Capsular Ligament. The Coraco-Humeral Ligament. The Synovial Membrane. The Capsular Ligament is a loose capsule of fibrous tissue attached to the neck of the scapula just beyond the brim of the glenoid cavity above, and to the neck of the humerus below. It is notably strengthened externally by a band arising from the base of the coracoid process, and dii'ected toward the greater tuberosity of the humerus, known under the name of the coraco-humeral ligament, and in a less degree by the tendons of the Supra-spiuatus, the Infra-spinatus, and the Subscapularis muscles. The two muscles last named are remarkable for the intimate manner in which the fibres of the capsule are associated with them. The capsule is weakened at the point of union, and may be defective, as in the instance where the tendon of the Subscapularis and that of the Infra- spinatus lie in contact with it.—Tbe ligament forms a loose vertical fold at the inner side of the neck of the humerus when the arm is in repose. This fold is, however, obliterated when the arm is elevated.—The capsule is sufficiently capacious to hold a body much larger than that of the head of the humerus, and requires the sustained action of the muscles about the joint to keep the head of the bone in position. It is supported within by the long head of the Biceps muscle, which passes over the head of the humerus, and which serves to give it support by the pressure exerted Irom below upward. It is further strengthened from without by the position of the coracoid process, the acromion, and the coraco-acromial ligament. The Synovial Membrane of the shoulder-joint sends short prolongations along the course of the Infra-spinatus and the Subscapularis muscles and the defective places in the capsule. A third cul-de-sac passes along the entire length of the bicipital groove of the humerus, which is inclosed by a transverse fibrous