THE BONES, 186 X><>^OOa the inferior borders. It is tliin and compressed in the iliac and acetabular portions, but is robust below. The posterior border embraces the posterior superior, and the posterior inferior spinous processes, the greater and the lesser sciatic notches, the ischiatic spine, and the ischiatic tuberosity. These have been described in connection with the lateral surface. The obturator foramen is a large oval or triangular opening with sub-rounded angles, and is defined bv borders derived from the pubis and the ischium. It is marked above by a faint prominence near the cotyloid notch, and below by another near the pubo- ischiatic junction. The foramen in life is occupied by a firm fibrous membrane which is covered later- ally by the Obturator Externus muscle, and medianly by the Obturator Internus. It is pierced above by the obturator vessels and nerve. Structure. — The greatest amount of compact tissue of the innominate bone is found in the curve of great sciatic notch and the bone extending thence be- neath the spine of the ischium. The compact tissue is also well developed at the articular surface of the acetabulum and the dorsum of the ilium. The main bulk of the bone, however, is spongy, even the iliac and the ischiatic tuberosities being in great part composed of oancelli. The laminae about the acetabulum are coarser than elsewhere, and exhibit radiating fibres which pass from the socket laterally, and which are intersected by others answering to the curvatures of this portion of the bone. The centre of the iliac fossa, which is the thinnest portion of the ilium, is, as a rule, translucent. In the negro the bone is massive, and the translucent appearance above men- tioned is absent. Development.—The innominate bone arises from eight centres of ossification. The first centre appears in the ilium at about the eighth week ; the second, in the ischium at the third month ; the third, in the pubis at the fifth month. The remaining centres are acces- sory to the above. The ilium exhibits two secondary points of ossification, the one for the crest, the other for the anterior inferior spinous process. The ischium retains one centre for the tuberosity; and the pubis also one for the symphyseal surface. The pubis and the ischium unite by their adjoined rami at about the eighth year. After the three main portions of the in- nominate bone have contributed to define the acetabu- lum, there still remains intermediate to their opposed surfaces at the bottom of the socket, a Y-shaped piece of cartilage, within which at about the eighth year, a nucleus of bone, retaining the shape of the cartilage, appears; this nucleus, while not serving as an epi- physis to any of the innominate segments, unites therewith about the twentieth year. Eemarks.—The innominate bone presents many varieties in the proportions and in the degrees of mas- si veness of the several parts composing it, while yield- ing but few distinct variations of minor character. Malgaigne invites attention to the fact that the pro- jection of the first convexity of the dorsum of the ilium forms a dividing line of surgical significance. In fracture near the crest he finds the lines extending either from the portion in front of the convexity backward or from a point back of the convexity forward.—Osteophytes have been noted arising from the ilio-pectineal line to a sufficient height to serve as an exciting cause of uterine laceration during labor.^—The posterior lip is liable to be broken in dislocation of the head of the femur backward. Mr. H. Morris^ believes that such fracture always occurs. This extreme position is controverted by Mr. F. S. Eve,^ who, while accepting the fact that the lesion may occur, mentions three instances in which the acetabulum remained intact. It must be borne in mind that the dislocation is assumed to take place by such violence as to thrust the femur upward and backward. In the living subject the crest of the ilium, and the lateral aspects of the ischium and the pubis can be in a measure discerned beneath the integument. In vaginal examinations with the finger the median sur- faces of the pubis and the ischium can be outlined, while the spine of the ischium can be recognized Avith distinctness.—The highest point of the ilium is about on the level of the spine of the fourth lumbar verte- bra.— The anterior superior spinous process is a little below the level of the promontory of the sacrum. THE PELVIS. The pelvis (Fig. 1, Plate XXXII.) is the figure re- sulting from the union of the innominate bones with the sacrum and the coccyx. The artificial pelvis closely resembles the ligamentous, the most important distinction lying in the inferio-lateral portion, where the great sciatic ligament modifies the shape of the outlet of the osseous pelvis. ' New York Medical Journal, xi. 424. z Med.-Chir. Trans., Ix. 161. 3 Med.-Chir. Trans,, Ixii. 51.