13 (97) DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY. THE BONES. GENERAL CONSIDEEATIONS. The skeleton is an assemblage of bones and carti- lages joined together to form the framework of the body. Its several parts serve to protect the viscera, and to act as organs of passive locomotion. A skeleton, as preserved in the cabinet, is said to be natural when the bones and cartilages are held in their natural relations by means of ligaments. It is said to be artificial when the ligaments have been re moved, and wire and leather, or other materials, are substituted for them. Origin of Bones.—The bones of the skeleton arise from cartilage for the most part; such are often named, from this fact, cartilage hones. Bones not arising from cartilage develop from fibrous tissue; such bones are known as membrane hones, since they for the most part appear in membranous expansions. The parietal and frontal bones belong to this group. Cartilages.—The cartilages of the body, while preserving their integrity, aid in resisting shocks and maintaining elasticity. Cartilage is called permanent when it presents no tendency to ossification, and tern- 'porary when it possesses a tendency to turn into bone. Number of Bones.—The number of bones in the body varies according to the age of the subject. The number is increased as the several temporary cartilages ossify, and is decreased as the osseous centres unite one with another. Authors do not agree as to the number of bones in the body, since the age at which the bones should be counted has never been agreed upon. Hyrtl makes the number of bones in the skeleton 240, Leidy, 214, Ward, 206, Quain, 200, Sappey, 198. In order that intelligent comparison may be made between the numbers above given and the number adopted for this work, the bones are enumerated with some detail in the following order:-—■ Spine 24 Skull 22 Small bones of the ear ..... 6 Neck (Hyoid) 1 Ribs 24 Sternum ........ 1 Shoulder girdle (including scapulas and clavi- cles) ........ 4 Superior extremities ...... 60 Sesamoids of same, excluding the pisiforms . 4 Pelvic girdle (including the hip-bones, sacrum, and coccyx) ....... 4 Inferior extremities (excluding the patella;) . 58 Sesamoids of lower extremities (including patellje) 6 214 Of these, the occipital bone, sphenoid bone, ethmoid bone, frontal bone, and bones in the skull, and the sternum, hyoid bone, vertebral column, sacrum, and coccyx are unpaired. The study of the development of the bones will modify the above conclusions both as to number and