THE BONES. 116 c-OO^ one another than are the upper. They are deflected at a right angle from the lamina of its own side. The facets are vertical, slightly convex, and look outward and backward. The vertebral canal is triangular, with sub-rounded angles, or is lozenge-shaped. The curve of the lumbar column is very slight, and is so directed as to be convex forward. To this effect both the bones and the shapes of the intervertebral disks contribute. Friction facets are often seen between opposed bor- ders of the spinous processes, and occasionally a dis- tinct interspinous joint forms. The fifth vertebra is deeper at the anterior than at the posterior margin. The transverse processes lie in a series with the lower so-called transverse processes and with the ribs of the dorsal vertebra. KEMARKS ON THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. The applications to practice that can be made of a knowledge of the anatomy of the vertebral column are numerous and important. It is necessary to remember that the spine is secured in position by the joints between the vertebras. The variations of the shape of the column are due to the dispositions of the joints as well as of the bones. Destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae so far in- terferes with the lines of support already mentioned as to throw the weight of the superimposed mass upon the laminsB. These are not adapted to sustain Guch weight, save only in the cervical vertebra; and when, as is frequently the case, the dorsal vertebras are involved, the drag of the ribs, sternum, and their muscular and visceral attachments create an exagge- rated antero-posterior curvature of the dorsal verte- brae, ending in deformity not only at the portion of the spine thus yielding, but in others, so that a group of secondary changes in the entire vertebral column arise, distorting or obliterating the normal curves. Roslan, according to Portal,^ has found a greater ' Anat. Med. 1. 295, note. tendency to displacement on the parts of the bones of the vertebral column to exist between the last dorsal and the first lumbar vertebra than elsewhere. Jeffries Wyman,' in reaffirming that the lumbar region is the weakest portion of the lumbar arch notwithstanding its increased bulk when compared to the other re- gions of the spine, uses the following language:— "In dorsal vertebrae the arches are characterized by the breadth of the laminae and by having the trans- verse processes implanted just between the articular ones, where, in consequence, the arch becomes greatly strengthened, in fact, has its greatest strength. In the lumbar region the transverse processes are thrown further forward, so as to rest more upon the pedicle, wliile the upper and lower articulating ones become more widely separated from each other, the lower ones being carried downwards, and the bone connect- ing them so contracted as to form a somewhat slender neck ; thus the part in question becomes the weakest instead of the strongest portion of the arch." Malgaigne, while recognizing the weak point above defined, gives two others, one at the junction of the cervicals and the dorsals, and the other at the junction of the lumbar vertebrae and the sacrum;—in a word, including a^^the vertebrae of transition. Humphry has cited a number of related causes in explanation of the same group of facts. Since, for ex- ample, "the transverse processes being very short, while the long transverse processes in the lower part of the loin, added to the projecting crest of the ilium below, and the false and true ribs above, afford to the several muscles a powerful leverage acting upon this junction on either side and in front. It is near the mid- dle of the column, so that a greater length of leverage can be brought to bear against it than at any other part." The next weakest point in the vertebral column is the dorsal region. Fracture is relatively frequent here, and, as already stated, antero-posterior curvature of the spine is common. Dr. D. J. Cunningham^ has observed a vertebral ' Bost. Med. and Surg. Journ. 1869. 2 Journ. Anat. and Vhys. 1878, 89. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIV. Fig. 1. The sacrum, seen from in front. Fig. 2. The sacrum, seen from the side. The reader should read the word "promontory" as referring Instead of "for sacral vertebra," read "1st sacral ver- to the anterior surface of the first sacral vertebra at its upper tebra." part. Fig. 3. The sacrum, seen from behind. Fig. 4. Tiie coccyx, seen from behind.