THE BONES. 112 crossing the place of exit of the anterior division of the first spinal nerve.' The atlas tends in its varieties to hypertrophy of its lateral and atrophy or defective development of its median parts. The former variety may have the anterior tubercle of exaggerated size, when the pro- minence felt in the ncclv behind the angle of the lower jaw would be larger than usual; a process of bone may arise from the upper surface, and may even join the rarely present para-mastoid of the occipital bone. Of the latter variety, the anterior arch may be imper- fectly ossified and a joint intervene, and the posterior arch be entirely absent, or a median hiatus of con- siderable size may exist which is occupied by fibrous tissue. In a very instructive case reported by Kiissmaul and Tenner,^ an exact relation was detected between defective development of the atlas and the recurrence of epileptic convulsions. Tlic patient was a boy twelve years of age, and the attacks supervened only upon rotation of the head. The coincidence of this motion with the attacks led to a careful examina- tion of the parts after death. - The defect of devel- opment described in the preceding paragraph was found to exist. The right segment of the imperfect arch passed across the median line nearly to the opposite side of the bone, and overlapped the left segment by one-third of an inch. The head being strongly rotated upon the spine, the ends of the im- perfect posterior arch were seen to move forward, and in so doing the capacity of the vertebral canal was diminished and its contents compressed. It was inferred by the reporters that such action of the parts had followed each act of rotation during life, and, as a result of the spinal compression in this way induced, the convulsions had ensued. This conclusion appears to be a reasonable one, since it is in full harmony with the causation of at least one form of epilepsy as defined by writers on nervous disease, namely, that caused 1 W. Allen, Journ. Anat. and Phys., xiv., 1879, 18. 2 Moleschott's Untersuclmiigen zur Natuiielire der Mensclieu und der Thiere, 1857, iii. 122. by pressure against the brain and spinal cord from exostoses, etc. It is seen from this case that a deformation, which is at first sight of purely theoretical significance may be of great importance as an exciting cause to dis- eased action. THE AXIS. The axis or second cervical vertebra (figs. 3 and -1, Plate XIII.) presents a body which is compressed from before backwards and furnished above with a conspicuous tooth-like process,—the odontoid process. The laminae of the axis are massive, but its trans- verse processes are small and possess but a single tubercle. As is the case with the atlas there is no superior notch, i. e., the superior facet is placed in front of the intervertebral groove. The liodi/ of the axis is marked in front by a ver- tical eminence, upon either side of which is a depres- sion for attachment of the Longus Colli muscle. The anLerior border of the under surface is produced below the level of the posterior. The lower surface is moderately concave for recep- tion of the tliird cervical vertebra. The uj[)i:)cr surface is furnished with the conspicuous odontoid 2->rocess. This is a vertical cylindrical emi- nence, whose anterior surface is slightly inclined backward, but whose posterior surface is nearly ver- tical. Its lip is sometimes prolonged. The lateral surfaces of the process near the lip are depressed for attachment of the powerful check ligaments. The process is constricted at the base behind, and at the sides by a well-defined neck for the accommodation of the transverse ligament. The anterior surface pre- sents an oval facet for articulation with the atlas (fig. 3, Plate XXXVL). The laminse ihe axis arise from nearly the entire side of the body ; directly behind the superior articu- lar process the up])er border is faintly depressed to form the inter-vertebral groove for the passage of the second cervical nerve. The spinous process is mas- EXPLANATION OF PLATE XIII. Fig. 1. A cervical vertebra, seen from in front. Fig. 2. The atlas, seen from above. Fig. 3. The axis, seen from the side. Fig. 4. The axiS; seen from in front. Fig. 5. A dorsal vertebra, seen from in front. Fig. 6. A dorsal vertebra, seen from the side. Fig. 7. A lumbar vertebra, seen from in front. A lumbar vertebra, seen from the side. Fig. 8