THE S ULL. 157 the blow. Thus fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone may follow a blow on the vertex at the ascending portion of the same bone. To facilitate the study of lesions resulting from blows received on the vertex Prescott Hewett' proposes a division of the skull into three segments or zones: an anterior zone formed by the frontal, the upper part of the ethmoid, and the wings of the sphenoid; a middle zone, by the parietals, the squamous, and the anterior surface of the petrous portions of the temporals, with the greater part of the body of the sphenoid bone; and a poste- rior zone, including the occipital, the mastoid, and the posterior surfaces of the petrous portions of the tem- porals, with a small part of the body of the sphenoid. —With the skull thus divided, the lines of fracture in the less severe cases are seen to be strictly limited to one or the other of these zones.—The region of the sphenoid bone, either alone or in combination with the other regions of the base, is that in which fracture most frequently occurs. Upon it the lines of conduc- tion from the parietal arch are converged. [h) The Position of the Head at the Time of the Recep- tion of the Blow.—Some of the vibrations of blows received upon the vertex the skull will conduct either through the cranio-basic axis or the vertebral column. The manner in which this is accomplished will vary according to the position of the head at the time of the reception of the blow. The occipital con- dyles rest upon the atlas, and it is seen that each con- dyle is placed obliquely to the base of the skull, and consequently to its axis. Its anterior portion is thick, i its posterior is thin. The weight of the skull tends i inevitably to press the condyles within the concavity of the atlas, and it follows that the line of this pres- sure will be downward and inward, and more at the anterior part of the condyle than at the posterior. The convergence of the condyles tends to effect a union of the lines of support and to transfer them from the condyles to the axis of the skull; so in effect the basilar process and the body of the sphenoid bone receive the weight of the skull plus that of the face. The skull, however, is not balanced upon the verte- bral column, but inclines to drop forward. This ten- dency is made necessary by the action of the post- cervical and the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscles. THE SKULL CONSIDERED IN RELATION TO AGE. The description of the skull, as usually accepted, ap- plies to that of the adult only. Numerous modifica tious of the account given in the preceding section ' Holmes's Systuiii of Surgery, voL ii. are required to properly define the skull before de- velopment is complete, or after old age has set in. Two types will be especially mentioned in this con- nection. These may be called the shall at lirjh, and the skull in extreme old aye. The Shdl at Birth.—The skull presents conspicuous prominences at the centres of ossification of the parietal and the frontal bones ; the region of the occipital pro- Fig. 68. tuberauce is markedly convex. The sutural lines are straight or nearly so. The fontanelles are all present. The skull presents many negative features, such as the absence of basal processes—the pterygoid pro- cesses alone excepted; the external auditory meatus is undeveloped; the jaws are edentulous, and the alveolar processes absent; the glenoid fossa is shal- low, and affords little protection to the condyloid pro- cess of the inferior maxilla; the sinuses are rudimen- tary or absent. The peculiarities of proportion are numerous. The face constitutes but one-eighth of the entire figure, instead of nearly one-half in the adult. This is chiefly owing to the imperfect ver- tical growth of the bones. The orbits present deep depressions for the lachrymal glands. The entire cranium, as compared with the trunk, is large. Its length from the forehead to the occiput is great, as compared to its breadth. The breadth is great from one parietal protuberance to the other in proportion to the height. The brain-case is shallow in comparison with its capacity anteriorly and posteriorly. The orbit is much less deep at the median wall in the infant, owing to the imperfect descent of the median structures of the face; the proportions of the lateral wall are about as in the adult.