190 THE BONES. ■JOO^OOO— nus muscle. Tlie shaft is nourished by a branch of the femoral artery which enters a canal situated about the junction of the middle and the upper third of the shaft, and is directed upward. The upjjer extremity of the femur presents for ex- amination the head, the neck, the great trochanter, and the lesser trochanter. The head is large and rounded, and enters into the construction of the hip joint. It corresponds in posi- tion to a vertical line produced upward from the inner condyle. Describing nearly two-thirds of a sphere, the head presents a larger articular surface above than below the transverse plane, and projects over the neck more sharply below than above. At the lateral margin the head is continuous with the front of the neck, and extends thereon a few lines beyond the general articular surface. A little below and behind the centre of the head is a shallow circular depression for the attachment of the ligamentum teres. Else- where the head is separated from the neck by a shallow groove. With the exception of the depres- sion for the ligamentum teres the head of the femur is covered with cartilage in the living subject. The nech is a broad process of bone directed obliquely upward and inward from the upper end of the shaft at an angle of about 130°. Compressed from be- fore backward, its anterior part is much flatter than the posterior, and presents, as a rule, a long narrow oblique border below, and a straight rounded more horizontal border above, which is perforated with numerous venous foramina. The neck is marked in front near the articular surface by a faint depression, which is often cribriform in appearance, and may receive the name of the cervical fossa. The neck is limited below by the inter-trochauteric line, and in front by the spiral line. A number of small nutritious foramina are seen on the hinder aspect of the neck at its base. The great trochanter (trochanter major) is a large process continuous with the shaft and inclined to its lateral side. It lies on a lower level than the head, namely about three-quarters of an inch, and when the femur is in articulation it is nearly on a level with the spine of the pubis. It is irregularly quadri- lateral in shape, the posterior border being imperfect. The anterior harder is limited about the position of the tubercle at the point where the Vastus Externus and the Gluteus Maximus muscles meet. The superior lorder is rounded, and serves behind at its free portion for the insertion of the Pyriformis, and in part, where it is continuous with the neck, for the insertion of the Obturator Internus. At the angle of junction of the superior and the anterior borders, the Gluteus Mini- mus is inserted, while the corresponding angle between the superior and the posterior borders forms a promi- nent process, which lies about on a level with the depression for the ligamentum teres. The inferior lorder is obscure, and answers to the line of union of the trochanteric epiphysis with the shaft. The ante- rior surface of the great trochanter is flat. The pjosterior surface is large and convex, and is crossed obliquely from above downward and forward and from within outward by a faint ridge which limits inferiorly the space for the insertion of the Gluteus Medius muscle. Below this ridge is a smooth surface (covered by a bursa in the subject) over which glides the Gluteus Maximus. The median surface is dejtressed to form the digital fossa, into which is inserted the tendon of the Obturator Externus, and, in part, that of the Obturator Internus. The lesser trochanter (trochanter minor) is designed to receive the insertion of the conjoined tendon of the Iliacus Internus and the Psoas Magnus muscles. It is situated below and behind the base of the neck, and is directed inward and backward. It is somewliat nipple-shaped, and presents a posterior surface which is smooth, and on the plane of the general posterior aspect of the bone at this point. The anterior, supe- rior, and inferior surfaces are free; the last serve to support the process from below. The summit of the lesser trochanter is, in the living subject, covered by a bursa over which glides the Quadratus Femoris muscle. Under the name of the intertrochanteric line is in- cluded a prominent ridge extending obliquely down- EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXIII. Fig. 1. The femur seen from beliind in natural position. Fig. 2. The femur seen from in front in conventional posi- tion. Fig. 3. The femur seen from the lateral aspect in the natu- ral position. The words " Depression for annular ligament" should be omitted.