THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 175 — o<>>0§^00o ■ is nevertheless apt to remain with the periosteum belonging to the proximal fragment.^ The distal epi- physis may be detached entire, or the mass composed of the radial and trochlear centres may remain in Fig. 70. Humerus showing spparation of the proximal epipliysis. connection with the shaft, and either the epicondyle or epitrochlea be detached. Luschka mentions an example of the former in which the centre, while detached, still retained a quasi connection with the shaft by cartilage. Remarks.—The bones of the superior extremity are generally described as though the forearm and the hand were strongly supinated. This position so places the humerus that its deltoid surface moves from an anterior to a lateral (external) position, and its bicipital from a median (internal) to an anterior. The physician, however, will rarely be required in making examinations to place the limb in this unusual position. It is advisable that the bones should be studied as they are seen in the position of rest, namely, with the hand and forearm pronated. Thus seen, the deltoid surface of the humerus is directed forward and slightly outward, and the bicipital groove forward and slightly inward. The lower extremity is not at a right angle to the axis of the trunk, but hangs obliquely so that the epicondyle is on a plane in front of the epitrochlea. The varieties in the shape of the humerus are not numerous. One of the most striking is an angula- tion of the shaft at the position of the insertion of the Deltoid muscle, and at first sight it appears to be the result of this muscle's traction on the bone. The shaft above the angle is directed inward and back- ' Jno. Hutchinson, Med. Times and Gaz., March 10, 1866, 248. ward, and the bone about the angle is sometimes thicker and rougher than is the rule. The last-named appearance, when taken in conjunction with the appa- rently lent shaft, has caused these specimens to be confounded with others that show effects of fracture. No mistake of this kind need be made if the side opposite to the angulation be examined. Should the specimen be one of old fracture, the opposite side will be uneven, while it is quite smooth in the variety of the normal bone just mentioned. The surface of origin of the third head of the Triceps muscle is often convex instead of flat, and may be the seat of localized ostitis.—The bases of the depressions for the olecranon and the coronoid processes may communicate with each other. Under the name of the supra-condyloi'd process is described as a rare anomaly a slender process pro- jected from the median border of the bone above the internal condyle (epitrochlea). It is supposed to be a rudiment of an osseous bridge that defines a foramen seen in this position in some quadrupeds, as in the dog and the raccoon. The Pronator Radii Teres muscle may arise by means of a thin fibrous band from this process.' The shape of the humerus can be with relative ease defined under the skin. Among the more conspicuous points may be mentioned the greater tuberosity, the general direction of the bicipital groove, the epitroch- lea, and the epicondyle. The fingers, pushed well up into the axilla, will be found to reach the shaft at the surgical neck. This method of examination is facilitated by a moderate degree of elevation of the arm. According to Holden, it is just below the insertion of the Deltoid that ununited fracture of the shaft is seen, partly on account of the injury to the nutritious artery here situated, and partly on account of the action of the Deltoid muscle in causing a riding of the proximal fragment over the distal.—Old persons not infrequently sufier from fracture high up through the tuberosities, just as they are liable to fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, and of the cancellous structure at the base of the trochanter.^ Exostoses have been seen occupying the position of insertion of the Pectoralis Major, the third head of the Triceps at its upper part, and the insertion of the Latissimus Dorsi. When such outgrowths occur, the portion of the shaft below the anatomical neck is ' For literature and fignres, see W. Grulier, Mem. Acad, of St. Petersburgh, 1859, 55 ; also, Jno. Struthers, Edin. Med. Journ., 1848, and Lancet, 186.S, i. 87. 2 Jno. Hutcliinson, Med. Times and Gaz., 18C6, 303.