THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. 217 LIGAMENTS OF — 000^<»o<- The Superior Costo-Transverse (anterior) (figs. 4, 5, Plate XXXVI.) is attached below to the upper border of the neck of the rib, and passes upward and outward to be attached to the under surface of the transverse process next above. It is broader than the inferior, and is absent in the first and the twelfth ribs. The Inferior Costo-Transverse (middle interosseous) (figs. 4, 5, Plate XXXVI.) is attached to the lower border of the neck of the rib, and passes downward and slightly outward by short, stout fibres, to be attached to the anterior surface of the adjacent transverse process. It is rudimentary in the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The Posterior Costo-Transverse passes from the tip of the transverse process to the tuberosity behind the facet of the rib in connection with it. This ligament is wanting in the eleventh and twelfth ribs. The Capsular Ligaments unite the articular facets at the tuberosities of the first to the tenth ribs with the facets on the corresponding transverse processes. Synovial Sacs. Each joint, as above defined, is lined by a simple, delicate synovial membrane (fig. 5, Plate XXXVI). The intercostal joints and ligaments are as follows:— The Posterior Tntercostals. The Anterior Intercostals. The Synovial Membranes. The Posterior Intercostal Ligaments (fig. 4, Plate XXXVI.) are thin bands, passing between the ribs a short distance in advance of the tuberosities. The Anterior Intercostal ligaments connect the costal cartilages from the sixth to the eighth. The Synovial membranes (fig. 3, Plate XXXA^II.) are confined to the region last named. They are inconstant, simple in character, and variable in form. Sometimes the cartilages at poiuts answering to the synovial sacs are furnished with small facets. The costo-sternal joints and ligaments present the following structures :— The Anterior Costo-Sternal. The Posterior Costo-Sternal. The Capsular. The Synovial Membrane. The Anterior Costo-Sternal Ligament is a broad, membranous expansion, passing from the sternal ends of the costal cartilages of both sides, from the first to the seventh, to the anterior surface of the sternum, where the fibres freely interlace. The ligament does not 28 support the costo-sternal articulations, but protects the sternum from in front. The Posterior Costo-Sternal Ligament is weaker than the anterior, and preserves to the posterior surface of the sternum the relations borne by the anterior costo- sternal ligament to the anterior surface. Special bands pass from the sixth and seventh costal cartilages to the ensiform cartilages. The Capsular Ligaments, usually described as en- closing the synovial membranes placed between the sternal ends of the costal cartilages and the sternum, are, properly speaking, portions of the anterior and posterior costo-sternal ligaments. Both the synovial membrane and the capsule are absent, as a rule, in the first costal cartilage. The Synovial Membranes at the second costo-sternal junction are two in number—one above, and the other beneath the ligamentous structure extending from a central ridge on the sternal end of the cartilage to the line of junction between the manubrium and the gladiolus. The remaining synovial cartilages inter- vene between the ends of the third to the seventh costal cartilages and the sides of the manubrium. Under the head of the sternal ligaments sys- tematic writers describe special bands of the anterior and the posterior costo-sternal ligaments that unite the manubrium and the gladiolus before the ossifi- cation of the sternum is complete. They do not requiz'e separate descriptions. THE LIGAMENTS OF THE SUPERIOR EXTREMITY. The Ligaments of the Superior Extremity are arranged in the following groups :— The Claviculo-Sternal Joint and Ligaments. The Joint and Ligaments of the Shoulder. The Elbow-Joint and Ligaments. The Ligaments of the Radius and Ulna. .The Wrist-Joint and Ligaments. The Ligaments of the Hand. The Claviculo-Sternal Joints and Ligaments, The Claviculo-Sternal Joint is composed of the thoracic articular surfaces of the clavicle, the clavic- ular notch of the sternum, and the upper surface of the first rib. The ligaments holding the surfaces together are— The Anterior Sterno-Clavicular. The Posterior Sterno-Clavicular. The Interarticular Fibro Cartilage. The Synovial Membranes.