141 THE BONES OF THE HEAD. OOO^OOO Jno. Hunter' declared tliat tlie "alveolar processes of both jaws should rather be considered as belonging to the teeth than as parts of the jaws." It follows that all diseases of the alveolus are to be considered as dental in their significance. Tlius epulis is peculiarly an alveolar disease. A tooth in any portion of the jaw other than that of the alveolus is as much out of place as though it were lodged in another bone. There is little doubt that the third permanent molar, when in the position so often as- sumed by it at the end of the alveolus, half within and half without the dental arch, with its roots, it may be, deflected within the compact and resisting tissue of the base of the coronoid process, acts as a foreign body; and as a splinter in the flesh provokes inflammation, so such a tooth is of necessity a fertile cause of diseased action about the angle of the jaw. Should a tooth be lodged beneath the alveolus, as in the encysted form, it either gives rise to chronic abscess or provokes those common tumors, the odontomes, which frequently are of such fearful import. Cystic disease about the angle of the jaw is so often excited by a misplaced third molar that the teeth should always be examined in attempting to diagnose this condition. In a case men- tioned by Bordenave,^ fetid matter from the collection about the wisdom-tooth escaped after removal of the second and third molars. Dr. Mason Warren^ describes a number of cases of cystic tumor of the angle of the jaw. In one of these the growth began by a swelling at the root of the third molar of the right side. By the end of several years it involved the whole right ascending ramus. It was of a globular shape, extended back under the lobe of the ear, and forward to encroach upon the cavity of the mouth. In another the growth extended backward into the parotid region, upward upon the face, and "inward to involve the right half of the palate, where it was covered by a highly irritable oedematous mucous membrane resembling that cover- ing malignant growths in the same locality." There was a slight discharge of fluid through the remains of the socket of the last molar. This being enlarged, the cystic character of the growth was made clear. In a third instance, a growth of six years' duration, which attained the size of a hen's egg, began in the socket of the third molar. It would be interesting to trace the connection be- ' Palmer's Hunter, i. 4. 2 Surgical Essays, Sydeiihani Series. 3 Surgical Observations, with Cases 18G7, 72. and Operations, Boston, tween defects of the teeth-germs and congenital cystic tumor of the lower jaw, such as is described by Coate,' occurring on the right side of the lower jaw of an in- fant three months of age. Death ensued from ex- haustion^ following an operation for its removal. That the body of the jaw is a growth distinct from the alveolus is shown in the study of cases of con- genital defects of the bone. In the following rare manifestation of imperfect development characterized by permanent fixation of the two halves of the bone, we have, as the adult condition is attained, the jaw preserving the proportions of the infant as far as the body is concerned, while the teeth and alveolus are as well pronounced as in a normal jaw. Mr. Humphry^ describes the case as follows:— "The lower jaw is almost completely fixed, with the molar teeth clinched against the upper, so that there is no perceptible interval between them. The jaw is broad or natural at the angles, and the angular parts have descended nearly to their proper level; but the arch formed between the two angles is ex- tremely small. Indeed, the body and the mental por- tions of jaw run forward scarcely at all, and do little more than pass from one angle to the other. The chin is in a plane two inches behind the alveolar edge of the upper jaw, instead of being a little in front of it. There has been, therefore, a failure, amountina; to at least two inches, in the growth of the body of the jaw in length ; and it is also less deep than natural. The failure, however, has not been shared in quite an equal degree by the alveolar portion. This forms a segment of a larger circle, taking a wider sweep, and, consequently, oveilianging the lower part of the body of the jaw. By this means greater room is given for the teeth, which are as numerous and as lanje as natural; and they are disposed in a slanting fan-like manner, so as to bring the crowns of the molars and hinder bicuspids into contact with those of the upper jaw." (c) The lower javj divided into muscular ivipressions as one part, and the rest of the hone as the remaining part.—Both sides of each ascending ramus may be said to be large muscular impressions—-the lateral for the Masseter, the median (less completely covered) for the Pterygoid muscles, wdiile the tendon of the Tem- poral muscle embraces the coronoid process. The arch of the bone can be called, for the most part, a non-muscular area; for with the exception of the in- ' Sydenham Retrospect, 1861. 2 For a cystic tumor not apparently connected with the teeth, yet strictly alveolar, see R. Adams, Med. Times and Gazette, 1857, 484. 3 Med.-Chir. Rev., 2d series, xxvii. 1862, 288.