THE to the degree of development of the sinus. At the inner third of the supra-orbital arch of each orbit is seen the supra-orlital notch, which transmits the nerve of the same name. The notch is often con- verted into a foramen. A little further out from the border is the foramen for the supra-trochlear nerve. The frontal and superciliary eminences lie upon the line between the eyebrows and the scalp, which limits from above downward the " forehead" of common language. Ordinarily the " forehead" is occupied by the fleshy fibres of the anterior portion of the Occipital Frontalis muscle. Occasionally a median depression marks the locality of the inter- frontal suture, formerly present at this place. The back of the vault or occiput answers to the ascending portion of the occipital bone above the protuberance. It includes the lambdoidal suture, and is covered-with the hairy scalp. The toj) or vertex (crown) extends from an imagi- nary line half way between the coronal siiture and the frontal eminence to the angle of the occipital bone. It embraces the parietal bones between the parietal eminences, and is marked in the median line bv the satjittal suture (inter-parietal). It is evervwhere smooth and convex, and covered by the hairy scalp. The side of the skull is defined above by a line ex- tending from the external lateral process of the frontal bone along the temporal ridge, and thence to the occipital protuberance, and below by a line answering to the lower limitation of the vault. It is made up in great part of the temporal fossa, so named from its occupancy in the undissected subject by the Tempo- ral muscle. Tlie fossa is formed by the temporal, parietal, frontal, sphenoid, and malar bones. It is deeply concave behind the orbito-temporal septum, at a point answering to the greater wing of the sphe- noid bone and the pterion, and more shallow and con- vex posteriorly, where it is gradually lost upon the masto-occipital surface. The anterior portion of the temporal fossa is deeper in the negro than in the Caucasian type. The tem- poral ridge is often represented in the adult skull by several faint lines, which answer to the lines of growth of the skull. The ridge in narrow skulls approaches its fellow of the opposite side to a greater degree than it does in broad skulls.^ In congenital arrest of brain- growth and in low types of skulls, as in the Austra- lian and in some paleo-lithic forms, this approach is decided, and resembles that constantly met with in the lower animals. KULL. ■* 145 Measurements.—Draw a line from the fronto-nasal suture, and continue it over the top of the skull to the occipital protuberance. Cross this line by a second extending transversely from the upper border of the external meatus. Hyrtl finds that a line drawn from the middle of the sagittal suture to the anterior portion of the foramen magnum is about two to three inches less than the transverse line. It will be seen that the skull taken as a whole is most capacious at the junc- tion of its posterior with its middle third. Measure- ments taken as suggested by curved lines are more satisfactory than those taken by means of callipers. A fixed relation should be found between the curves made by these lines in comparing measurements. To aid in securing exact measurements of crania the following terms of Broca, as defined by Flower,'- will be found useful:— Alveolar point. The centre of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar arch. Sulmasal point or Spi'nal jMint. The middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture, at the base of the nasal spine. Naison or Nasal point. The middle of the naso- frontal suture at the base of the nose. Ophyron. A point situated immediately above the nasal eminence, or, more exactlj^, the centre of the supra-orbital line, which, drawn across the narrowest part of the forehead, separates 'the face from the cranium. Bre(jma. The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures. Opnstlwn. The middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. Basion. The middle of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. Pterion. The point of junction of the frontal, sphe- noid, parietal, and temporal bones on the anterior parts of the temporal fossa. Stephanion. The point where the temporal ridge crosses the coronal suture. Asterion. The point behind the mastoid process where the parietal, occipital, and temporal bones meet. The vault of the skull differs greatly in degree of thickness. It maybe exceedingly thin and brittle, or excessively thick. The skull is thickest at the occiput, where its ave- rage measurement is three-quarters of an inch. It is thinnest at the temple and the roof of the orbit. • Liicse, J. C. G., Aruliiteetur dcs Mensclienscliiidels, 1857, pi. xv. 19 ' Ostenlocrical Catalogue of the College of Physicians and Sur- geons, London, Part I., 1879.