218 The accessory ligaments are— The Interclavicalar. The Costo-Clavicular. The Anterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is attached to the front and the upper part of the thoracic end of the clavicle, and passes obliquely downward and in- ward to the manubrium, and to a slight degree to the cartilage of the first rib. It increases in strength toward the interclavicular ligament with which it is continuous. Its upper fibres are in part contiguous to the clavicular fibres of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoi- deus. The Posterior Sterno-Clavicular Ligament is at- tached to the posterior and the lower portion of the thoracic end of the clavicle, and passes in a somewhat radiating manner to the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib. The articular surfaces embraced by the above liga- ments yield unusual features. Instead of presenting concavo-convex facets, they are so shaped that the transverse (frontal) diameter of the clavicle is adapted to the antero-posterior (sagittal) diameter of the ster- num ; both surfaces are more or less saddle-shaped, and the clavicular surface is the larger.^ In order to make the surfaces in a degree coadaptive, the Inter articular Fihro-car tilafje\'& interposed. This disk is of a subrounded shape, wider and thicker above than below, while thin in the centre. It is held more intimately to the clavicle than to the thorax, and is placed obliquely from the upper border of the bone, downward and outward to the cartilage of the first rib. Its anterior surface is convex from within out- ward, and slightly concave from before backward. It answers only to the upper two-thirds of the cla- vicular surface;—the lower triangular facet which rests on the first rib is ordinarily not in contact with ' The clavicular surface is concave above and in the centre, but convex below, while the sternal is elongate transversely, concave from within outward, and a little convex from before backward. THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. sx>o^oo« it. The disk exhibits many varieties. It becomes thinned with old age, and may be perforated, or even absent. The space between tlie disk and the sternum, and the space between it and the clavicle, are distinct; each is lined with a synovial membrane. The lateral cavity is much the more extensive of the two, is pro- longed a short distance beneath the clavicle, and, as a rule, admits from beneath a synovial fold that corresponds in position with the costal surface of the bone. This portion of the joint may, indeed, be entirely separate from the rest. The Interclavicular Ligament is a strong, coarsely- textured prismatic or flattened band extending across the supra-sternal notch between the sternal ends of the clavicles. At its ends the ligament is strengthened by slips which pass to the upper portion of the inter- articular disk, and to the margin of the manubrium. The Costo-Clavicular Ligament (rhomboid ligament) extends obliquely upward and backward from the upper margin of the first rib to the rough impression on the under surface of the clavicle near its thoracic end. It is strong, flat,^and composed of oblique fibres. The ligament is covered by the Pectoralis Major mus- cle, and is stronger in the female than the male. The thin lateral edge is in relation with the median border of the Scalenus Anticus muscle.—It is subject to great variation. In rare instances Luschka has seen a pro- cess of bone take its place. Fracture of the clavicle to the median side of the costo-clavicular ligament does not' prevent the outer fragment from passing forward. Movements.—The movements of the sterno-clavic- ular articulation are of two kinds—one which partakes of the ill-defined but wide range seen in symphy- sis, and another more limited, which is seen in diarthrosis. The former exists between the axial surface of the clavicle and the sternum. The latter » R. W. Smith, Dublin Journ. Med. Sci. 1870, 8. EXPLANATION OF Fig. 1. Sagittal section of the temporal and inferior max- illary bones, showing a similar section of the temporo- maxillary joint. Fig. 2. Portions of the same, showing the temporo-maxillary joint from without, as well as the ligamentous attach- ment between the skull and the hyoid bone. PLATE XXXVIII. Fig. 3. The same from within, omitting tlic cranio-hyoid attachment. Fig. 4. The scapular ligaments and tlie claviculo-scapular attachment. Fig. 5. The same, viewed from in front, together with an anterior view of the shoulder-joint. Fig. 6. Sagittal section of the shoulder-joint.