THE BONES OF THE FOOT. 201 ooogjoc>o . the scaphoid bone behind, and the first, second, and third metatarsal bones, respectively, in'front. With the internal (first) cuneiform the form of the wedge is obscured by having the convex base directed downward. The sides of the bone being curved, and the apex irregxilar, the bone projects distally nearly one-half its length beyond the second. The median surface is free, roughened, unequally convex, aiad marked below by a smooth surface for the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus muscle. The lateral surface is concave, and for the most part is markedly roughened for the attachment of ligaments, but faceted above for articulation with the middle cuneiform bone and the second metatarsal bone. Its proximal surface is pear- shaped, and presents a concave articular surface whose base is directed downward for articulation with the scaphoid bone. Distally a kidney-shaped facet is seen, its notch lying to the outer side, for articulation with the first metatarsal bone. The upper portion of the bone is angulated, and is thicker before than behind. The inferior portion is free, and projects conspicuously below the plane of the other cuneiforms to form the tuherosity which receives the tendon and attachment of the Tibialis Posticus and a portion of the Tibialis Anticus muscles. Holding the bone with its large end downward, the notch in the anterior facet will point to the side to which the bone belongs. The middle (second) cuneiform^ the smallest of the three, resembles a wedge to a greater degree than does either of the other cuneiforms. It is quadrangular on the dorsal surface, slightly narrow toward the distal end, and tapers at the plantar surface to a thin edge. The distal surface, designed for articulation with the second metatarsal bone, is broader below than the proximal which articulates with the scaphoid bone. The median surface is faceted at the upper half and along the proximal margin for the first cuneiform bone. The lateral surface articulates posteriorly and superiorly with the external cuneiform. Holding the bone with the broad end upward and the smaller end forward, the side with the smaller facet will point to the side to which the bone belongs. The external (third) cuneiform recalls the general shape of the preceding, but is readily distinguished therefrom by its greater size, and by retaining the axis of the proximal articular surface at an angle to that of the distal. The bone projects about one-fourth its length distally beyond the middle cuneiform. The distal facet for the third metatarsal bone is longer than the proximal for the scaphoid bone, which in its turn is oblique from without inward, and from behind forward, and concave beneath where it yields a rough- 26 ened surface for the attachment of ligaments. Later- ally the third cuneiform presents at the junction of the dorsal and proximal margins a facet for artic- ulation with the cuboid bone, and occupies about one- fourth of the lateral surface. Occasionally it presents a small facet at the dorsal edge of the distal border for articulation Avith the fourth metatarsal bone. Median- ly the boue is depressed in the centre, and presents a roughened surface with two facets; the proximal of which articulates with the middle cuneiform, and the distal with the second metatarsal bone. Holding the bone with the base upward and the oblique facet backward, the lateral surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Remarks.—Dislocation of the second and third cuneiform bones on the dorsum of the scaphoid is described by Hancock.^ The bones were excised, and the patient, a boy fourteen years of age, recovered. The bones of the tarsus are exceedingly liable to caries. Direct injuries except those arising from crushing degrees of force are infrequent. Small ex- ostoses are not rarely seen on the dorsal surface of the first cuneiform. THE METATARSUS. The metatarsal bones are five in number, arranged in a transverse arch between the row formed by the cuboid and the cuneiform bones behind, and the pha- langes in front. Each bone consists of a shaft and of a distal and a proximal extremity. The shaft is of a prismoidal form, and is more or less compressed laterally. The distal surface is convex, and the proxi- mal flat or slightly concave. The metatarsal bones are divided into those articulat- ing with the first, the second, and the third cuneiform bones, and those articulating with the cuboid, namely, the fourth and the fifth. In each of the former group a line drawn along the dorsum, from the middle of the distal surface, will pass through the middle of the proxi- mal surface. In the latter a line drawn from the same point as above will be directed to the outer margin of the bone before reaching the proximal surface.—-The first bone of the series is the most massive. Its proxi- mal surface is kidney-shaped with the notch directed outward, and is placed at right angles to the longitudi- nal axis of the bone. The distal surface, while convex and smooth above, is marked below by a median ridge defining two grooves, one on either side, for articula- ' Anat. and. Sura;, of the Human Foot, 1873, 95.