125 THE BONES OF THE HEAD. ■ ^-o-O^CXxi municates disease." A secondary inflammation may extend from the roof of the tympanic cavity to the cerebrum; from the external meatus and mastoid cells to the lateral sinus and cerebellum; and from the labyrinth to the medulla and the base of the brain. Of these the second is the most frequently seen. The masto'd cells lie in such close juxtaposition to the lateral sinus, that between the ages of eighteen and fortv-five the septum is thin, and may in parts be absent, so that the lateral sinus touches directly the mucous lining of the cells. In such cases, an inflamma- tory process may extend from the mastoid cells to the lateral sinus, and encranial phlebitis and death may ensue. As a rule, however, inspissation of the mucus of the mastoid cells, if not suppuration and caries, precedes the meningeal complication.—The mastoid foramen has been known to discharge pus from a deep-seated abscess, as seen in the interesting case reported by Dr. F. Buszard.^ The patient had suf- fered eleven months. During the latter portion of this term drowsiness and vomiting were noticeable symptoms. The bone was trephined over the jiosition of the foramen, when the escape of viscid pus, which was believed to have formed within the cranium, followed. The patient recovered.—The petrous, the squamous, and even the tympanic portions of the temporal bone are occasionally lost by necrosis. Mr. Hinton^ reports an instance of the exfoliation of the right tympanic bone in the course of an attack of ostitis following scarlatina in a child five years old. P. Hewitt^ reports a remarkable instance in which the entire bone died and was removed, with a fatal result. The case was that of a boy eleven years of age, the subject of chronic ear discharge. At the autopsy the auditory and facial nerves were seen to terminate in a bulbous mass on the dura mater. The internal carotid artery above and below could be traced as far as the walls of the cavity which had lodged the bone. The vessel was reduced to a small size, however, before it reached this spot, and was impervious. While the temporal bone is not very vascular, as the frequency and extraordinary extent of necrosis above mentioned would indicate, severe and even fatal hemorrhage has attended the removal of bony sequestra (see account of Common Carotid Artery). Meningitis and inflammation of veins joining the lateral sinuses mav also succeed necrosis of this bone. 1 Brit. Med. Journ., 1871, 88. 2 Trans. Patli. Soc, London, 1866, 274. 3 Med. Times and Gazette, 1864, i. 205. The mastoid process, according to Portal.^ is at times the seat of large syphilitic exostoses. The space behind the ear in the living subject is sometimes called the mastoid fossa iix clinical reports. It, however, lies for the most part above the mastoid process, and answers to the squamous surface. The term j.)o.si-a?/r«"c7/fo?- space is here more appropriate. This space, together with the squama, and the por- tions defining the external meatus, are the only parts of the temporal bone that can be detected in the un- dissected subject. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid bone (figs. 1 and 2, Plate XVII., Plate XXIV.) occupies a central position in the head. Before it lies the face; behind it the temporal bone and the basilar process of the occipital. At the sides it joins the parietal and frontal bones, as well as the squamous portion of the temporal bone. It enters into the construction of the roof of the pharynx and nasal chambers, affords attachment to three of the four masticatory muscles, supports the superior dental arch posteriorly, forms part of the outer wall of the orbit, and the anterior and middle cerebral fossae. It is perforated by foramina for branches of the fifth pair of nerves, the optic nerve, and the meningeal arteries. The sphenoid bone is divided into a Lody and ihree pairs of processes, named as follows: the lesser u-inrjSj projecting outward from the side of the body anteriorly; the rjreater wings, from the side of the body posteriorly; and 1\iq pterygoid processes, project- ing downward from the sides of the body beneath. The lody of the bone is of a quadrilateral figure, and presents for examination six surfaces, the superior, inferior, anterior, posterior, and two lateral surfaces.—- The superior surface lies entirely within the brain- case. It is marked in front by the ethmoid spine; be- hind this by a smooth surface which is but faintly marked by a median elevation continuous with the crista galli of the ethmoid bone. On either side lies a groove for the olfactory tract. Connecting these grooves is a nearly transverse sulcus—the optic groove ■—to accommodate the optic nerves. Directly behind this groove is the olivary process for the support of the optic chiasm. The remainder of the surface is deeply concave, and forms the pituitary fossa (sella turcica) for the reception of the pituitary body. Lim- iting this fossa posteriorly is an oblique plate of bone, directed downward and backward, called the dorsum sella- (clivus). When the sphenoid bone is in articu- 1 Auat. Medical.