224 THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. The Capsular Ligament. The anterior portioyi of the capsular ligament is shorter toward the radial side, and stronger than the posterior. It extends from the lower border of the forearm to the first row of carpal bones — thence a slip is continued to the OS magnum. — The 'posterior 'portion (rhomboid ligament) descends obliquely downward and outward to the first row of bones, the fibres notably converg- ing toward the cuneiform bone. The Internal Lateral Ligament passes as a firm cylindrical cord from the spinous process of the uhia to the cuneiform bone, at the same time sending fibres to the pisiform bone and the anterior annular ligament. It is partially covered by the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris muscle. The External Lateral Ligament, stouter though less defined than the preceding, passes from the styloid process of the radius to the scaphoid bone, where it effects a broad attachment. It contributes to the composition of the anterior annular ligament, and thence is continued to the trapezium. Its lateral side is in relation with the Extensor Ossi Metacarpi PoUicis muscle. The Synovial Membrane is loose behind. At times the cavity is continuous with the pisiform articula- tion, and at others, through the absence of one of the interosseus ligaments of the first row, with the inter- carpal synovial sac. The wrist-joint is in a line with the apex of the styloid process of the ulna. The Joints and the Ligaments of the Hand. These comprise— The Joints and Ligaments of the Carpus. Those of the Carpo-Metacarpal Joint. Those of the Inter-Metacarpal Joints. Those of the Metacarpo-Phalangeal Joints. Those of the Inter-Phalangeal Joints. The Joints and Ligaments of the Carpus include the structures uniting the bones in each row, and those that unite the two carpal rows. The bones of the first row of the carpus are united on the dorsal surface by a ligament placed lietween the scaphoid and the semilunar bones, by one between the semilunar and the cuneiform, and by a third an interosseous ligament—placed near the dorsal surface, and uniting the last-named bones. On the palmar surface the bones are united by three bands, stretching from the scaphoid to the semilunar bones, and from the semilunar to the cuneiform. The bones of the second row are united by similar bands to the foregoing, situated on the dorsal and the palmar surfaces. These pass between the os magnum and its associated bones, the trapezoid bands being especially powerful. The pisiform bone is remarkable among its fellows in being isolated from the synovial membrane of the rest of the carpus. The bone is held to the ulna by the internal lateral ligament, and to the fifth metacarpal bone and the hooked-process of the unciform bone by three stout ligaments. Viewed as a whole the ligaments of the carpus are stronger where they unite the bones of the rows than where they unite the parts of the intercarpal joint. The ligaments of the ulnar side are stouter than are those of the radial. The joint between the two carpal rows is convex on its proximal surface, where for the radial third it is composed of the distal surface of the scaphoid bone, and concave for the ulnar two-thirds throuo-h the lateral surface of the scaphoid bone, and the distal surfaces of the semilunar and the cuneiform bones. The distal surface is - concave at the lateral (radial) third, where it is made up by the proximal facets of the trapezium and the trapezoid bone; it is convex at the median (ulnar) two-thirds where the distal sur- faces of the OS magnum and the unciform bones unite to form it. The last-named portion presents well- defined lateral facets. The two rows are united on the palmar surface by an external lateral ligament extending between the scaphoid and the trapezium, as well as by a second EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXIX. Fig. 1. Tlie elbow-joint, seen from in front. Fig. 2. Tlie wrist-joint, seen from in front. Fig. 3. The elbow-joint, seen from the median side. Fig. 4. The wrist-joint, seen from beliind. Fig. 5. The carpal and metacarpo-phalangeal synovial sacs.