THE S KULL. 151 Remarks.—For all practical purposes, the basilar process and the body of the sphenoid bone form one structure, which may be called the cranio-basic axis. The spongy tissue here situate is often the seat of ostitis. It is found by surgical writers to be liable to caries, particularly that portion of it composing the body of the sphenoid bone. Caries originating in this locality will often involve the nasal chamber and ex- cite inflammation of the plaarynx, into which chamber particles of bone may be discharged. Disease rarely attacks both base and vault in the same subject. If the vault is involved, the base es- capes, and vice versa. Pressure exerted from the accumulation of fluid in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, as from hydrocephalus, creates distdrtion of the sides of the middle cerebral fossa, and, if the condition of the sutures permit, rotation of the temporal bone out- ward and downward, with resultant deformation of the basis of the skull and the side of the face. In such cases the external meatus lies on the base of the skull close to the occipital condyles, and a lateral pouch encroaches upon the sides of the face.^ In cretinism the deformations are in their initial forms basal, and pertain to errors of development and trophic change in the bones arising from cartilage at the cranio-basic axis. The cancellated structure of the basilar process of the occipital bone is exaggerated; the sphenoidal sinus is enlarged or malformed; the dorsum sellai is steep; and the inclination of the plane of the basi-axis is variously changed from the normal plane. Accessory to these deviations, and in a measure dependent on them, ensue modified facial proportions and dental irregularity.^ THE CRANIO-FACIAL, OR INTERMEDIATE PORTION OF THE SKULL. The union of the cranium and the face is effected at four places: at the zygoma, at the junction of the malar and temporal bones; at the outer wall of the orbit, at the junction of the frontal and malar bones; at the pterygo-maxillary junction, between the superior maxilla, palatal, and sphenoid bones; and finally at the junction between the vomer, the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, and the bones articulating therewith (figs. 1 and 2, Plate XXIY.). Eesulting from these lines of union a region is imperfectly > Prescott Hewutt, St. George's Hosp. Rep., i., 1866, 25, figs. ^ F. V. Zillner, Nora Acta, 1. c, xxvii., with figures ; R. Vir- chow, Untorsuchungeii uber die Eutwickelung des Schiidelgrundes, 1857. defined on the exterior base of the skull, which may receive the name of the cranio-facial region^ since its parts cannot be defined without including bones common to both the cranium and the face. This region lies medianly to the zygomatic arch, and embraces two fossae, the zygomatic fossa and the si')he7io-maxillary space (fig. 1, Plate XXIV.); and two fissures, the pteryyo-maxillary and the spheno-maxil- lary. The zygomatic fossa is bounded in front by a line produced downward from the under free border of the malar process of the superior maxilla; behind by the posterior free edge of the external pterygoid plate; below by the alveolar process posterior to the second molar tooth ; and above by the ridge separating the Temporal from the External Pterygoid muscles. The bottuni of the fossa is composed of the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, and the outer surface of the ex- ternal pterygoid plate. Above it admits the hori- zontal purtion of the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. It is continuous above with the temporal fossa and the orbit; behind with the exterior base of the skull; below, when the lower jaw is in position, with the parts about the coronoid process of the lower jaw ; and medianly with the spheno-maxillary space. The spheno-maxillary space (spheno-maxillary fossa) is the space between the free anterior surface of the upper half of the pterygoid process behind; the median part of the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, and a small portion of the orbital process of the palatal bone in front; and the outer wall of the nasal chamber (where it is defined by the thin and wealc vertical plate of the palatal bone) within. The space has the form of a narrow triangle whose base is upward, where it is continuous with tlie orbit at the posterior end of the spheno-maxillary fissure. It is tijus limited above by the spheno-maxillary fissure; while ih.e pterygo-maxillary fissure limits it laterallv. While the two last-named fissures aid in limiting the space, they serve as means of communication with the orbit and zygomatic fossae respectively. The median surface or floor of the space joins the nasal chamber by means of the spheno-palatine foramen. The spheno-maxillary fissure results from the for- mation of the orbito-temporal septum. It has no existence in animals in which the orbit and temporal fossaj are continuous, as in the dog and the lower animals generally. At the base of the skull the position of the cranio- facial portion is indicated by the junction of the vomer with the body of the sphenoid. Clinical writers recognize that the relations of the rustrum of the