136 THE BONES. . OCO^OOC a rnontli after he Lad recoverecl from an attack of measles, an offensive discliarge was announced from the right nostril. The right eje became prominent, and finally protruded conspicuously. The cornea sloughed, and the globe gave way. The right maxilla, the malar, and part of the sphenoid bone be- came necrosed. The child died at the end of eleven weeks of phlebitis of the ophthalmic vein, involving the base of the brain. PALATAL BONE. The palatal bone (tigs. 5 and 6, Plate XX.) occupies the space which would otherwise exist between the superior maxilla and the pterygoid process. It is placed to the outer side of the nasal chamber and to the posterior part of the floor of the nose and roof of the.mouth. It enters also into the composition of the floor of the orbit; and it assists in closing the posterior ethmoidal cells, and the inner border of the spheno- maxillary space and tissure. It is in the form of the letter L, with the angle produced downwards and the vertical member notched above. In addition to a palatal and vertical plate, it presents a pyramidal, an orbital, and a sphenoidal process. The palatal plate corresponds to the plate of the same name of the superior maxilla. It is concave above to form part of the floor of the nose, and is nearly flat below, but smooth to enter into the con- struction of the roof of the mouth. Its anterior bor- der is serrated for articulation with the palatal plate of the superior maxilla; the posterior is con- cave, to form the posterior border of the hard palate. Its inner border, when united with that of the oppo- site side, is produced posteriorly to form the posterior nasal spme. The junction of the horizontal and ver- tical portions of the bone is marked by an opening— the posterior palatine cana l—and by a sharp ledge of bone extending inward from the base of the pyra- midal process, to give attachment to the palatal apo- neurosis. The vertical plate extends from the floor of the nose to the level of the spheno-palatine notch. It is smooth externally, when it forms the internal boun- dary of the spheno maxillary fossa. Internally it is marked by two crests—the upper for the middle tur- binated, the lower for the inferior turbinated bone. It is grooved along its posterior border (forming the pjosterior palatine groove) for the posterior palatine artery and nerve. Two processes arise from the termination of the vertical plate—the spihenoidal and the orbital. Of these, the sphenoidal appears to be the continuation of the vertical plate. It passes upward and back- ward as a thin wafer-like lamella, and, curving in- ward at its extremity, lies along the inner border of the base of the internal pterygoid plate to join the vomer. It thus may be said to enter into the con- struction of the roof of the nose. The orbital process is more robust, and is hollow. It forms the anterior boundary of the spheno-palatine notch, and enters into the floor of the orbit posteriorly and the spheno- maxillary fossa. It articulates with the superior max- illa, the sphenoid, and the ethmoid bones. l^he pyramidal process or tuberosity is an elongated wedge arising at the union of the vertical with the palatal plates. It is directed outward and backward to be received into the pterygoid notch of the sphenoid bone. It is marked for articulation with the internal and external pterygoid plates. Between these is a- smooth surface which enters into the pterygoid fossa. The spheno-palatine notch, which lies between the or- bital and sphenoidal processes, is converted into a fora- men by the sphenoid bone, or by a plate of the palatal uniting the processes. Articulation.—The palatal bone articulates with the bone of the opposite side, and with the superior maxilla, the ethmoid, the sphenoid, the inferior turbi- nated bones, and the vomer. Development.—The palatal bone arises from a single centre of ossification which appears at the seventh or eighth week. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XX. Fig. 1. The ethmoid bone, seen from the latei-al aspect. For " Christa galli" read " crista galli." Fig. 2. The vomer, seen from the side. Fig. 3. The superior maxilla, seen from in front and the side. Fig. 4. The superior maxilla, seen from the median aspect. Fig. 5. The palatal bone, seen from the lateral aspect. Fig. 6. The palatal bone, seen from the median aspect.