124 THE BONES. OOO^OCx; roughened for tlie attachment of the pharyngeal aponeurosis; anterior]3f it is smooth for the reception of the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. The tyvijMnic portion of the bone lies wholly upon its under surface. It is of an irregular shape, and composed entirely of compact tissue. When studied from without it presents a U-shaped portion wedged between the mastoid and tlie post-glenoid processes, limiting three sides of the large opening leading to the external auditory meatus, and thence to the tym- panic membrane. The fourth and upper side of the meatus is formed by the squama. The curve of the U is much roughened, and produced downward. Tlie tympanic division extends inward, and is seen on the base of the skull as a narrow compressed lamina, which insheathes the base of the styloid portion. Hence this aspect is called the vaginal process, which may be said to limit the glenoid region posteriorly. It is concave for the reception of the post-mandibular portion of the parotid gland. It terminates some- what abruptly in a point opposed to the spinous pro- cess of the sphenoid bone at the beginning of the sulcus for the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. In narrow long skulls this point is often pro- duced downwards as a spine. The floor of the external auditory meatus answers pretty nearly to the level of the base of the skull. The styloid portion is composed of two separate pieces—the styloid and the tympano-hyal. The sty- loid is an elongated cylindroid spine, having an average length of an inch, and ai'ises directly behind the vaginal process. It gives origin to the styloid group of muscles and to the stylo-hyoid ligament. The tympano-hyal is an unimportant ossicle placed between the base of the styloid and the stylo-mastoid foramen. — The styloid process may attain great length, when it will complicate a dissection for re- moval of tumors of the side of the neck. The mastoid portion, seen from without, lies between the supra-mastoid ridge and the masto-occipital and masto-parietal borders. It is composed of spongy and compact tissue, and is derived from an extension outward of the primordial petrous portion joined with an outward extension of the squama. It is divided into a mastoid and a post-mastoid region by the late- ral extension of the superior semicircular line of the occipital bone. The region, in great part, pertains to the occiput, with the curves of wdiich it is continuous. Laterally, the mastoid region presents a large nipple- shaped process, the mastoid process, for the origin of the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid and the Splenius Capitis muscles. In the majority of skulls an irregular de- pression is seen extending along the outer surface of the process. This marks the position of the primor- dial squamoso-petrosal suture. Behind the mastoid process lies the digastric fossa, for the origin of the Digastric muscle. Extending parallel with its outer side is the groove for the occipital artery. Above the mastoid process lies the mastoid foramen for the trans- mittal of a vein inwards to join the lateral sinus. Medianly the mastoid division lies behind the pe- trous portion, and is marked Avith a deep broad sulcus for the lateral sinus. The union of the squamoso- parietal and masto-parietal borders exhibits a well- marked retiring angle for the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Development. — The temporal bone arises both from membrane and from cartilage: the squamous and tympanic portions from ihe farmer; the petrous por- tion and styloid process from the latter. Ossification is first announced in the squama as early as the third month. Shortly after this the process begins in the tympanic portion. Some obscurity exists respecting the development of the petrous portion, which usually is stated to arise at about the fifth or the sixth month from a number of minute granules; but from what is seen in lower animals there appear to be three sepa- rate ossicles in the bony envelope to the labyrinth. It is probable that in man more than three definite centres exist, but that they early coalesce. At birth the temporal bone is nearly complete, the several portions having united, but the "mastoid process has not appeared, the styloid is yet cartilaginous, and the auditory meatus is shallow, since the tympanic portion is as yet a mere rim of bone. Eemarks.—The temporal bone is the seat of many pathological conditions, to appi'cciate which an exact knowledge of anatomy is required. M. Chassaignac' describes a case in which the right condyle of the lower jaw was driven into the skull by a fall from a great height upon the chin. The right condyle was found in the autopsy pressing against the middle lobe of the brain, in which was a large abscess.—Fracture of the vaginal process may ensue upon the lower jaw being driven directly backward.—-But by hxr the greatest importance is to be attached to the complica- tions arising from aural disease. Mr. Toyubee^ has said: "Each of the cavities of the ear has its par- ticular division of the encephalon to which it com- ■ ' Plaies de Tete, 158. 2 Med.-Cliir. Trans., xxiv.