THE I posterior of these ligaments, while thus checking the movement downward, will cause a slight degree of motion to take place at the symphysis. The latter, therefore, bears a direct relation to the amount of pressure forward of the sacrum against and between the innominate bones.—The lower part of the sacrum is so firmly fixed to the hip-bones by the sacro-sciatic ligaments {i.e., on a plane below that of the symphysis pubis) as not to permit of motion. The pelvis when deformed, as in rickets, exhibits the greatest degree of deformity at and above the symphysis,—a result, it is thought, of the difference of effect of sacral pres- sure upon the innominate bone at and above the pubis, as contrasted with pressure below this bone. In standing, the weight of the trunk rests upon the inferior extremities at the acetabula, and upon lines extending thence to the sacrum. The arch defined by connecting these lines has received the name of the cutylo-sacral arch. The line extending from the acetabula round the anterior surface of the true pelvis has received the name of the cotylo-puhic tie. In sit- ting, the weight of the body is borne by the tuberosi- ties of the ischia, and is thence transmitted by arched lines to the sacrum. The sum of these lines has re- ceived the name of the ischio-sacral arch, and the line extending thence to the pubis the name of the ischio- pubic tie.^ THE FEMUR. The femur or thigh-bone (Plate XXXITI.) is at once the longest and the largest bone in the body. It articu- lates above with the innominate bone and below with the tibia and the patella. When the lower extremity of the femur is placed with the condyles resting on the same plane, as in articulation, the axis of the shaft is oblique to a line dropped through the centre of the trunk. The bone is divided into a shaft and two extremi- ties. The shaft is massive, compact, moderately curved upon itself from above downward, and twisted at its upper third. It presents in front and at the sides convex surfaces; of these the posterior is roughened above and ridged for muscular attachments, but is fiat below where it enters into the popliteal space. Cylindroid or prismatic, with rounded angles at the middle third, the shaft is compressed, widened, and irregular both at the upper and at the lower thirds. ■—The middle third of the shaft is smooth in front, and narrowed behind to form a prominent ridge called the EMUR. 189 linea aspera, which presents for examination two lips and an intermediate space. The lateral (outer) lip, the more prominent of the two, receives the inser- tion of the central portion of the Vastus Externus; the m.edian (inner) lip receives the corresponding part of the Vastus Internus; the intermediate space is occu- pied by the insertion in part of the Adductor Magnus muscle.—The upper third of the shaft, as already mentioned, appears to be slightly twisted upon the lower two-thirds. It is robusf and subcylindrical, and presents a smooth anterior surface, somewhat flattened, and a rough posterior surface, upon which is a ridge continuous with the linea aspera. The lateral lip of this ridge is designed for the insertion of the Vastus Externus, and is directed nearly verti- cally upward to the lateral aspect of the base of the lesser trochanter. Still further to the lateral side of this line, namely at a point about two inches below the upper end of the shaft, is seen a deep narrow de- pression for the insertion of the Gluteus Maximus. The continuation of the median lip becomes, as it ap- pears upon the median surface of the bone, the spiral line, which winds upward and inward round the lesser trochanter to the front of the shaft, where it ends in the tubercle, a rounded prominence situated at the ante- rior border of the great trochanter. The lower part of the spiral line in front of the lesser trochanter re- ceives the insertion of the Pectineus muscle. W. Roger Williams^ proposes the name of inferior cervical tuhercle for a moderate elevation at the middle of the spiral line to which the Vastus Internus muscle effects im- portant attachments. As distinguished from this the some writer calls the tubercle at the top of the spiral line the superior cervical lulercle. Above, the spiral line gives origin to the Vastus Internus muscle, and in frouu of the femur to the Crurajus. In the space defined by the lines above described are inserted the Adductor Longus and the Adductor Brevis muscles.— The lotver third of the shaft is much broader than the upper, and is marked laterally and behind by the lines of the linea aspera as they pass to the condyles, the external of the two lines being the more prominent. The median line near its point of separation from the linea aspera is interrupted by the femoral artery as it winds round the femur to become the popliteal. Upon this line above thi enternal condyles is a minute spur- like tulercle corresponding in position to the highest point of the patellar groove as well as to the junction of the shaft with the epiphysis. It is designed for the insertion of the long tendon of the Adductor Mag- ' John Wood, art. Pelvis, Cyclopwdia of Anatomy and Physiology (Supplement), 1859. ' Journ. Anat. and Phys. 1879.