LIGAMENTS OF THE ELBOW. 221 band above, and by the fibrous extension of the tendons of tlie Latissimus Dorsi and the Teres Major muscle at the floor and sides. A delicate fold of the synovial membrane assists the long head of the Biceps mus- cle in retaining its position in the bicipital groove. Humphry says that the head of the humerus in dislocation of the shoulder is sometimes received within the bulging cvX-de-sac of the synovial mem- brane under the Subscapularis. The Arteries of the joint are branches of the ante- rior and the posterior circumflex and suprascapular. The Nerves are branches of the circumflex and the suprascapular. Kemarks.—The movements of the shoulder-joint are so combined with the functions of the shoulder muscle that it is impossible to disassociate them. The chief agency, here as in other diarthrodia, in the main- tenance of contact between the humerus and the scap- ula, is atmospheric pressure. Marked rotation of the humerusoutward in the subject will cause separation of the surfaces, when the head of the humerus will fall away from the scapula. Eotation of the arm inward restores the normal contact between the two. This observation, made on the authority of Henke, may be received with a single qualifying fact, that the de- scription is known to be true of the dead subject only.— It is more than probable, even if the original non- elastic muscles about the joint interfere with their physiological uses in maintaining contact, that inward rotation is in many features distinct from outward rotation. The outer (lateral) half of the head of the humerus when covered with cartilage differs from the median. The former is the more convex side of the surface, and ends abruptly at the anatomical neck ; the latter, in addition to being flatter, ends impercep- tibly at the neck, and is continuous at its borders with the capsule. The line separating these two surfaces is well defined by the coraco-humeral liga- ment, which answers to the greatest length of the head of the humerus obliquely downward and outward. On the posterior surface of the joint the scapular head of the Triceps lies nearly in a similar line. The muscles strengthening the joint and assisting in main- taining contact are, apart from the scapular muscles proper, the Deltoid, the Biceps, the Coraco-brachialis, the Triceps, and upper part of the Serratus Magnus. Unaided contraction of the Deltoid tilts the head of the humerus downward from the glenoid cavity—in which action the Serratus Magnus and the Pectoralis Major assist.^ ' Duclionne, Physiologic des Mouvenients. The joint is strengthened in such movements by the Coraco-Brachialis, and the scapular head of the Ti'iceps. For the mechanism between the humerus and the acromion, see W. Ruge.' The Costo-scapular Joint. Lender this head Lusch- ka^ has described a bursa-like joint between the scapula and the third and fourth ribs of the left side. R.. Hesse* gives a case in illustration of the presence of this joint in a man aged twenty-three, who com- plained of a grating sensation in moving the left arm, and of slight pain at the junction of the second and third ribs with the sternum. Noisy crepitation was readily observed upon motion of the scapula. Remarks.—The coraco-clavicular ligament is of enormous strength. It limits rotation of the scapula forward and inward, and is the chief agency by which elevation of the scapula is effected by muscles inserted into the clavicle, namely, the Sterno-Cleido Mastoid and the Trapezius. The Elbow-.joint and Ligaments. The parts entering into the elbow-joint are the trochlear surface and the radial head of the humerus, the greater and lesser sigmoid cavities of the ulna, and the head and the neck of the radius. These parts are inclosed in a common capsular ligament which is notably thickened at the sides ; but it is thin both in front and behind, and is intimately attached to the annular ligament holding the head of the radius in position. The parts to be studied, therefore, at the elbow- joint are— The Capsular Ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament. The External Lateral Ligament. The Orbicular Ligament. The Synovial Membrane. The Capsular Ligament is very loose, though on the whole thin and of varying thickness. It extends in front from above the coronoid fossa to the coronoid process and the annular ligament, and behind from above the olecranon fossa to the olecranon. Anteri- orly it is stronger at the middle than at the sides, and is covered by the Brachialis-Anticus muscle. Behind it is relatively strong above the tip of the olecranon, but very weak and bursa-like at the side, where it is composed of transverse fibres extending from the ole- 1 Z.'it. fiir Rat. Med., 1859, 258. 2 Prag<'r Vierteljalirschr , cvii. 1870. 3 N. Y. Med. Journ., 1871, 730.