160 in the upper ribs, and is almost entirely absent in the eleventh and the twelfth. It is a flattened or irregu- larly prismatic process; smooth within and roughened without for the attachment of the middle costo-trans- verse ligament. Its upper border is slightly elevated from the seventh to the tenth ribs to give attach- ment to the anterior costo-transverse ligament.—The hibercle lies at the junction of the neck with the shaft. An articular facet is here seen which looks downward and outward to articulate with the transverse process of the vertebra to which the rib belongs. To the outer side and above the facet is a rough eminence for attachment of the posterior costo-transverse liga- ment.—The body of the rib is that portion lying be- tween the tubercle and the sternal extremity. It is smooth on its inner side, but roughened on its outer, for the attachments of muscles, chief among which are slips of origin of the Serratus Magnus. Its upper border is thin and compressed in the first, the second, the eleventh, and the twelfth ribs, but rounded for the remaining ones. In all, the upper border presents a roughened surface for the attachment of the Inter- costal muscles. The foiwer 5or(ier is grooved (see Inter- costal Muscles) from about the angle to near the anterior extremity for the reception of the intercostal vessels and nerve. The upper edge of the groove gives origin to the Internal Intercostal muscle; the lower edge, which is slightly produced, gives origin to the External Intercostal muscle.-—-The angle is that por- tion of the rib in connection with the insertion of slips of the Sacro-Lumbalis muscle. It determines the limits of the medio-dorsal aspect of the thorax, i.e., the space limited by points at which the ribs are abruptly directed forward. Almost absent on the first rib, the angle is slightly developed on the second, third, and fourth ribs; it increases in size until the eleventh is attained, beyond which it again decreases, and is entirely absent on the twelfth.—The s'ernal extremity of the rib is broader than the body, excepting from the ninth to the twelfth ribs, where it is smaller. The borders of this extremity are obtuse; the terminal surface is concave for the corresponding costal carti- lage. The sternal end of the costal curve has been called, on perhaps insufficient grounds, the anterior angle.^ The Twist of the Rib.—The general form of the rib, while arched outward and forward, is curved down- ward, so that the sternal end is lower than the verte- bral. As the ribs increase in length from above downward the tendency of the inner surface near the vertebral end to be inclined downward and inward is decided. In common with this the surface about the middle of the body of the bone is inclined downward and outward. The gradual change from one to the other inclination, conjoined with the tendency con- stantly present of the sternal end of the bone to as- sume a position below the plane of the vertebra to which it belongs—a tendency best seen in the ribs from the fifth to the ninth-—-gives a spiral shape to the bone which has been described as the twist of the rib. This shape is more evident in the isolated bone than in articulation. Peculiar Kibs.-—The foregoing description is appli- cable to a rib situated between the third and the tenth. It would not apply to the others, for the following considerations:— The first rib is placed more horizontally than the other ribs, and yields a shorter curve. Its outer sur- face looks upward, and its inner surface looks down- ward. The head bears a single articular facet, and articulates with the first dorsal vertebra alone. Its upper surface is marked by a faint ridge which termi- nates in a tubercle upon its upper border for the inser- tion of the Scalenus Anticus muscle. In front of this is a broad shallow groove for the subclavian vein ; behind it lies a second deeper groove for the subclavian arterj^. To the outer side of the groove for the sub- clavian artery is a rough surface for insertion of the Scalenus Medius muscle. The tubercle of the first rib is the largest of any of the ribs, and is firmly sup- ' Cniveilhier, Anatomy, 1. c, Birkett, Trans. Path. Soc. of Lond., 1853, 105. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXVI. Fig. 1. The clavicle, seen from beneath. Fig. 2. The clavicle, seen from behind. The nutritious foramen lies directly above the letters "Fig. 2." Fig. 3. The clavicle, seen from in front. For " sterno-mastoid" read " steeno-cleido-mas- TOID." Fig. 4. The first rib, seen from above. Fig. 5. The second rib, seen from above.