235 THE ANKLE-JOINT. o-OO^OKX- The inferior ligaments are three in number— The Inferior Anterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament. The Inferior Posterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament. The Inferior Interosseous Membrane. The Inferior Anterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament is of a triangular shape, and is attached to the anterior border of the tibia just above the surface articulating with the astragalus. It passes obliquely downward and outward to the anterior part of the external malleolus. This ligament projects a short distance, viz., about two lines beyond the articular surfaces it serves to unite. It is here covered with cartilage, and is continuous with the ankle-joint. It is some- times composed of from two to three distinct fas- ciculi. The Inferior Posterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament is shorter than the anterior. It passes from the tibia downward and outward to be fixed at the internal border of the groove upon the posterior part of the external malleolus. Both of the inferior ligaments are of great strength, and serve not only to sustain the fibula in apposition to the distal end of the tibia, but to assist the proximal end as well. The Inferior Interosseous Ligament is triangular in form, with its base directed downward. Its oblique fibres intimately unite the tibia and the fibula between their contiguous surfaces at the lower three-fifths of their shafts. It is continuous above with the inter- osseous membrane. The small synovial surface is continuous with the ankle-joint. The tibia and the fibula in addition to the above joints are connected by the interosseous membrane. The Interosseous Membrane. The Interosseous Membrane (superior interosseous ligament) (fig. 1, Plate XLII.) passes between the external border of the tibia and the external ridge of the fibula. It is broader above than below, but does not entirely occupy the interosseous space. The deficiency at the upper part of the space permits the passage of the anterior tibial artery, while the one below accommodates the peroneal artery and vein in their passage from behind forward. Remarks.—The movements of the superior articu- lation are much freer than those of the inferior. The lateral motion of the fibula against the tibia is greater than the disto-proximal motion. The latter, indeed, is of necessity slight, owing to the overlapping of the tibial condyle at the superior fibular facet, the shortness of the fibres of the inferior group of liga- ments, and the strength of the middle external lateral fascicle. Nerves. The superior tibio-fibular joint receives its nervous supply posteriorly from a twig from the posterior tibial nerve as it supplies the Popliteus muscle, and anteriorly from a recurrent branch from the peroneal nerve. The Ankle-Joint. The parts entering into the ankle-joint (fig. 1, 4, Plate XLII.) are the tibia, the fibula, and the astra- galus. The union of the tibia and fibula forms a sort of arch or mortise having a greater breadth from side to side than from before backward to receive the proximal surface of the astragalus. The antero-posterior curve in the last-named sur- face is greater than that derived from the tibia and the fibula, so that all of the astragalar surface is not in contact with the mortise at one time. The pos- terior end being about one-sixth smaller than the anterior, it follows that the lateral borders slightly diverge from before backward. In addition to this the sides of the astragalar surface are abrupt. The inner, the shorter of the two, is inclined somewhat outward; the outer is abruptly deflected outward at its lower end; the external malleolus may thus im- pinge upon the astragalus when the trunk is in the erect position. The posterior portion of the superior astragalar surface exhibits a distinctive facet for articulation with the surface of the inferior interosseous ligament entering into the joint. The ankle-joint is composed of— The Internal Lateral Ligament. The External Lateral Ligament. The Synovial Membrane. The Internal Lateral Ligament (deltoid ligament), the stoutest of the ligaments of the ankle-joint, is a broad, coarsely fasciculated structure attached above to the internal malleolus, and below, by a broad line, to the astragalus, the calcaneum, and the scaphoid bone. It consists of two layers—a superficial and deep. The superficial and larger layer is attached above to the apex and the sides of the malleolus, and below to the points already mentioned. The ckej) layer is much shorter than the superficial. It passes downward and backward to connect the deep portion of the internal malleolus Avith the astragalus. The superficial layer is divided into two more or less distinct anterior and posterior fasciculi. The anterior fasciculus is thinner than the posterior. It is attached above to the anterior border of the internal malleolus, and below to the inferior calcaneo-sca-