110 THE BONES. OOO^OO^ Transition vbrtebtij^.—'While the characters of the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar are quite distinctive, the upper dorsal resemble the cervical, and the lower the lumbar. Thus the first and second dorsal verte- bra; have bodies recalling those of the cervical; in the tenth to the twelfth dorsal vertebrae, the rudiments of the accessory and mammary processes are present; and the floating rib suggests a lumbar transverse pro- cess which is merely unfi.\ed. DEVELOPMENT. Each vertebra arises from three main centres of ossification,—one for the body of the bone, and one for each of the two lateral portions, including the laminie. The centres for the latter appear about the seventh week, and the centre for the body about the eighth week. These parts are separate at birth. In addition to the above an epiphyseal centre arises within the spinous process and the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrie about the sixteenth year. In the lumbar vertebrte both of the mammillary processes receive a similar centre. The body is furnished with two accessory centres—one on either side—at about the twenty-first year. The development of the atlas and axis differs from the foresfoino;.—The atlas is without a distinct cen- tre for the body. The two centres of ossification within the laminee extend across the cartilaginous anterior arches, one or two inconstant centres appear- ing therein at about the first year.—-The axis arises from a centre for each lateral mass; one for the body, which appears at the sixth month; and two for the odontoid process, which appear at about the same time. These are united to the body near the third year. An additional accessory centre is seen occu- pying the odontoid process. Tiie development of the anterior tubercle of the cervical transverse processes may differ from that of tlie other vertebrae by reason of the morphological relation existing between this tubercle and one of the series of ribs. The tendency of the tubercle to have a distinct development from the remainder of the transverse process increases as the dorsal vertebrse are approached. The seventh cervical usually pos- sesses a distinct centre in this process. Failure of union between this centre and the rest of the bone gives origin to the so-called cervical rib (see p. 000). The transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae may remain distinct from the body of the bone in the manner just indicated. Embryology demonstrates that the vertebral column arises from two distinct portions of the dorsal layer of the embryo. The bodies of the vertebras arise from beneath the medullary groove in and about the ele- ments of the chorda dorsalis, called the protovertebrae. The elements of the future lamina; lie within the medullary folds at the side of the groove. It is plain that the method of growth of the body is different from that of the laminas, and that the errors of devel- opment witnessed in the latter will be the result of the imperfect approximation between the right and the left sets. The laminas most frequently failing to unite with one another are at that portion of the column which attains perfection last, namely, the lower por- tion of the lumbar series. This defect of union is known under the name of spina bifida. THE CEEVICAL VERTEBRAE. The cervical vertebrae are the vertebrae of the neck. The hotly of each cervical vertebra (fig. 1, Plate XIII.), excepting that of the atlas and axis, is broader from side to side than from before backwards, and is slightly inclined downward and forward. The upper surface is concave from side to side, and possesses an elevated lateral border. The lower surface is slightly concave from before backward, and yields a pro- nounced anterior border (fig. 1, Plate XV.). Its lateral edges appear to a trifling extent upon the sides of the body as shallow depressions. Each lamina (Fig. 67) springs from the body at about its middle. Tlie pudicle is rounded, and is di- Fig. 67. 1. TliP hndy. 2. The vertolirnl Ciinal, formed at tlie sides hy the lamiure. 3. The pedicle. 4. The laminw, converging to form the hilid spine. 5. The transverse process. 6. The vertehral foramen. 7. The snperior articular pro- cess. 8. The inferior articular process. The superior notch is indicated as the space hetween the body and the superior articular process. rected outward until it reaches the mass between the articular processes. Beyond the articular processes the lamina becomes thin and compressed, inclines backward, joining the lamina of the opposite side to form the bifid s^^me, and to give shape to the some- what triangular vertebral canal. Lying above the