THE DOESAL VERTEBE^, 115 • ^OO^OO.: form the anterior border of vertebral foramen. In the last four the posterior surfaces are flat. The transverse sections of the bodies of the upper and lower vertebras exhibit oval figures, while those of the middle are triangular, with sub-rounded angles. The anterior surface of each body is some- times called the visceral surface from its relation to the thoracic viscera, when the posterior becomes the vertebral^ or spinal surface. The upper and lower surfaces are not parallel, but may be slightly inclined toward one another. The depressitm for the rib is variable in shape, but is for the most part of a modified semilunar figure. The upper nine vertebrte have for this purpose two demi-facets, one at the upper at the junction of the body and the lamina, at the other at the lower border of the body near the vertebral border. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs the single facet is placed more upon the lamina than in the others. The pe(//c/e arises from the body at its upper half and at its side. While the lower border is rounded, the upper is sharp. At the same time the upper notch is shallow, and looks upward and inward, while the inferior is deep. In the first dorsal vertebra the pedicles are cylindrical. The upper notch is deep and semicircular, and looks upward. The laminse are broad and thin, and soon unite to form the broadly-based spinous process. At the pedicles the laminaj are horizontal; but beyond the superior articular process of each side the laminae are deflected abruptly downwards on the same plane with that of the spinous process. The superior articular processes are both nearly on the same plane with the laminse, and look backward. The inferior articular processes look forward, excepting those of the twelfth vertebra, which look laterally. The so-called transverse process is a conspicuous robust projection, nearly as broad as the body. It is directed laterally and a little backward. Its anterior surface is rounded by a facet for articulation with the cor- responding rib. The true transverse process, viz., that which is homologous with the posterior tubercle of the cervical vcrtebrte, is not seen in the dorsal ver- tebra3 until the tenth and eleventh are reached as already mentioned. In the lumbar vcrtebraj they again appear. The Dorsal Vertebb^ as a whole.—When the twelve dorsal vertebrae are articulated they are seen to form a column whose anterior surface is concave. The spinous processes, notwithstanding their rela- tively great length, project not directly backward, but obliquely downward and backward. The laminae thus overlap—less at the beginning and the end of the column than toward its middle. A degree of strength is thus secured to the dorsal region over and above that secured by the articular surfaces against one another, while the vertebral canal receives an additional protection. The ribs still further aid in protecting and fixing the dorsal region, which is as a result the best preserved from injury, while the most rigid, of any portion of the spine. Exostoses of the vertebral canal are rare. Humphry^ mentions a case in which a bony outgrowth had projected from the hinder surface of one of the dorsal vertebras and had pressed upon the cord, inducing paralysis of the lower extremities. THE LUMBAE YEETEBE^E. The lumbar vertebrte are the vertebras of the loins. Each bone (figs. 7 and 8, Plate XIIL) possesses a massive body, which is wider from side to side than from before backwards. Its nutritive foramina are more conspicuous than in other vertebrte. These are especially well developed upon the posterior surface, where they form two openings for the basi-vertebral veins upon either side of a faint median ridge. The latter is often absent, when the openings are confluent. The laminae arc correspondingly massive with the body. Tlie pedicles arise from the upper half or two- thirds of the body. They are short, but heavy, and support the transverse and superior articular pro- cesses. These latter structures may be studied in the following order: The transverse process (homoio^ons. with a rudimentary rib) arises from the outer side of the pedicle at the base of the superior articular process. It is broad and compressed laterally, and is directed outward and backward. The superior articu- lar process presents a concave facet directed inwards and backwards. The outer surface of the process yields at its posterior border a rounded eminence pro- jecting backward beyond the facet, the rnammillary process for the origin of the slip of the Multifides Spinas muscle. Behind the base of the transverse process is seen the accessory process^ which is a faint ridge-like projection representing a rudiment of the transverse process of the dorsal vertebrte. The spinous process is very broad, directed horizon- tally backward from the lamina?. It is thin above, broad below, whence its contours are continuous with the inferior articular processes. The latter are nearer ' Human Skeletou, 157.