159 THE TRUNK. »oo^oo« often longer than the right that some authors have described such a condition as normah—The hyoid bone is raised in the second portion of the act of deg- lutition, but falls at the end of that act. It is depressed by the action of the Sterno-Thyroid. the Tliyro-Hyoid, the Orno-Hvoid, and the Sterno-Hyoid muscles. The greater cornua serve to keep the laryugo-pharynx patulous in the way that the blades of a glove-stretcher act on a finger of a glove. Directly behind the body lie the fatty fibrous tissues about the base of the epi- glottis.—From the movability of the bone it is capable of being displaced by tumors. Gibbs^ describes a tumor arising from the thyroid cartilage, producing such displacement. Eetro-pharyngeal abscess at the portion of the pharynx answering to the plane of the hyoid bone has also been known to displace the cornu of the corresponding side, and to produce conspicuous deflection of the larynx from the median line.—Grasp- ing the throat at the position of the hyoid bone may, by the forcible approximation of the greater cornua toward each other, cause either fracture or disjunction of its several parts. The bone may be also fractured in execution by hanging. THE RIBS. The ribs (figs. 4 and 5, Plate XXVI.; fig. 3, Plate XXV.) are those curved flat bones extending from the spine to the costal cartilages. They are twelve in number, and form a series of narrow arches which make up the lateral, the posterior, and in part the anterior, boundaries of the thorax. These arches are either prolonged by the costal cartilages to the ster- num, when the ribs entering into them are called the true or sternal ribs, or they fail to join the sternum, when the ribs entering into them are called the false or asternal ribs. The true ribs are those included between the first and the seventh ; while the false ribs make up the remaining five. Of the latter the eighth, the ninth, and the tenth are connected by their costal cartilages, and are held to one another as well as to the cartilage of the seventh rib. The eleventh and twelfth ribs are without fixation, and are from this circumstance known as the floating ribs. At times the tenth costal cartilage remains unattached to the ninth, when the number of floating ribs is three. The classification of the ribs into the true and the false, and the restriction of the last two ribs to a separate group, are in some respects unsatisfactory. In a proper sense all the ribs are true ribs, since they ' Diseases of the Throat, 277. vary only, in .the single feature of tlie degree of fixa- tion of the anterior ends. Sibson^ very properly saj's that it is in the dead body only that the floating ribs" can be said to float; for in the living body they are steadied by powerful respiratory muscles. While the task of criticizing the nomenclature of the ribs is an easy one, attempts to improve upon the nomencla- ture have not been successful. Sibson^ proposes the term diajjhraf/matic rils to include the last four, since these are moved actively by the Diaphragm, the other ribs being termed by him the thoracic. Why all the ribs are not thoracic is not made clear by this arrange- ment, nor is it reasonable to omit the sixth and seventh from the diaphragmatic ribs. Since the first six ribs present convex lower bor- ders, give origin to the Pectoralis Major muscle (an elevator of the ribs), and move upward in inspiration; and since the last six ribs present concave lower bor- ders, give origin to the Diaphragm (a depressor of the ribs), and move downward in inspiration, no objection can be urged to the use of the term tipper rils'''' to designate the former group, or to the use of the term lower ribs''' to designate the latter. For clinical pur- poses this classification is all that is needed, and has at least the advantage of simplicity. At the same time it is convenient to retain the terms "true, false, and floating ribs," since they are separated from one another by trenchant and easily remembered characters. The ribs increase in size from the first to the eighth, and decrease from the ninth to the twelfth. Each rib presents for examination a head, or vertebral ex- tremity, a sternal or anterior extremity, a neck, a tubercle, a body, and an upper and a lower border. In addition, the majority of the ribs present an angle, and three articular facets; of the latter, two belong to the head, and one to the tubercle. The head or vertebral extremity is furnished with an articular surface, which, in all the ribs excepting the first, eleventh, and twelfth, yields two facets, the lower of which is the larger. A faint ridge [crista capi- tiili) separates the facets for the attachment of the interarticular ligament. The head of each of the ribs, as above limited, articulates Vv-ith a pair of vertebra as follows: first, with the body of the vertebra corre- sponding in number to that of the rib; and, secondly, with the body of the vertebra directly above it. The portion of the bone lying between the head and the tubercle is called the Jiech.—The neck is best developed ' Medical Anatomy, 18G9, col. 62. 3 L. c, 18U9, col. 02.