199 THE BONES OF THE FOOT. — ^-OO^OCx= neck anteriorly.—The lateral surface (outer) is in great part occupied by a facet. This is of a triangu- lar shape, whose convex base is proxinnal, and whose apex is directed slightly outward. In advance of the lateral surface is a depression for the anterior lateral ligament; while behind lies a groove for the posterior lateral ligament. In front of the facet the surface is directed obliquely outward and forward, to form the lateral boundary of the neck. At a corre- sponding point beneath is the notch for the inter- osseous ligament. Behind, is the edge of the surface articulating with the body of the calcaueum. To ascertain the side to which the astragalus belongs, place the bone with the superior facet up- ward ; the side on which the neck is least defined will indicate the side to which the bone belongs; or, the position being the same, the external malleolar facet will point toward the side to which the bone belongs. Structure.—The borders of the neck, both above and below, present a little compact tissue; elsewhere the bone is spongy. The lines of the laminae are ar- ranged in four sets. The first is composed of those finely textured cancelli underlying the proximal articular surface, and composing the bulk of the body of the bones; the second, of those passing from the posterior calcaneal surface, to join the first group; the third, of those stout, coarse lines extending directly backward from the scaphoid articular surface (the head) through the neck, to end abruptly against the first; and the fourth, of those weak lines passing obliquely upward and backward from that portion of the head in articulation with the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. The astragalus is weakest at the neck, where alone the third set of laminte exists; it is here that the bone is most frequently fractured. Eemaeks.—The changes in the foot after excision of the astragalus, together with the lower end of the fibula, in an instance recorded by Erichsen,^ were as follows : The foot was drawn up by the tendon of the Tibialis Anticus muscle, and was slightly everted, forming a variety of talijjes equinus. In another case of ex- cision^ the patient was able to walk three mouths afterward. The malleoli necessarily rest upon the calcaneum or the scaphoid bone. It is probable that in time a new joint may be formed between them and the bones of the leg; or anchylosis may ensue, as was found to be the case by E. Bellamy.^ The power of ' Med. Times and Gaz., Mar. 1860, 317. 2 Med. Times and Gaz., Mar. 20, l^GO. " Trans. Path. Soc. Loud., 1873, 172. adduction and abduction, of the foot in this condi- tion, would be greatly impaired; as would also be the motions of the medio-tarsal joint. — Notwith- standing the preservation of all important muscular attachments, any sudden or violent attempt to throw the weight of the body upon the affected foot is liable to induce backward dislocation of the foot; the-only force present resisting this tendency being the released fibulo-calcaneal and tibio-calcaneal ligaments.—After a careful study of three subsequent histories of removal of the astragalus for dislocation, J. TufnelP concludes that a useful foot, such as would enable a laboring man to earn a livelihood, is not to be expected. Mr. Wm. MacCormac^ thus describes the position of the astragalus after a fracture and dislocation of the bone, of two years' standing: "The neck of the astragalus was fractured, the detached head remaining connected with the scaphoid ; while the larger portion, or body of the bone, was completely displaced from between the malleoli backward and inward with a species of double rotation, so that the superior artic- ulating surface was almost vertical, looked inward and slightly backward, and had the tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis fixed to it The internal malleolus had been fractured, and between it and the inner border of the astragalus lay the tendons of the Tibialis Posticus and Flexor Longus Digitorum muscles." The same author describes a second case thus: " The tibial surface was superficial, looking inward and slightly upward; the posterior extremity was directed downward toward the os calcis. Reduction could not be effected. The limb thirteen vears after- ward still exhibited the deformity as described. The man had very considerable movement in the ankle, and a slight degree of lameness was alone present." In congenital talipes varus the shape of the astra- galus is materially modified. The neck is longer than usual, and is more obliquely placed from without in- ward than in the normal bone. The head, in addition to its articulation with the scaphoid toward the inner border of the foot, is in part free beneath the skin of the dorsum of the foot. The superior artic- ular surface at the ankle extends quite to the poste- rior edge of the bone, and is thin and wedge-shaped, instead of being obtusely rounded. The groove for the Flexor Longus Pollicis is absent. In talipes equinus the astragalus inclines forward, in which direction it may be partially dislocated. In ' Dublin M(!dical Press, Deo. 28, 185.3. 2 Trans. Patli. Soc. of Lond., 1875,174.