ONES. 192 THE life. The third appears in the head of the bone at the end of the first year. To these are added, as secondary ossifications, the centre for the great tro- chanter at the fourth year, and the centre for the lesser trochanter at the thirteenth year. The lesser trochanter unites with the shaft at the seventeenth year; the great trochanter and the head of the femur a year later; the condylar epiphysis ossifies with the femur soon after the twentieth year. Eemarks.—-The depression for the li(jamenium teres varies greatly in size. Generally of a triangular form, it is often irregularly rounded, with swollen, everted lips; its size is greater, other things being equal, in young than in adult bones; and it is more acutely depressed in large massive specimens than in smaller and thinner ones. In the former, the lower lip is often thickened and thrown forward.^—^In cer- tain specimens from females the depression is very shallow, and the foramina at the bottom are gene- rally present. Sometimes reduced to one — often numerous and larger—they are well seen in young adult bones; but faintly marked, or entirely absent in oldish, or heavy massive ones. In arthritis, the depression is either entirely filled up, and even pro- duced, or it is scooped out, and bears osteophytes upon its borders. The shape of the head varies. The proximal end of the line of insertion of the Gluteus Maximus is often more pronounced than the remaining portion; when exaggerated in size, this prominence has received the name of tlae third ti ochan- ter, from the fact that it is analogous to a similar projection on the femur of some of the lower animals, such as the horse and the rhinoceros.—The epipliyseal line at the head lies within the embrace of the capsule. In some diseases of the femur, as, for example, in- flammation at the head of the bone in coxalgia, the epiphysis may become detached.—-The distal epiphysis may be detached by violence, and thereby simulate compound fracture of the lower third of the shaft.—An exostosis of the femur occasionally occurs by ossifi- cation of the tendinous insertion of the Adductor Magnus.—An exostosis from the posterior surface of the femur at its lower end has been known to rupture the popliteal artery and necessitate amputation of the thigh.^—An exostosis upon the inner side of the femur at the middle third is supposed to be caused by the frequent pressure of the thigh against the side of the horse in riding, and has from this cir- cumstance received the name of drayoori's exostosis. • Boling, N. A. Med. Chir. Rev., 1857, 608. Necrosis of the femur is more frequent at the lower third of the shaft than elsewhere, particularly in the adolescent. This frequency is probabl}^ connected with the great vascularity of this portion of the bone during development. THE TIBIA. The tibia (figs. 1, 2, 3, Plate XXXIY.) is the largest of the long bones, the femur alone excepted. The shaft is for the most part prismoidal in form, narrower at the lower third than elsewhere, and presents a well-marked irregular expansion above to constitute the upper, and a smaller but decided increase of width below to constitute the lower extremity. The limits of the extremities are not, however, accu- rately distinguished from those of the shaft. The tibia articulates by its lateral surfaces with the fibula at both the upper and the lower end. Above, the tibia is in articulation with the femur, and below, with the astragalus. The upper extremity is expanded and elongated transversely, so that the borders project beyond the shaft, the median projection being the larger of the two. Above are seen two articular facets, the conrfy- foiV/(glenoid) mrfaces, for the femoral condyles. Each of their surfaces is of an oval shape, the internal being the more elliptical of the two. Between them is seen the spine of the tibia placed nearer the posterior than the anterior margin of the bone, and presenting two lateral tubercles, each of which is continuous with the curve of its own articular surface,—the median inter- nal tubercle being the larger. Between the spine and the anterior border on the one hand, and the spine and the posterior border on the other, are two rough triangular surfaces for ligamentous attachment; the posterior of these is the more oblique, and is designed for the attachment of the posterior crucial ligament; the anterior is for the attachment of the anterior crucial ligament and the semilunar cartilage. The lateral surfaces of the upper extremity of the bone form the tnlerosities. These are smooth, convex prominences, the median being the larger, and marked behind by a depression for the middle division of the tendon of the Semimembranosus muscle. The lateral tuberosity is broader than the median, and is further distin- guished by a flat rounded facet directed downward and backward for articulation with the facet on the head of the fibula. In front a tubercle is situated for the origin of the Tibialis Anticus muscle. Posteriorly the upper extremity is slightly depressed, and exhibits between the articular surfaces the jJojiliteaI notch (inter-