EEM AEKS. 105 by n broad smooth muscle, and is in this way protected from the tendency to excessive growth elsewhere evident. The impression of the Temporal muscle is rarely the seat of dis- eased action of any kind. In some remarkable examples on record of diffused cranio-facial exostosis the temporal regions are entirely free from disease.^ Many processes of bone are created, as it were, by mus- cular traction. Thus the pteiygoid process of the sphenoid bone has no existence in animals, whose muscles for moving the lower jaw are dis[)Osed in a manner different from those of man and maninuils. The massive mastoid process is absent when the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle is also absent, as in most quadrupeds. The femur of some animals, such as the rhinoceros, possesses three trochanters. Two of these correspond with tliose found in man. The third is for the insertion of muscular slips not found in man, except as anom- alies. It can be said, indeed, that the trochanters in the human femur are correlative with the muscles inserted into them. In the absence of the muscles the processes would never have appeared. The effect of muscular action in modifying the sha])es of bones has formed the subject of special study by Prof. Henry J. Bigelow.^ According to this writer, the inter-trochanteric ridge of the femur is simply a buttress erected for the inser- tion of muscles upon and over the true neck, which is repre- sented by a more dee[)ly-seated septum or layer of compact tissue (see Femur). Dr. Thomas Dwight^ detects similar superficial de[)osits of bone beneath the anterior inter-tro- ciianteric ridge, and sometimes under the coronoid process of the ulna and the tubercle of the radius. Muscular Action as a Cause of Ostitis and Ne- crosis.—Diseased processes may be excited through mus- cular action. Necrosis has been known to follow ostitis, the result of prolonged traction of a muscle upon the bone yield- ing its points of insertion. Prof. Syme,* in commenting upon a case of sinus of the hip depending upon exfoliation from the pelvis, states that the patient had first experienced uneasiness after a day's emidoyment in curing herrings, and that the discharge of his duty had required him to stand with his feet apart, alternately stooping and stretch- ing his arms upwards to the full extent; subsequently to which he had felt a painful sense of fatigue in the back part of the thighs. It then occurred to the author that tlie disease had originate.! from over-exertion of the muscles which arise from the tuberosity of the ischium, and tliat the bone with wiiich they are there connected had suffered in consequence so as to exfoliate instead of being excited to preternatural growth, as Sir Astley Cooper with apparent (rood reason thought likely to happen from inordinate mus- ' H. Lebert. Traite d'Anat. Patliol. 1857. Atlas, pi. xxxii. Murcliison, Trans. Patli. Soc. London, xvii. 243, pi. 10. 2 Tlie Hip, 1869, 125. 3 Journ. Anat. and Phys., 1875, 311. * Ed. Med. and Surg. Journ., 1828, contains Syme's original notico of this subject. 14 cular contraction. It seemed evident enough that injuries similar to the foregoing cannot result from the direct effect of violence, since in all the cases detailed the bone concerned was securely protected by its situation from any such injury. In all of them there was violent muscular contraction, and it seems probable that this may have been the exciting cause of inflammation and death of the bone. The Shai'esof Bones as Modified by Diseased Ac- tion Bones serve as resistant, masses to the superincum- bent weight of the body. In rickets and otiier diseases which tend to soften the bones, characteristic deformities are found to result from the bones yiehling to the weight of the tissues. The base of the skull may become flattened from the vvcight of the brain, and tlie bones of the vertex distended and distorted from [)ressure from within. The bones of the lower extremities from analogous causes become bent. In the long bones which lia\e undergone softening, but which have regained their former toughness and rigidity, strong ridges are observed upon tiie concave aspects of the curve ; and this superabundant bone, according to Stanley,' is [)Iaced exactly where the curvature of the bones renders them mechanically weaker, and where, consequently, their greatest waste of tissue occurs. This compensative arrange- ment is called by Stanley reparative hypertrophy. Bone may also be altered in lorni by [iressure wliicli has been long maintained against it. An aneurism in an artery lying upon a bony surlace will cause the absorption of the bone at the place of greatest pressure. Thus aneurism of the ascending aorta will create absorption of the sternum or Tibs; and aneurism of the descending aorta, of the bodies of the vertebras. Tumors of other kinds will in the same way cause bone to yield ; tumors of the tongue will create de- formation of the jaws, and tumors in the nose and pharynx will press upon and destroy the bones of the nasal region. One of the most remarkable instances of this pressure seen in the latter locality is reported by Hilton,^ in which an osseous tumor of the left side of the face had distended the superior maxilla and adjacent structures to a remarkable extent. The mass subsequently underwent spontaneous evulsion, but the deformity created by its former presence persisted, in addition to which a cavity communicating with the enlarged nostril remained—An hydatid tumor placed between the left lung and the diaphragm lias been known to cause absorption of tlie bodies of the vertebra and to permit intrusion of the hydatids into the vertebral canal. This in- trusion occurring siuldenly gave rise to the impression that liemorrhage had occurred in the spinal cord Even the petrous portions of tlie temporal bone will not long resist contact with a tumor much less compact than itself. Dr. Morris Longstreth,' in dissecting the relations of a sarcoma ' Illustrations of tlie Effects of Disease and Injury of tlie Bones. London, 1849, pi. xx. p. 22. 2 Guy's Ilosp. Rep., i., 1836, 493. 3 Burnett's Treatise on the Ear, 555.