AND THE 212 LIGAMENTS. THE JOINTS OOO^OOO ing to explain how an adventitious synchondrosis has eventually become developed into a diarthrodic joint, assumes that it has been accomplished by the traction of muscles. He found that among examples of detached epiphyseal centres of the vertebrae some were attached to the main bone by synchondrosis, and some by diarthrodia, and that the latter variety existed where there was the greatest indirect motion due to muscular action.* C. H. Hueter^ has written several suggestive papers on the peculiarities of the articular surfaces of the bones in the child and the adolescent. These papers have important bearings upon the subject of con- genital deformity, and indirectly upon the etiology of all obscure lesions of joint surfaces of limbs. By reason of the difficulty presented in an attempt to epitomize Hueter's elaborate statements, the reader is referred to the original. List of authorities consulted in preparing the above section. An Introduction to Human Anatomy, etc., Wm. Turner, Prof, of An at. in Univ. of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 1867.—See also article " Anatomy," Encycl. Brit. 9th ed. Lehrbuch der Anatomie des Menschen, G. Hermann Meyer, Leipzig, 1873. Article "Articulations," Prof. Todd, Encycl. Anat. and Phys., Vol. I. Der Ban des Menschlichen Korpers, etc., Prof. Chas. Aeby, Leipzig, 1871. THE JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The Joints and Ligaments of the Trunk are ar- ranged as follows:— Those of the Vertebral Column. Those of the Lower Jaw. Those of the Thorax. The Joints and Ligaments of the Vertebral Column. The Ligaments of the Vertebral Column are ar- ranged for convenience into— (1) The General Vertebral Ligaments. (2) The Special Ligaments of the Atlas, the Axis, and the Occiput. ' For an elaborate and experimental paper upon the capacities of the joints, the modifications of shapes, and position of the same as dependent upon distension, see Ed. Albert, in Strieker's Med. Jahrbucher, 1873, p. 304. 2 Virchow's Archiv, 1803. (1) The General Vertebral Ligaments. These are eight in number, as follows:— The Intervertebral Disks. The Anterior Vertebral Ligament. The Posterior Vertebral Ligament. The Interspinous Ligament. The Supraspinous Ligament. The Intertransverse Ligament. The Ligamenta Subflava. The Ligamentum Nuchae, The Intervertebral Disks or Cartilages (fig. 1, Plate XXXVI., fig. 2, Plate XXXVII.) connect the bodies of the vertebrae together from the axis downward. The general form of each disk answers to the shape of the bodies of the vertebrae between which it is placed. In addition to uniting the vertebree, the disks aid in defining the intervertebral foramina, and, in the dorsal vertebrae, the facets which articulate with the ribs. The disks are narrowest between the third to the seventh dorsal vertebrae and between the bones of the coccyx. Each disk is composed of a laminated exterior and a p>ulpy interior. The for- mer portion makes up a little more than one-half of the entire disk. The pulpy portion is suscepti- ble of great cliange in form. Thus, when the bodies of a pair of adjoined vertebrae are divided transversely through the middle, it arises above the plane of the section. The peripheral fibres are comjiosed of concentric layers of fibrous tissue ano fibro-cartilage. These layers are arranged nearly vertically laterally, but are slightly curved as they approach the median line. Each layer is composed in such a way of oblique alternating fibres that successive arrangements of crossing fibres are seen. The pulp is placed a little nearer to the posterior than to the anterior border. Sometimes, according to Luschka, it sends a bud-like prolongation backward to the vertebral canal. Composed as it is of a loose stroma of fibrous tissue, holding in its meshes carti- lage cells of various sizes, the pulp is thought to rep- resent in the adult skeleton survivals of the chorda dorsalis, and to serve the purpose—under the great pressure to which it is subjected—of a ball or pivot held by stout peripheral fibres within the apposed axial surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae. In the cervical and the lumbar region the disks are thicker in front than behind. In the cervical re- gion they about equal the thickness of the body of the vertebrae. In the dorsal region the disks are a little thicker behind than in front. The disk is the same height both before and behind at the junction