THE LUMBAR VERTEBRJ5. C-OO^CXX: 117 column in which the epiphysial processes of the mam- millary processes of the twelfth dorsal remained dis- tinct; as also did the fused mammillary and accessory processes of the first lumbar vertebra. The spinous process of the first dorsal and the transverse process of the seventh dorsal in like manner presented de- tached epiphysial bones. Tabular Plan of Parts opposite the Spines of THE Vertebra. (Holden.) a > o m Ph o p 7th 1st. 2d. 3d. Apex of lung; in the male. higher in the female than (30) 4th. 6th. 6th. 7th. 8th. 9th. 10th, 11th. 12th. Aorta reaches spine. A]iex of lower lobe of lung. Angle of bifurcation of tra- chea. (49) Aortic arch ends. Upper level of heart. Lower level of heart. Central tendon of diaphragm. OEsophagus and vena cava through dia- phragm. Upper edge of spleen. Lower edge of lung. Liver comes to surface posteriorly. Cardiac orifice of stomach. Lower border of spleen. Renal capsule. Lowest part of pleura. Aorta through diaphragm. Pylorus. Pelvis of kidney. (83) spinal cord. Pancreas. 1st. Renal arteries. 2d. Termination of Duodenum just below. Receptaculum cliyli. Umbilicus. Lower border of kidney. Division of aorta. (65) Highest part of ilium. 6a. 4th. 5th. According to the same authority, the spine of the second dorsal corresponds with the head of the third rib; the spine of the third dorsal with the head of the fourth rib; and so on until we come to the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae, which so tally with their corresponding ribs.' ' For other relations, see Tabular Relations between the anterior and posterior surfaces of the thorax. THE SACRUM. The sacrum (figs. 1, 2, 3, Plate XIV.) is formed by the fusion of the five vertebras which intervene be- tween the lumbar vertebrte and the coccyx. The lines of union of the bodies of the vertebrae can be distinguished in frunt by four transverse ridges repre- senting the position of the ossified intervertebral disks; and behind by a median row of tubercles which represent the dorsal vertebral spines. The in- tervertebral foramina are seen under the name of the sacral foramina; and the vertebral canal under the name of the sacral canal. The sacrum is the broadest part of the vertebral column, and forms the posterior wall of the pelvis. The bone has been compared to a wedge. Its antero- posterior curvature impairs the value of this figure somewhat. The first sacral vertebra closely resembles the last lumbar vertebra both in appearance and in size; the remaining segments gradually lose resemblance to vertebrae, the last, indeed, retaining little beyond a body and imperfect laminae. The sacrum presents for examination a base, an apex, and anterior, posterior, and lateral surfaces. The base has a broad surface, which corresponds to the body of the last lumbar vertebrae, and a pair of well-defined sacral articular processes which join the inferior lumbar prucesses of the same name. The apex is small, and articulates with the coccyx by a narrow oval surface. The anterior surface (fig. 1, Plate XIV.) is concave and nearly smooth. It is ridged transversely by the four lines of union between the several vertebrge. The spaces between the terminations of these ridges and the lateral surfaces are called the lateral masses, and are marked by four broad and shallow grooves for the anterior sacral nerves. The anterior upper portions of the sacrum are often spoken of as the wings or alse. The Pyriformis muscle arises from the lower two- thirds of the lateral mass, and the Coccygeus arises in part from its inferior portion. The posterior surface (fig. 3, Plate XIV.) is narrower and more irregular than the anterior. The laminas, dorsal spines, articular and transverse processes unite with one another without suture, thus covering in the sacral canal except at a small space behind the first and last sacral vertebrse, where, as a result, the supe- rior and inferior sacral notches, respectively, are de- fined. The laminee blend to form a continuous surface on either side of the median row of tubercles which are the rudiments of the dorsal spines. This surface would be smooth throuohout.were it not for the nodosi-