THE BONES OF THE HEAD. 133 =>oo^oo= noidal process of the palatal bone. In carefully macerated specimens of the vomer a small ridge is seen, which limits the plane of the posterior nares superiorly. The surfaces of the vomer are smooth save where they are grooved for the naso-palatine vessels and nerves. Structure.—The vomer is composed of two layers of bone, which slightly diverge at the anterior bor- der. In fresh specimens there is found in the groove in this way formed a thin rod of cartilage, which is continuous with the triangular cartilage. Articulation.—The vomer articulates with the sphenoid, ethmoid, palatal bones, and the superior maxillje, and with the triangular cartilage. Development.—The vomer arises from the peri- chondrium of the septal cartilage by a single centre of ossification. Remarks.—The vomer presents the following vari- ations : The two layers composing the bone are very distinct—an evidence of unusual degree of persistence of the septal cartilage. The wings may be greatly exaggerated—-recalling exostoses. The wings may be very small, and the groove between the plates anteriorly occupied by calcified cartilage. THE SUPERIOR MAXILLA. The superior maxilla (figs. 3 and 4, Plate XX.) oc- cupies the space between the orbit and the mouth—• the zygomatic fossa laterally, and the outer wall of the nose medianly. It assists in forming the floor of the orbit, the outer side and floor of the nose, and the an- terior nares, and affords lodgment for the upper teeth. It presents for examination a central portion or body, and the nasal, palatal, malar, and alveolar pro- cesses. The boundaries of ihe body correspond pretty accu- rately to the shape of a large cavity—the maxillary sinus. The antero-posterior section of the body bi- sects the sinus at the position of the first molar tooth. Tlie sinus is of a triangular figure. One side of the triangle forms the floor of the orbit; another, imper- fect one, the nasal side; while between the nasal and the orbital borders lies the facial. In a horizontal section of the body the posterior border is seen to be convex and directed towards the zygomatic fossa, hence the name given it of the zyyornatic surface. The size of the maxillary sinus is subject to great variation. It may extend into the malar bone. It is occasionally divided into compartments by incom- plete vertical septa. The orbital surface of the body is a nearly smooth plane, and is slightly oblique from within outward. Its inner edge articulates with the lachrymal bone and the OS planum of the ethmoid. Its outer edge joins the malar bone at its anterior half, and forms the inner border of the spbeno-maxillary fissure at its posterior half. The orbital surface is marked by a groove run- ning from behind forward, which terminates in a canal near the front edge. This is the infra-orbital groove and canal for the transmission of the infra-orbital nerve and artery. The orbital surface may serve to cover in the nasal chamber above the middle meatus. The inner or nasal surface is imperfect. It presents an upper and a lower plate, with a large irregular opening between them. When the bones of the face are in position, this opening is partially closed by the palatal bone, the ethmoidal process of the inferior turbinated, and the uncinate process of the ethmoid. The lateral or facial surface is concave, and extends from the root of the malar process forwards to the median line at the anterior nasal aperture. Its junc- tion with the orbital plate is marked by a thickened border—the infra-orbital ridge—which is continued a short distance upon the ascending process. Directly below the ridge lies the infra-orbital foramen for the nerve and artery of the same name. Extending from the infra-orbital foramen to the alveolar process, to the outer side of the eminence of the socket for the root of the canine tooth, is a depression known as the canine fossa. To the median side of the canine depres- sion lies the canine eminence^ answering in position to the root of the canine tooth. Above the incisor teeth is seen a smaller depression—the myrtiform fossa. The posterior or zygomatic surface is convex. It extends from the base of the malar process to the nasal aspect of the bone, where it joins the vertical plate of the palatal bone. It is separated from the orbital surface of its own bone by a sharp line at the inner border of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The zygomatic surface presents a rounded eminence above the alveolus for the last molar tooth, termed the tube- rosity. Above it a short distance lie the posterior den- tal foramina for the transmission of the posterior dental artery and nerves. This surface presents me- dianly an articular surface for the pyramidal process of the palatal bone. The nasal process is the stoutest in the region of the face. It is broader below than above, and is in- clined upward and slightly backward to articulate