THE BONES. 174 OC-C^OCXS the humerus, while behind it is inclined to the lateral (outer) side. The trochlea is more sharply defined medianly than laterally. It is simple and concave behind, but presents in front, in addition to a central concavity, a convexity toward its median side. To the lateral side of the trochlea, and separated from it by a groove, is a well-defined convex surface, the radial Ae«(/(condyle, capitellum), for articulation with the depression on the head of the radius. It is di- rected forward, and is confined to the anterior aspect of the bone. Above the trochlea in front is a shallow triangular depression for the coronoidprocess of the ulna. A less distinct impression is seen above the radial head. Directly above the "trochlea behind is a broad deep depression for the olecranon. ^ To the lateral (outer) side of the radial head is a depression for the exter- nal lateral ligament; above it is seen a conspicuous tubercle—the epicondyle (external condylar eminence), for the origin of the extensor muscles of the forearm. To the median (inner) side of the trochlea is a pro- cess corresponding to the foregoing, but much more conspicuous than it—the epitrochlea (internal condylar eminence). This is roughened at the tip for the attach- ment of the internal lateral ligament of the elbow- joint, and in front for the origin in great part of the flexor muscles of the forearm.-—The region of the epicondyle is much thicker than that of the epitroch- lea ; in some morbid conditions the disproportionate thickness between the two becomes enormously exag- gerated. Structure.—At the head are presented two sets of lines, a median and a lateral. The median set is com- posed at its outer border of nearly vertical lines, which pass downward from the upper border of the head to the median border of the anatomical neck. The inner members of this series become curvilinear and shorter as the lower border of the articular surface is reached. Thus the first of the central lines are the longer, and the last the shorter.—The outer set is composed for the most part of vertical lines passing through the greater tuberosity to the lateral wall of the anatomical neck. The median laminee of this set become more and more oblique, and finally intersect the lateral fibres of the inner set. At the distal end the laminae, when seen in trans- verse longitudinal (frontal) section of the bone, are nearly vertical at the centre, but are moderately con- cave at their nearest border at the sides. Near the position of the epicondyle and epitrochlea are a num- ber of oblique lines. In the longitudinal antero- posterior (sagittal) section lines are seen to converge from the articular surface to the compressed layer between the olecranon fossa and the depression for the coronoid process of the ulna.—In addition to the above arrangement the epiphysis can be distinguished from the shaft by the fine texture of the cancelli lying beneath the articular surface, and by the coarse and for the most part vertically arranged laminse of the greater tuberosity. In some specimens the two sets of the shaft, instead of being straight, are slightly curved toward each other.—Notwithstanding the strength of the humerus, numerous examples are on record of its fracture by muscular action.^ Development.—The humerus arises from seven to eight centres of ossification. The first centre appears in the shaft at about the eighth week ; the nucleus for the head appears at the second year, and that for the great tuberosity at the third year. The lesser tube- rosity, should it have a distinct centre, ossifies at the fifth .year. The centres above named coalesce by the fifth year, and constitute the upper or proximal epiphysis. The union between it and the shaft takes place at about the twentieth year. The radial head is the first portion of the distal end of the bone that ossifies, since it receives its centre at the third year. The remaining parts ossify in the following order: the epitrochlea at the fifth year, the trochlea at the eleventh or the twelfth year, and the epicondyle at the eighteenth year. The distal end when completed unites with the shaft at about the sixteenth or the seventeenth year, A transverse line drawn below the tuberosities de- fines the distal limit of the proximal epiphysis, as a similar line uniting the proximal borders of the epi- trochlea and the epicondyle defines the proximal limit of the distal epiphysis. Both of the epiphyses may be violently detached in the living subject (Fig. 70). In the event of the proximal epiphysis becoming de- tached, it has been found by Mr. Jno. Hutchinson^ that the periosteum is apt to be stripped oft' from the proximal end of the distal fragment of the shaft, and left attached as a dense cup to the distal edge of the proximal one. This circumstance leaves the epiphysis with more muscular fibres attached to it than would have been the case were a clean section made through the bone and the periosteum. Thus, the Teres Minor muscle is inserted distally to the ephiphyseal line, but ' Hamilton on Fractures and Dislocations ; and W. Parker, N. Y. .Journ. Med., 1852, 95. 2 Med. Times and Gazette, 18G6, 248.