165 THE TRUNK. CXIO^OOO In addition to the terms superior and inferior aper- tures the terms ajjex and hase are in use by clinical writers. The apex is vaguely defined, and may be said to answer to the upper portion of the cone-like figure of the thorax. It has also been said to accom- modate the apical portions of the lungs. In conse- quence of the fact that the apex of the lung is not confined to the thorax, the latter determination can have but slight significance. The hase of the thorax is of much more value. It is defined by Sibson' in the following language : The base extends like a girdle across the lower ribs from the end of the eighth rib in front to that of the twelfth behind, and answers to the circuit at which the pleura is reflected from the Diaphragm upon the ribs and the Intercostal muscles, and down to which the lungs can descend during the deepest possible inspiration in the living, and when distended to the full in the dead. In such a position as the one last named, the base of the thorax is almost a straight line, crossing the extremities of the four lower ribs in an oblique direction from before back- ward and downward. Remarks.—The shape of the thorax and the pro- ])ortion it bears to the rest of the body are subject to inuch variation. In the infant the thorax is rela- tively smaller than in the adult. In the female the upper portion of the thorax is less compressed from before backward, and is more capacious than in the male; the superior thoracic aperture is larger, and the motions between the upper ribs and the sternum and the vertebne are more conspicuous. From these circumstances the respiratory movement in the thorax of the female is decided as compared with that of the male, and has from this circumstance been called thoracic. In the male the lower ribs and the abdo- minal walls are seen moving more freely than the upper; so that with him respiration is said to be ahdoviinal. The thorax is of necessity modified in shape by the condition of its contents. When the lungs are ex- panding as in inspiration, the ribs from the fii'st to the sixth (upper ribs) are raised toward one another so as to narrow the intercostal spaces, the sternum ascends, and the anterior thoracic aperture assumes a nearly horizontal position. At the same time the ribs from the seventh to the twelfth (lower ribs) are depressed so as to widen their intercostal spaces, and tlie inferior thoracic aperture is increased in size ; the twelfth rib remaining nearly stationary. When the ' Medical Anatomy, col. 37. lungs are contracted as in expiiration the reverse of the movement described takes place. The upper ribs are far apart, and the remaining ribs are elevated and approximated at the side of the chest. In emphysema the characteristics of inspiration with bulging intercostal spaces, and in phthisis those of expiration with depressed intercostal spaces, are maintained and exaggerated. In chronic asthma a peculiar cylindroid form of thorax is detected, which has received the name of the " barrel chest." The respiratory movements may, indeed, be said to determine the shape of the thorax. Even in the arti- ficial skeleton the disposition of the ribs from the first to the sixth to present convex lower borders, and that of the ribs from the sixth to the tenth to present concave lower borders, is evident. By this character the ribs that ascmcZ in respiration can be distinguished from those ribs that descend in respiration, the latter being least marked in the case of the eleventh and the twelfth. A careful inspection of the interior of the thorax in the skeleton is useful. The first and second ribs directly overlie the thoracic chamber, forming its roof; the remaining ribs lie at the sides. It is evi- dent that the first-named ribs will yield a percussion note answering more exactly to the resonance of the entire thoracic space than will one elicited from the ribs either at the sides or at the back.—The pro- jection of the line of bodies of the dorsal vertebrae forward, and the curvature of the ribs, give to the transverse sections of the thorax a kidney-shape. The vertebral column answers to the hilus of this figure, and the deep symmetrical curves on either side to the surface above and below the hilus. These deep curves lying between the sides of the vertebra) and the sides of the thorax correspond to the posterior thoracic surface, and may receive the name of the ptulmonary sinuses, since they lodge the convex poste- rior surfaces of the lungs. The form of the thorax is in great measure con- cealed in the undissected subject. The clavicles and the muscles attached to it obscure the outline of the first and second ribs. The scapula, when the arms are at rest, covers in and conceals the dorsal surface from the second to the eighth or ninth ribs. In front, at the back, and at the sides, muscular masses protect the parietes as with pads or cushions, and remove many of the costal surfaces from observation and the touch. It is well to remember that even in very muscular or fleshy individuals the following points can always be made out, no mention of the sternum and the beginnings of the costal cartilages beingr