123 THE BONES OF THE HEAD. c-OO^OOo received iu front by the greater A¥ing of the sphe- noid bone, above by the parietal, and is limited be- hind by the ridge forming the posterior margin of the temporal impression, viz., the supra-mastoid rid(je. The squama is smooth, slightly convex, and covered in the subject by the temporal muscle. The zygomatic or horizontal portion lies upon the base of the skull. The glenoid fossa is a depression for articulation with the lower jaw. It lies upon the base of the skull, and is defined in front by a faint ridge, behind by the glenoid fissure {squamoso-tympanic suture), and by a dependent ridge, the post-glenoid pro- cess. From the junction of the squamous and zj^go- matic surfaces arises a large process called the zggo- matic. This has a broad triangular origin from three roots. Its large posterior root is continuous with the post-glenoid process, its short anterior root is lost in the zygomatic surface, while its third, less defined, is received upon the under surface of the base of the process in a conspicuous convexity, the articular emi- nence. The zygomatic process extends horizontally forwards to articulate with the zygomatic process of the malar bone, and to form the zygomatic arch. The Masseteric muscle arises in part from this process. Internally, the squamous portion is concave, and marked by several inequalities designed to give in- creased strength to the bone. It is grooved fur the meningeal arteries, and receives the middle lobe of the cerebrum. Inferiorly an eminence is seen corre- sponding to the glenoid fossa.' The pjetrous portion is of an irregular pyramidal figure, the base of which is dii'ected outward, the apex forward and inward. It is composed for the most part of very compact tissue, from which it de- rives its name. It contains the internal ear, transmits the facial nerve and internal carotid artery, and sup- ports in part the cartilaginous portions of the Eusta- chian tube. It presents for examination three sur- faces, an anterior and a posterior, which, lie within the cranium, and an inferior, which lies at the base without. The anterior surface is divided into two sub-equal areas. The upper portion is of petrous consistency, and corresponds to the bony covering of the labyrinth. It is marked as follows: (1) An eminence for the vertical semicircular canal; (2) A depression toward the apex for the ganglion of Gasser; (3) A small de- pression entering into the formation of the foramen caroticus internus. The lower portion is a thin layer of bone {tegmen tympani), which covers in the tym- panum and forms the roof of the bony portion of the Eustachian tube. It is continued forward to the squamoso-petrosal fissure, and appears beneath at the glenoid fissure. The roof of the tympanum is per- forated by one or more minute openings, the most conspicuous of which is the hiatus Fallopjii, for the greater petrosal nerve, and a smaller one for the lesser petrosal. At times a clot of blood occupying the chamber of the tympanum will be evident (after the removal of the brain) by the bluish discoloration of the tegmen. The posterior surface is less oblique than the an- terior, and presents a division into two planes: an outer, which is marked by a small foramen directed outward, the aquseductus vestihuli, which, transmits venous blood from the internal ear; and an inner, Avhich is nearly continuous with the plane of the basi- cranial axis. The latter is marked by the internal auditory meatus for the passage of .the seventh and eighth cranial nerves. Upon the ridge between the anterior and posterior surfaces is a groove for the supe- rior petrosal sinus, which extends in a straight line as far as the internal auditory meatus, from which point it is deflected forward. From the meatus to the end of the petrous portion, the ridge is depressed for the reception of a thick fold of dura mater, beneath which pass the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth nerves. A distinct ossicle is occasionally found in this fold. The inferior surface (fig. 3, Plate XXIA^.) of the petrous portion is covered in part by the tympanic and styloid portions. As seen from the base of the skull, the petrous portion presents a posterior border for articulation with the occipital bone, marked from without inward by the following parts: First, by a smooth triangular surface directly behind the styloid process for articulation with the transverse process of the occipital bone. Second, by a semicircular sulcus (the jugular groove), which in articulation with the occipital bone forms the jugular foramen. Third, by a small notch for the reception of the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. Fourth, by an irregu- larly serrate border for articulation with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and by a small surface at its inner extremity with the body of the sphenoid bone.—The following parts are seen on the inferior free surface: First, a smooth space lying between the preceding and the inferior orifice of the carotid canal. Second, the floor of the carotid canal. To the outer side of the inferior surfoce is seen the large circular orifice of the canal, and to its inner side (the bone being in articulation), the median lacerated foramen. Near the basilar process of the occipital bone it is