181 THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. =.OOg§<X>0 Of tlie remaining surfaces, the radial is free and smooth, the iihiar is faceted for articulation with the trapezoid and the second inetarcarpal bone. Between the distal facet and the ulnar border is a small portion of the trapezium, which lies free between the first and the second metacarpal bones, and serves for the attach- ment of a ligament. Holding the bone with the grooved side downward, the saddle-shaped facet will point to the side to which the bone belongs. The Trapezoid Bone.—The trapezoid bone is placed between the radial half of the scaphoid bone proximally and the secfmd metacarpal bone distally. It is narrow on tlie palmar surface, presents a nearly quadrilateral shape tlirough the body, but is broad and irregular on the dorsal surface. The proximal surface is narrow, and yields a slightly concave facet for articulation with the scaphoid bone. The distal surface is saddle-shaped, with a median ridge, and articulates with the second metacarpal bone. The dorsal pentagonal surface is smooth and free, as is also the palmar. The radial surface articulates with the trapezium, and the ulnar with the os magnum. The Os Magnum.—The os magnum is placed be- tween the semilunar bone and the ulnar surface of the scaphoid on its proximal side, and the third meta- carpal bone on its distal side. The trapezoid and a portion of the second metacarpal lie to its radial, and the unciform bone to its ulnar side. The distal surface is triangular, and is concave for articulation with the third metacarpal bone. The proximal end forms the head of the bone; it is sub-rounded in form, and con- vex for articulation with the semilunar bone. The head is convex on its radial side, but flat on the ulnar, and is more conspicuous on the dorsal than on the ventral surface. The dorsal surface is marked by the facet for the semilunar bone proximally, but is broader and more irregular distally. The palmar sur- face is free, narrow, and convex. The radial surface constitutes a convex facet for articulation with the scaphoid; and a small median surface presents a facet for the trapezoid. The ulnar surface presents a facet along the entire length of the dorsal half of the bone for articulation with the unciform bone, while the palmar half is flat and roughened for ligamentous attachment. The Unciform Bone —The unciform bone is placed between the semilunar and the cuneiform bones proxi- mally, and the fourth and the fifth metacarpal bones distally. The distal surface presents a large articular surface divided by a ridge into facets, as follows: the facet to the radial side of the ridge articulates with the f(;urth metacarpal bone, that to the ulnar side with the fifth metacarpal bone. The proximal surface is very oblique, and occupies the entire width of the bone. It is concave toward the ulnar side, convex toward the radial. A faint ridge defines the two facets: the first is very small, narrow, and convex at the radial edge for articulation with the semilunar bone; the second is large and, for the most part, con- cave for articulation with the cuneiform bone. The palmar surface is very irregular, and is marked, proximally to the fifth metacarpal bone, by a large hook-like process for the attachment of the deep annular ligament, and the origin of the muscles of the little fint^er. The surface elsewhere is narrowed. The dorsal surface is free. The radial surface is laro'e, faceted nearly the entire surface for articulation with the OS magnum; it becomes roughened in front for ligamentous attachment. The ulnar surface is com- pressed as a thin edge lying between the facet for the cuneiform and that for the fifth metacarpal bone. Variations in the carpal and metacarpal bones are of four kinds: (1) Duplication of one of the bones; for example, the presence of two semilunar, or two scaphoid bones in the place of one. (2) The existence of the styloid process of the third metacarpal as a distinct bone. (3) The occurrence of an intermediate bone {os intermedium) between the scaphoid and the OS magnum. This is homologous with a larger bone in the same locality, which is normal in the carpus of some of the quadrumana. (-4) A sesamoid bone at the insertion of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. All of the above variations are rare. They have been particularly investigated by Gruber,' the metacarpus. The metacarpus (Plate XXX.) is a series of cylindri- cal bones placed between the carpus and the first row of phalanges. Each bone consists of a shaft, a proxi- mal (carpal), and a distal extremity. The shaft, which approximates a prism in form (an appearance best seen in the second, the third, and the fourth bones) is slightly concave beneath. The proximal end is fiat or concave, and presents in the case of the second, the thii'd, and the fourth bones lateral facets for articulation Avith the adjoining carpal bones. The distal extremity is rounded, convex, and, with the exception of the first, longer than wide. ' Arch. Anat. Physiol, unrl 'Wissensf-h. Med. (le I'Acad. Imp. St. Petersbourg, 1870-73. 1862-76; Bullt-tin