THE SKULL. e-OO^CKX^ 153 the lateral wall the greater part of its length by the spheno-maxillary fissure. In front the floor is com- pleted hv the malar bone, and behind by the orbital process of the palatal bone. The orbit communicates with the cranial cavity by the optic foramen and the anterior lacerated foramen. Tlie optic foramen lies at the apex of the orbit at the junction of the median wall and the roof. The ante- rior lacerated foramen extends from the median wall obliquely outward and inward along the junction of the lateral wall and the roof.—The orbit communicates with the temporal fossa through the spheno-maxillary fissure. The anterior and the posterior ethmoidal fora- men are found at the junction of the median and late- ral walls. The anterior ethmoidal foramen transmits the anterior ethmoidal artery and the nasal nerve; the posterior ethmoidal foramen transmits the poste- rior ethmoidal artery. The Nasal Foss^.—The nasal fossse (fig. 2, Plate XXIV.) are two irregular cavities, one on either side of the septum. Each fossa is narrowed above, is higher before than behind, and presents for examina- tion a lateral and a median wall, a roof, a floor, and an anterior and a posterior aperture.—The lateral wall is exceedingly complicated. It is composed of processes of the nasal aspect of the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, of the inferior turbinated bone, and of the nasal aspect of the body and the ascending process of the superior maxilla. The lateral wall is uneven by reason of the position of the superior and middle tur- binated bones (see the Ethmoid Bone, p. 131), as well as by the position of the inferior turbinated bone. The middle meatus is seen to be well defined between the lower margin of the middle turbinated bone and the upper margin of the inferior turbinated bone, and the inferior meatus, between the lower margin of the inferior turbinated bone and the floor of the nose. Under the term agijer nasi, Meyer describes a crest extending from the upper margin of the mid- dle turbinated bone forward along the lateral wall. The median vjall of the nasal chamber is the nasal sep- tum. It is composed of the following parts named in the order of their importance; the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, the vomer, the maxillary and the palatal crests, and the frontal spine. The upper two-thirds of the inner wall is derived from the eth- moid bone. In the undissected'subject the triangular cartilage completes the median wall anteriorly. Earely if ever straight, the median wall inclines commonly to the left side at the vomero-ethmoidal junction. Oc- casionally it is incomplete. — The roof of the nasal 20 chamber is very irregular. Anteriorly, i. e., in advance of the cribriform plate, it is oblique from before back- ward and from below upward, and is composed of the nasal bone and the spine of the frontal bone. The cribriform plate occupies the middle third of the roof or more. It is straight or slightly concave. The remaining portion of the roof is derived from the sphenoid bone.—The floor is shorter than the roof, and is composed of the upper surfaces of the hori- zontal plates of the superior maxilla and the palatal bone. It is inclined slightly from before backward, and the premaxillary portion is often elevated above the level of the remaining portion.-—-The anterior nasal aj)erture (anterior nares) is a pear-shaped open- ing defined below and at the sides by the superior maxillge, and above by the nasal bones. It thus forms the common opening to both nasal chambers.^ Its plane is directed slightly obliquely from below upward and from behind forward. Its apex is on a level with the superior meatus and the sphenoidal sinus.—The posterior nasal aperture (posterior naris, choana) is smaller than the anterior by about one- fuurth its height, and is defined without by the pterygo- palatine junction, within b}^ the vomer, above by the vomerine crest (see p. 133) and the sphenoidal pro- cess of the palatal bone. The plane of the posterior nasal aperture is obiii[ue from below upward and from before backward. Each nasal chamber, in addition to the communi- cation already mentioned, joins the orbit by the ductus ad nasum, the zygomatic fossa by the spheno- palatine foramen, and the brain-case by the foramina of the cribriform plate. It receives the outlet from the maxillary, frontal, and the sphenoidal sinuses, as well as the ethmoid cells. For clinical purposes, the nasal fossae are capable of being divided into three portions: the premaxil- lary, the maxillary, and the palatal portions. These names are selected from the surfaces occupied by the bones entering into the composition of the hard palate and the lateral walls of the nasal fossae answering to the same. Thus, the premaxillary por- tion of the fossa lies in advance of the anterior palatal canal, and all the parts of the lateral wall in advance of the anterior border of the cribriform plate. The maxillary portion answers inferiorly to the surface between the anterior palatal canal and the suture between the maxilla and the palatal bones on the hard palate, and superiorly to the posterior border of ' When it is intended to name the outUH of a sing term anteriur naris or posterior naris is permissible. le cliamber, tlie