206 THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS. tain in tlie centre, as in the last-named example, a synovial sac. Inter articular fihro-cartilaye (meniscus) is found between articular surfaces, and divides the joint more or less perfectly into two compartments. The plate may extend entirel}^ across the joint, as at the sterno-clavicular and temporo-maxillary articula- tions, in which forms it is apt to be thinned toward the centre; or it may be crescent-shaped, and fixed laterally to the capsule or ligaments of the joint, the remaining portion lying free in the joint, and covered with synovia on both sides. Circumferential fihro-cartilaye is the name given to bands at the edges of sockets of bone, which serve to deepen the sockets. Such, for example, are the coty- loid ligament of the hip bone, and the glenoid liga- ment of the shoulder-blade. Synovia is the fluid secreted by a synovial mem- brane. It is a transparent, alkaline, albuminate fluid, of glairy consistence, yellowish color, and saltish taste. A synovial membrane is a delicate structure allied to serous membrane, and linens the joint ci,.vity. It sends occasional pockets or culs-de-sac among the accessory ligaments or adjacent muscles. ON THE ACTION OF JOINTS. * A correct conception of the following subjects is demanded in studying joint-action: Atmospheric pressure, action of ligaments, presence of synovia, action of muscles, and the shapes of facets. Atmospheric Pressure.—The pressure of the atmo- sphere upon a joint forces the cartilages against one another, and the more yielding soft parts inward from all sides. The tags of synovial membrane occupied by fat are by the same pressure driven into spaces in the joint unoccupied by cartilages or capsule. When a joint is filled with fluid, as for example serum or pus, or, as in the course of experimentation on the subject, with water or air, the contact between the bones is broken. Atmospheric pressure, there- fore, as exerted upon a healthy joint, precludes the existence of a joint cavity in the proper sense of the term. Atmospheric pressure is best studied in joints hav- ing wide range of motion. In the knee, for example, when the condyles of the tibia are resting upon the posterior portions of the condyles of the femur (that is to say, the joint being in the position of extreme flexion), the anterior parts of the joint are separated from one another, and the integument on either side of the patellar ligament is to be seen depressed : the weight of the atmosphere, it is thought, has pushed the superficial parts in to occupy the otherwise gaping interval in the front of the joint. The brothers Weber found that the hip-joint remained intact as long as the normal relations to the atmospheric pressure were maintained. But the moment an opening was made through the bottom of the acetabulum the femoral and acetabular surfaces spontaneously sepa- rated. Action of Ligaments.—The ligaments assist in main- taining contact between joint surfixces, and in limiting the motion of articular surfaces. Presence of Synovia.—Synovia lubricates the inte- rior of the joint, and lessens friction. Action of Mtiscles.—No theory of joint action is com- plete without a knowledge of the action of those muscles that either cross over joints, or have their attachments at or about them. Appropriate muscular action determines the normal lines of pressure and resistance, and indicates the direction of motion of the various parts of the joint in changing from a flexed to an extended position. In joints of simple con- struction muscles may take the place of accessory ligaments, as, for example, in the shoulder, where it is shown that paralysis of such muscles causes the head of the humerus to fall away from the glenoid cavity of the scapula. It is probable that muscular action may serve as a compensating force in maintaining con- tact between the articular surfaces when the liga- ments are softened and relaxed by diseased action. The Shapes of Facets.—As the distance of the articular surfaces from one another in the healthy joint is invariable, and the condition above named nominally present, the degree of muscular power required to cause the curve-like motions of the joints is not so great as would at first sight be supposed. The shapes of the joint surfaces assist the ligament- ous or other checks in preventing too great latitude of motion. It is evident that the articular surface of the coronoid process of the ulna, for example, limits the degree of flexion of that bone upon the humerus, as the surface of the olecranon limits its extension. In like manner the entire ulno-humeral joint acts as a check to the radio-humeral rotatory motion, if indeed it does not convert it in the acts of flexion and extension from a rotatory to a ginglymoid joint. The slightly oblique path of movement of the humero- ulnar joint is checked by the direct path of move- ment of the radius on the humerus. In carnivorous animals, such as the badger, the motions of the temporo-maxillary joint are strictly confined by con-