THE BONES. 180 000^<C>0-^ line witli the vertically placed bones of the forearm. The carpus for the main features of its mechanism is best studied in the act of transmitting the shock received through all the bones from the distal to the J proximal ends. Thus, in striking with the fist, the force of the blow is received by the distal ends of the outer four metacarpal bones, through the flexed base of the first row of the phalanges. It is thence transmitted along the bones of the forearm (notably the radius) by means of the convergent axial lines of the carpal bones. Animals walking upon the ends of the toes, such as ruminants, horses, a^id others, retain the disto-proximal mechanism of the carpus still more conspicuously than does man. The Scaphoid Bone.—The scaphoid bone (navicu- lar bone) is the first bone of the first row. It articu- lates with the radius proximally, with the trapezium and the trapezoid distally, and with the os magnum to • the ulnar side. The proximal surface is pyriform, the base being directed raedianly, and lying in the palrao- dorsal axis of the bone; the distal surface is broader toward the palm than is the dorsum. Between the last-named surfaces a groove extends, which consti- tutes the dorsum of the bone, and is continuous with the radial border. The ulnar surface is crescentic and convex above for articulation with the semilunar bone, and oblong and concave below for articulation with the OS magnum. The radial border is free and roughened for the attachment of the internal lateral ligament at the scaphoid luherde^ which can be distin- guished during life lying to the median side of the extensors of the thumb. The Semilunar Bone.—The semilunar bone is placed between the radius proximally, and the os magnum and the unciform bone distally ; the scaphoid bone lies to the radial border, and the cuneiform to the ulnar. The proximal surface, which is triangular, in form, with the base directed toward the radial border, and the dorsal angle produced, is convex for articulation with the quadrilateral facet of the distal end of the radius. The distal border is bi-faceted—- the radial facet being concave for articulation with the OS magnum, and the ulnar facet (often inconspicuous) being flat and narrow for articulation with the unci- form bone. Both the dorsal and the palmar surfaces are free, the palmar being the larger of the two. Of the lateral surfaces of the semilunar bone the radial is crescentic in form, and smooth for articulation with the scaphoid bone, the ulnar is flat and oblique for articulation with the cuneiform. The Cuneiform Bone.—The cuneiform bone, as its name implies, resembles a wedge, with its base directed toward the radius. The largest articular surface—the distal—is saddle-shaped, broader above than below, and articulates with the unciform bone. A line carried back from it leads to a free dorso- lateral surface for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the wrist joint. There is thus no proper proximal surface of the bone. The dorsal surface is roughened for the ligamentous attachment at the ulnar half of the bone, but is convex and smooth for articulation with the fibro-cartilage of the wrist-joint. The palmar surface is irregular and roughened for attachment of ligaments. The radial surface presents a smooth facet for articulation with the semilunar bone; the ulnar is small, oval, smooth for articulation with the pisiform bone; a groove lies between facets of articulation with the pisiform and the unciform bones. The outline of the bone can be made out in the undissected subject. The Pisiform Bone.-—^The pisiform bone lies to the ulnar margin of the first row of the carpus on its palmar surface. It presents a single articular facet for the cuneiform bone, and lies to the ulnar side of the first row of carpal bones. The proximal, the distal, and the ulnar surfaces are free, receive the tendon of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris muscle, and afford attachment to the external lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint. The bone also presents a facet for the Abductor Minimi Digiti muscles, and gives attach- ment to the anterior annular ligament. Tlie position of the pisiform bone can be easily re- cognized during life. The Trapezium.—The trapezium is placed in front of the radial half of the distal surface of the scaphoid bone and proximally to the first metacarpal bone. It presents a distal saddle-shaped surface for articula- tion with the first metacarpal bone, and a proximal concave facet for articulation with the scaphoid bone. The dorsal surface is free, and exhibits two prominent tubercles in front, with an intermediate depression. The palmar surface is the most characteristic, and is marked by a wide compressed oblique process, for the orio-in of the Abductor Pollicis and the Flexor Brevis o Pollicis muscles, and for the attachment of the deep annular ligament, as well as by a groove placed dorsally to the above-named process, for the tendon of the Flexor Carpi Eadialis muscle as it passes to its inser- tion on the second metacarpal bone.