THE S KULL. 149 constitute the anatomical features of the internal base of the skull. The exterior base is the exterior of the parts form- ing the interior base. It is that surface remaining after the face has been removed. Anteriorly at the loase of the forehead it is angulated to answer to the difference in level between the anterior and the middle cerebral fossos of the interior base. The horizontal plates of the frontal bones and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone form one line of the angle, and the anterior (orbital) surfaces of the greater wings of the sphenoid bone the other. At the inferior border of the latter, namely, at the superior border of the spheno-maxillary fissure of either side, an imagi- nary line drawn backward to the posterior border of the foramen magnum (opisthon), and thence to the external occipital protuberance, completes the limitation of the exterior base. The figure resultant upon the union of these lines may be compared to a letter Z, the lower horizontal member of which is greatly prolonged. In a less exact manner a line ex- tending from the external occipital protuberance to the fronto-nasal suture has been said to define the base. A section made by removing the parts intervening between the lower limb of the Z and the free anterior end of the figure would pass through the roots o.f the pterygoid processes, the angular processes of the fron- tal bones, the vomer, and the perpendicular plate and ossa plana of the ethmoid bone. Examined in detail, the exterior base of the skull presents for examination from before backward the following surfaces: The narrow and perforated crib- riform plate of the ethmoid bone; the horizontal plates of the frontal, which are thin, brittle, and slightly arched, together with the orbital surfaces of the lesser sphenoidal wings; the section of the exter- nal angular process, showing spongy tissue; the smooth surface of the thick, spongy greater wing of the sphe- noid bone—the junction of the horizontal and sphenoid surfaces, which is often marked by a number of minute foramina. Behind this region the body of the sphe- noid bone, the bases of the pterygoid processes, the horizontal limb of the greater wing of the sphenoid, and the squamous portion of the temporal bone, are seen. Yet more posteriorly lies the cranio-basic axis, as here represented by the basilar portion of the occipital bone. The lateral portions are composed of the under surface (5f the petrous portions of the temporal bones and of the tympanic bones. The posterior basal sur- face is made up of the foramen magnum, of the oc- cipital condyles, of the larteral portion of the occipital bone, and of the ascending portion of the same as far as the superior semicircular line. The exterior base of the skull is marked by the lateral processes of the frontal bone, by the pterygoid, the spinous, styloid, mastoid, and jugular processes, and by the occipital condyles. It presents for examination the following fossas: the pterygoid, scaphoid, glenoid, digastric, and the depressions in front and behind the occipital condyles. The exterior base is pierced by the optic, anterior lacerated, oval, spinous, and posterior condyloid fora- mina. It receives the termination of the hypoglossal canal and the beginning of the carotid canal. The structure and openings defined by the union of parts entering into the exterior base are: First, the anterior lacerated foramen between the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid bone. It looks directlv forward. Secondly, the Eustachian sulcus—extending inward and forward from the inner end of the glenoidal fissure to the body of the sphenoid bone. It is formed in part by the sphenoid and in part by the petrous portion. Its base is often incomplete. Thirdly, the median lacerated foramen; this is an interval between the tip of the petrous portion and the body of the sphenoid bone. It is occupied by fibro-cartilage during life. It is of variable size, and in the long and narrow skulls, as the skull of the negro, may be absent. Fourthly, the petro- basilar groove. This is a depression lying between the petrous portion and the outer side of the basilar process. It is filled with fibrous tissue during life, and is continuous with that filling up the median lacerated foramen.' Fifthly, the •posterior lace- rated foramen. This is formed by the union of the jugular grooves of the petrous portion of the tempo- ral and the jugular groove of the occipital. It transmits the jugular vein, and the ninth, tenth, and eleventh cranial nerves. A bony septum (inter-jugu- lar process, Henle) often separates the nerves from the nerve veins. The posterior lacerated foramina and the jugular fossae vary greatly in size in different individuals, and on opposite sides of the same individual.^ A num- ber of hypotheses have been from time to time an- nounced according to which a definite connection be- tween the size of the foramina and the activity of the brain centres and the special organs is traced. It has been claimed^ that the foramina are contracted in ' The median lacerated foramen is not to be confounded with the termination of the carotid canal seen within tlie middle cerebral fossa. 2 Theile, Zeitschr. fiir Rationelle Medicin, 1855, 339 ; F. 0. Ward, Outlines of Human Osteology, 58 ; T. Dwight, Am. Journ. of Med. Sci., Oct. 1873 ; Rudinger, Monatsch. fiir Olirenheilkunde, 1875. 3 Kasloif Oppenheim. Zeitschr. fiir die gesammte Med., Jan. 1844 —abstract in Amer. Journ. of Med. Sci., 1844, 209, vol. viii.