1G9 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. P<>O^CXX5 emphysema, the clavicles are raised and the neck is shortened; while in the subjects of phthisis they are depressed, the shoulders are sloping, and the neck is lengthened. In the full-chested the clavicles pass almost horizontally outward; in the narrow-chested they incline markedly backward. The last-mentioned position of the clavicles is so invariable that it may be taken into account in examination for the early stages of chronic phthisis.—In a condition which may be taken as an average, the median third of the bone an- swers to the tirst rib, which it crosses at an acute angle; the middle third to the first intercostal space, from which it is separated by the branchial plexus and the axillary vessels; and the outer third to the cora- coid process and the acromio-clavicular articulation.— Enlargements of the subclavian artery and vein can in certain abnormal states aid in pushing up the clavicle, and together with the other causes already mentioned disturb the normal relation of parts at the base of the neck. Operations for aneurism or for sub- clavian tumors of any kind are from this cause more difficult than would appear from the study of the comparatively superficial structures met with in the subject. Indeed, so great is the difficulty arising from the depth at which the artery may lie that division of the clavicle has sometimes been resorted to prior to ligation of the subclavian artery at its outer third.—^In cases of comminuted fracture the inter- nal jugular vein and the subclavian vein have been punctured or compressed. The compression may in- volve the subclavian artery, and the pulsation of the radial artery may be suspended. Enlargement in the volume of the bone is liable to create similarly in- jurious pressure. When this is excessive, the expan- sion of the chest-wall is so interfered with as to create dyspnoea.^—In fracture of the bone at the junction of the thoracic end and the body, the former end is fixed by the costo-clavicular ligaments, while the remaining portion of the bone is depressed by the weight of the superior extremity, and the median end is ele- vated. In fracture of the body (a result of falling upon an outstretched hand) the median fragment is raised by the Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid muscle, the late- ral fragment is depressed, and the free end drawn forward, inward, and backward by the action of the shoulder muscles. In the rare fracture between the two divisions of the coraco-clavicular ligament, no displacement occurs; but in fracture to the outer side of this ligament the lateral fragment is pulled down- • .Tolin Bi-ittoii, British Med. .Tourn. 1870, 519. 22 ward by the weight of the superior extremity until it is nearly at a right angle to the rest of the bone, which remains in position. THE SCAPCJLA. The scapula or shoulder-blade (figs. 1, 2, Plate XXVII.; fig. 1, Plate XXVIII.) is the main bone of the shoulder. It belongs to the class of the flat bones, is for the most part thin, and possesses a somewhat triangular form. It is situated at the side and at the back of the thorax, and when at rest corresponds to the distance between the second and the seventh or the eighth ribs. The scapula is a very movable bone, owing to its connection with the trunk by means of the clavicle, and to the numerous powerful muscles inserted into it. The scapula presents for examination two surfaces, three borders, and three angles. The neck, the gle- noid cavity, the coracoid process, the spine, with the acromion, are also described. The dorsal surface (dorsum) is divided at its upper fifth into two unequal portions by the sj^ine. That portion above the spine is called the supra-s^n'nous fossa, and that below the spine the infra-spinous fossa. The supra-spinous fossa is concave, and broader toward the vertebral than the axillary border. It gives origin to the Supra-Spinatus muscle.—The infra-spinous fossa is, for the most part, convex for the origin of the Infra-Spinatus muscle, but exhibits a longitudinal depression toward the robust axillary border. Be- low and to the axillary side of the Infra-Spiuatus impression lies the narrow surface of origin of the Teres Minor muscle. Crossing the axillary limit of the fossa at its upper third is a transverse groove for the dorsal scapular artery. At the inferior narrow portion of the infra-spinous fossa, below the surface for the last-mentioned muscle, is a smooth triangular space for the origin of the Teres Major muscle. This is limited above by an oblique line separating it from the impression for the Teres Minor. Above the axil- lary limit of the Teres Major impression is seen the small surface of origin of the Subscapularis muscle, which is occasionally present. The imder sioface (venter) extends the entire length of the bone. It is concave, and at its upper fifth, viz. at the point corresponding in position to the spine of the scapula, it presents a somewhat pronounced depression, which has received the name of the sulsca- jndar angle. Below this depression, the subscapular fossa is marked toward the vertebral border by three