138 THE BONES. c-OO^OOO by the orbital aspects of the frontal and malar pro- cesses. Structure.—The malar bone is composed of stout lateral plates with intervening cancelli. Articulation.—The malar bone articulates with the frontal, the superior maxilla, and with the zygo- matic process of the temporal. Development.—The malar bone arises from two centres of ossification. Hilgendorf^ states that this takes place not infrequently. Sometimes these cen- tres remain distinct, when the malar bone has been described as "double." Remarks.—The facial surface between the orbital border and the position of the malar foramen is some- times more convex than the rest of the bone. The temporal border of the frontal process quite com- monly presents a process directed upward at the upper third in place of the swollen border, here com- monly present. the lachrymal bone. The lachrymal bone (figs. 1 and 3, Plate XXI.) is best Been upon the anterior portion of the inner wall of the orbit. It is a thin quadrilateral plate of bone lying in front of the os planum, back of the ascending process of the superior maxilla, below the internal lateral process of the frontal bone, and above the or- bital plate of the superior maxilla. It is marked at its anterior third by a ci'cst (posterior lachry^nal crest) which aids in defining the lachrymal groove^ the ante- rior wall of which is completed by a small crest on the ascending process of the superior maxilla—[ante- rior lachrymal crest). The groove is converted into a canal—the ductus ad nasum—by the aid of the nasal process of the superior maxilla and the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated bone. ' Virchow's Arcliiv, 1879, 190. Internally the lachrymal bone forms part of the outer wall of the nasal chamber. At this point the composition of the outer wall is complicated by the uncinate process of the ethmoid bone, which passes downward and backward to the inner side of the lachrymal bone; so that when the lachrymal bone is removed, this process occupies in part the opening; it thus serves to support the lachrymal. The lower border of the lachrymal bone is thicker at the termination of the lachrymal crest than else- where, for the purpose of giving strength to the pos- terior wall of the ductus ad nasum^ It articulates with the superior maxilla at the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and with the anterior portion of the inferior turbinated bone. Articulation.—The lachrymal bone articulates with the frontal, the os planum of the ethmoid, the superior maxilla, and the inferior turbinated bones. Development.—The lachrymal bone arises from a single centre of ossification which appears about the eighth week. Remarks.—The lachrymal bone may be much re- duced in size or be absent. For anomalies, see Gru- ber,^ and Luschka,^ Gegenbauer,^ and the writer.* the nasal bone. The nasal bones (figs. 2 and 3, Plate XXII.) are situ- ated at the upper portion of the external nose. Each bone is longer than wide, and thicker above than be- low. It is smooth and gently convex from side to side on its facial surface, and concave upon the nasal, where it is grooved for the nasal nerve. The upper margin is serrated for articulation with the frontal bone, and at the nasal spine. The inferior margin is continuous ' Muller's Arcliiv fiir Anat. 1848, xiv. p. 413. ^ Ibid., 1858, p. 304. 3 Zeitsch. fiir Morphologie, 1881. * Amer. .Journ. Med. Sci., Jan. 1870. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXL Fig. \. The lachrymal bone, seen from the median aspect. Fig. 2. The inferior turbinated bone, seen from the lateral aspect. Fig. 3. The lachrymal bone, seen from the lateral aspect. Fig. 4. The malar bone, seen from the lateral aspect. Fig. .5. The malar bone, seen from the median aspect. Fig. 6. The inferior maxilla, seen from behind, and some- what foreshortened. Fi"'. 7. The inferior maxilla, seen from the side.