THE BONES. 118 ties whicli stand for the pairs of coalesced articular and mammillary processes of the sacral vertebras. They are ranged in a linear series between the more con- spicuous dorsal spines and the posterior sacral fora- mina. The terminations of the line of articular pro- cesses form noticeable projections; the inferior of these are called the sacral cornua. To the outer side of these foramina are placed the less perfectly marked remains of the lumbar transverse processes. By reason of these numerous modifications of the vertebrte, the vertebral grooves are shallow and imperfectly defined. The posterior sacral foramina are much smaller than the anterior, and are not accompanied with grooves. The posterior surface gives origin to the Gluteus Maximus and Coccygeus muscles, and to the vertebral aponeurosis. The lateral surfaces (fig. 2, Plate XIV.) are di- vided into two portions, which differ widely in their degrees of departure from the vertebral plan. Each surface answers to the sides of the first three vertebrae, is broad and thick, and in the fresh condition of the bone is occupied by an ear-shaped surface of cartilage {auricular surface) for articulation with the corre- sponding innominate bone. Below the auricular sur- face the lateral surface is compressed, notched, and without articulation. Above, it affords attachment to the sacro-sciatic ligament. Viewed as a portion of the spinal column the sacrum presents an abrupt anterior convexity opposite the first sacral vertebra, called the 'promordory of the sacrum. This eminence may so vary as to be opposite to the second sacral vertebra. Below this is a gentle concavity, which assists in forming the superior outlet of the pelvis, and in supporting the pelvic viscera. In uniting with the lumbar vertebra an opening of variable size is formed between the laminte of the vertebrpe and the first dorsal tubercle of the sacrum. Hence the vertebral canal is not well protected at this point. When from any defect in the development of the posterior surface this opening is preternaturally large, we have the condition known as spina bifida. Spina bifida may in this way be confined to the upper portion of the sacrum, or it may involve the entire bone and even the lumbar vertebras. In addition to the above the union converts the supra-intervertebral notch into a foramen of the same name. Union with the coccyx converts the intervertebral notch at the lower border of the sacrum into a foramen; and union with the innominate bone converts the notch at the lower border of the lateral surface into a foramen which transmits the fifth sacral nerve. Development.—-The sacrum develops after the manner of the vertebrte, of the elements of which in- deed it is composed. Thus there is one centre each for the bodies of the vertebrae, and one each for the laminas posteriorly, as well as for the tubercles which answer to the mammillary tubercles of the lumbar vertebne. Epiphyses, similar to those seen elsewhere in the vertebral column, arise upon the bodies of the vertebras. In addition to these vertebral characteris- tics the sacrum presents a new ossification upon its lateral surfaces. These are two in number on each side, and resemble generally the epiphyses upon the vertebrae. The following is the order in the devel- opment of the parts of the sacrum:— Ossification takes place in the bodies and laraiui'e at the eighth or ninth week ; the laminae begin to ossify at the sixth month; the union of the laminas with the body in the lower vertebne occurs in the second year, and in the upper later, namely, at about the fifth or sixth year. The epiphysial and lateral plates are formed at the sixteenth year, and completed sX the twenty-fifth. The bodies of the sacral vertebra? unite slowly. The process is completed from below upward, as with the laminte, at about the twenty- fifth year. (Quain.) Articulations.—The sacrum articulates with the last lumbar vertebra above, the coccyx below, and the innominate bones at the sides. Remarks—The promontory of the sacrum can be readily felt by rectal examination. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XV. Fig. \. Tlie vertebral cokimn, seen from the sid'^. Fig. 2. The dorsal vertebra; and portions of ribs in position, showing tiie metliod of union between the ribs and the vertebra;. From a dried [)reparation. The curve of the cohimn is distorted, and tiie lines of union of the heads of the ribs with tiie vertebra; are too irregular.