THE BONES. 172 OOO^OOo most commonly involving the neck of tlie scapula, with which, as has been shown, the process is con- tinuous superiorly.—The centre for the inferior angle is sometimes united to the body of the bone by synchondrosis. Portal mentions the possibility of the detachment of this bone by the violent action of the Latissimus Dorsi muscle. Kemarks.—The variations in the scapula, apart from errors of development, are for the most part confined to the conversion of the supra-scapular notch into a foramen by the ossification of the transverse ligament; to the occasional flattening of the venter above the subscapular angle; and to the exaggera- tion of the spine in the axillary border.—-The articu- lation between the scapular spine and the clavicle, described under the bone last named, is always accom- panied witli changes in the form of the spine and the adjacent parts. Should a specimen of a scapula come under notice in which irregular nodosities or ossifi- cations are found attached to the upper border of the spine near the acromion, the inference is reasonable that the clavicle of the corresponding side had secured an articulation to the spine in addition to that of the acromion, and that the nodosities were in some man- ner associated with such abnormal union. The coraco-clavicular ligaments are sometimes ossi- fied in whole or in part, and aid in altering the out- line of the neck. This occurs either as a result of united fracture of the scapular end of the clavicle, or as a result of the friction of the coracoid process against the clavicle. Under the last-named circum- stance an adventitious joint or bursa may be de- veloped, about which irregular ossific growths arise. Under the action of osteophytes developed about the head of the humerus the glenoid cavity and the neck may be actually bisected as with a knife. The greatest breadth of the scapula is obtained by a line extending from the centre of the glenoid cavity to the vertebral border ; the greatest length by a line extending from the superior to the inferior angle. The length of the infra-spinous fossa is obtained by a line extending from the vertebral end of the spine to the inferior angle. The expression of proportion be- tween the breadth and length has received from Broca^ the name of the scapular index, and the length of the infra-spinous line, taken in connection with the other, the infra-spinous index. The standards thus accepted furnish means of examining scapulae, not only for • Bulletin de la Soc. d'Anthropologie de Paris, i. (3d series), 1878, 66 ; also, W. H. Flower, Journ. of Anat. and Phys. xix. 1879, 13. clinical purposes in health and disease, but for all other purposes of comparison. The general form of the scapula can be made out in the living subject; the most easily determined features are the spine, the acromion, the vertebral border, and the inferior angle. Holden^ suggests that measurements of the arms be taken from the junction of the spine and the tip of the coracoid process.—The posterior surface of the acromion is often separated from the skin by a bursa. The position of the bone may be precisely stated as follows: The scapulae are five and a half inches apart at the level of the spines, and six inches at the inferior angles. This distance may be lessened in muscular subjects; Meckel states it at two inches. The spine is on a level with the third dorsal spine; it about answers to the division between the upper and the lower lobes of the lungs, and near the verte- bral border is on a level with the third intercostal space. The motions of the scapula are determined by the muscles in connection with it, and by the condition of the thoracic wall; and it may be thus thrown out of position by muscular atrophy or deformity of the spine. The scapulas can be approximated so that the spines are an inch and a half apart, and the lower angles three inches apart. When widely separated the spines are nine inches apart, and the inferior angles thirteen inches. When the hands are crossed on the head, the inferior angles are sixteen and a half inches apart. In inspiration the scapula moves forward one inch, the spines are five inches apart, and the inferior angles seven inches, while the shoulders assume a square ap- pearance. In respiration the scapulae drop slightly, and project backward at the inferior angles. These projections, when very pronounced, have received at the hands of the older writers the name of the scapu- lar ivmgs. They are specially noticeable in chronic plithisis.* By the motion of tlie scapula against the ribs, which Henke has somewhat fancifully compared to a ball- and-socket joint, a bursa, lursa mucosa intra-serrata, is apt to be developed between the concave scapula and the convex side of the thorax. Gruber has found that in about one-fifth of such instances an elevation of cartilage exists upon the third or the fourth ribs, over which the scapula glides. Dr. R. Ilerse^ describes clinically a case in which the above condition was ' Landmarks, 104. 2 Anatomie, i., 467. 8 Sibson, Medical Anatomy Cel., 45. 4 N. Y. Med. Journ., xiii. 729