THE LIGAMENTS. THE JOINTS AND 222 cranon to the lateral margins of the humerus. The interstices between the ulna and radius are filled with fat. The Internal Lateral Ligament is composed of two fasciculi of diverging fibres,—an anterior and a posterior. The anterior fasciculus, the stronger and more superficial of the two, extends between the ante- rior surface of the epitrochlea and the inner margin of the coronoid process; it serves to limit extension. The posterior fasciculus, thin and radiated, extends from the posterior surface of the epitrochlea to the side of the olecranon, and serves to limit flexion. It is directly continuous with the capsule poste- riorly. Between these two fasciculi is a minute foramen answering to the notch at the inner end of the transverse groove, which is failed with a pellet of fat. The internal lateral ligament is covered by the common flexor mass. The ulnar nerve is, in a rrieas- ure, protected by an imperfect fibrous canal, which is covered by the ulnar fibres of origin of the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris muscle. The External Lateral Ligament is an imperfectly defined thickened band of the capsule, extending from the epicondyle, and spread out over the orbicular ligament, which it holds in position. It is shorter than the internal. Posteriorly a number of its fibres are attached to the ulna. The external lateral liga- ment is covered by the origin of the common exten- sor mass, and yields points of origin for the Supinator Brevis muscle. The Orbicular Ligament (annular, coronary ligament) is a strong ringdike band attached to the anterior and the posterior edges of the lesser sigmoid cavity. It is thicker behind than in front, and thinner above than below, where it ends at the neck of the radius. It describes four-fifths of a circle, and encompasses the vertical surface of the head of the radius. It is sustained by the fibres of the external lateral liga- ment and a portion of the anterior division of the capsule. At a point where these structures are di- vided, the annular ligament sinks to the position of the neck of the radius. According to Cruveilhier, the ligament is easily ruptured in front. In luxations it is not the external lateral, but rather the anterior por- tion of the orbicular ligament that is ruptured. The Synovial Membrane lines the ulno-humeral as well as the radio-humeral surfaces. Morbid growths developed within the plicae of this membrane may ■resemble movable cartilages. Luschka mentions a case in which a body of this kind placed in the olecranon fossa prevented full extension of the forearm.—The ulnar nerve lies so near the capsule that its section at this point cannot be attempted without endanger- ing the integrity of the joint. The Arteries are derived above from the com- municating branch between the superior and the inferior j^rofunda and the anastomotic branches of the brachial, and below from the recurrent branches of the radial and the ulnar arteries. The Nerves of the elbow-joint are received pos- teriorly from a branch of the ulnar nerve, and ante- riorly from a branch of the radial. Movements.—The elbow-joint embraces two lines of movement: a movement of flexion and extension taking place between the trochlea of the humerus and the ulna; and a movement of rotation taking place between the radial head of the humerus, the orbicular ligament, and the head of the radius. The last-named portion of the joint enters into flexion and extension with that of the trochleo-ulnar movements. Flexion is checked by the coronoid process lyiug within the coronoid depression of the humerus.— Pronation and supination may be demonstrated in extreme flexion, when the motion occurs between the raised rim of the radial proximal surface and the depression above the radial head of the humerus.— Extension is checked by the olecranon lying within the olecranon fossa of the humerus. It is limited by about 180^.—Inward rotation is checked by the late- ral border of the vertical surface of the radial head impinging against the anterior portion of the orbicu- lar ligament.—Outward rotation is checked by the oblique ligament and by the median border of the radial head impinging against the orbicular liga- ment. The lateral ligaments are of great importance in maintaining the integrity of all parts of the elbow- joint. The joint is destroyed, should one of them be divided. The bones of the forearm do not coincide with the axis of the arm, either in flexion or in extension. In flexion they incline inward, and in extension out- ward. The latter inclination is most pronounced in supination. In applying an extending force to the forearm with a view of influencing the shoulder, it is recommended to pronate the hand. In this posi- tion the inclination of the forearm outward is measur- ably removed.^ The movements of flexion and extension are per- formed on paths that are held by H. Meyer^ to be portions of a screw-like or spiral figure. ' Richet, Anat. Medico-Chirurg., 897. 2 Arch. f. Anat. Pliysiol. uud Wisseiiscli. Med., 18GG.