THE BONES. 154 the cribriform plate. The palatal portion lies be- tween this line and the plane of the posterior nares. The Hard Palate.—The hard palate (fig. 2, Plate XXIII.), or roof of the mouth, is composed of the palatal aspect of the premaxillse and the palatal plates of the superior maxillfe and of the palatal bones. The hard palate is of a U-shape, the limbs of the figure being slightly divergent. In the negro, the free hinder ends tend slightly to approach one another. The posterior free border is composed of two emar- ginate surfaces united at a median point, called the posterior palatal process or sjnne. The posterior palatal process may be absent when a triangular notch is seen in its place, or the two emarginations of the palatal bones are continuous with each other without interruption. The hard palate, when divided transversely (frontal section), exhibits the form of an arch, of which the pillars are constituted by the alveolar processes, and the top by the parts above named. At the median line, the hard palate behind the premaxillary portion is thicker than elsewhere. Occasionally a pronounced median swelling or flat ridge is seen, which forms a conspicuous projection, detectable with ease even in the living subject. On either side of the median ridge the hard palate is thin, and may be diaphanous. At the junction of the hard palate with the alveolar process a conspicuous longitudinal groove is seen for the accommodation of the palatine arteries and nerves. The hard palate is pierced anteriorly by the iiLcisorial foramen so called. To speak accurately, two incisorial foramina, situated one on either side of the nasal septum, so far unite as to present but a single opening upon the hard palate. Each foramen transmits the anterior palatal branch of the superior maxillary nerve, as well as a small artery, the anterior palatine of its own side. Near the posterior border and at the base of the alve- olar process, is the pjoslerior pala.tal foramen for the posterior palatal artery and nerve. This foramen is protected in a measure by adjacent rugosities, and bv a strong buttress-like ridge of the palatal boue. The hamular processes of the sphenoid bone can be readily felt in the living subject by passing the finger back of the wisdom tooth a little to the median side' of the alveolar process. They serve as guides to the posterior limitation of the hard palate. The Inter-orbital Space. — The inter-orbital space includes the nasal bones, the ascending pro- cesses of the superior maxillae, the frontal bone below the level of the supra-orbital arches, and the lachry- mal bone as far as the lachrymal crest. The ductus ad nasvm thus pertains to the superficies of the face rather than to the orbit. The conjunction of the frontal and nasal bones and the ascending processes of the superior maxillte in this space is such that enormous strength for resisting pressure and sustain- ing weights results. Fracture, or other injury, is rare here. Yet the lower half of the nasal bone is not infrequently either fractured or displaced. Ivory exostoses, for some unexplained reason, arise occa- sionally from the line of union of this space with the orbit.^ At a superficial glance, the modifications of the face, in order to accommodate the teeth, are restricted to the alveoli. But a more careful examination will show that the entire facial region is adapted to the forces employed in using the teeth. It has been seen that the bones of the face, with the excep- tion of the lower jaw, are immovably united to one another and to the brain-case. To raise the lower jaw and to bring it against the upper so as to make these acts efficient in the seizing, the cutting, and the grinding of food, demand, on the part of the last- named structure, a power of so conducting the forces of occlusion as to avoid concussion of the delicate structures contained in the orbits and nasal fosste. The act of seizing and tearing food appears to de- mand greater strength than that of cutting or grinding it. The stout canine tooth conveys the shock along ' Consult Duka, Trans. Path. Soc. London, xviL, 256 ; also W. Watson, Ibid., 18G8, xix., 310. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXIV. Fig. \. Skull, seen from the side, exhibiting the profile view Fig. 2. Sagittal section of skull; the lower jaw and sknll- of the base ; method of union of the bones of the brain- cap are removed. case and the face ; together with the composition of the Fig. 3. The lateral region of the exterior base of the skull, median wall of the maxillary sinus. slightly enlarged.