188 THE BONES. c-OO^OO^- ward. In the female ihe sub-pubic arch is wide and rounded at the symphysis, and forms an angle of about 90-' to 100° ; in the male the arch is angulated, and forms an angle of from 70° to 75° ; in this sex the obturator foramen is also of a triangular figure. FiR. 72. The female pelvis. Race distinctions can also be determined as well as those of sex. In the negro the transverse diameter FiR. 73. V; Diagram showing the inclination and axis of the true pelvis. is less than in the white. The race distinctions of the pelvis have been made the subject of elaborate study by Mr. J. G. Garson.^ ' .Tournal of Anatomy and Phjsiol., vol. xvi., Fart I., ]881, 106 (figs.). The axis of the pelvis is the sum of the lines unit- ing the centres of geometrical planes defined within the cavity of the true pelvis. Tliis has been described as an irregular parabola. Considered as representing the line of descent of the body of the child during delivery the pelvic axis, as above defined, is approxi- mately true only, since the pelvis, considered as a ligamentous or an artificial structure, retains, to an imperfect degree, the diameters of the inferior strait. Mechanism of the Pelvis.—The pelvis is sustained in its relation to the trunk by the sacro-lumbar arti- culation, and with the lower extremity by the hip- joint. It is inclined slightly downward and for- ward, so that the plane of the superior strait assumes to a horizontal plane an angle of 55° to 65°. The exact degree of angulation present is determined by the amount of flexure in the lumbar vertebrae. The bones of the pelvis are not immovably fi.xed, but per- mit a moderate amount of motion to occur normally between one another. Fif?. 74. Section of pelvis showing the suspensory action of the sacro-iiiac ligaments. While sustaining the weight of the body, the sacrum, being broader behind than in front, would slip for- ward, if the motion were not checked by the stout ligaments uniting it with the innominate bone. The EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXIL Fig. 1. The male pelvis seen from in front—the coccyx is absent. Fin;. 2. The innominate bone seen from in front.