197 THE BONES OF THE FOOT. sure of the synovial fluid of the joint. Union is almost always fibrous. Indeed, according toD. Hayes Agnew,' such a union is to be desired, since a true osseous union is liable to be destroyed. The Bones of the Foot. The bones of the foot (Plate XXXV.) are composed of the calcaneum, the astragalus, the cuboid bone, the scaphoid bone, and the three cuneiform bones, composing the tarsus; of the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth metatarsal bones, composing the me- tatarsus ; and of the two toe-bones of the first toe and the three toe-bones in each of the remaining toes, that collectively constitute the jihalanyes of the foot. THE TARSUS. The Calcaneum.—The calcaneum (os calcis)is the largest bone of the tarsus, and constitutes the posterior abutment of the longitudinal arch of the foot. The shape of the bone is that of an elongated cube whose upper surface is irregularly depressed, and whose me- dian surface is concave. The calcaneum articulates above with the astragalus, and in front with the cuboid bone. The bone is composed of a body and an anterior process. The body comprises the bulk of the bone, namely, the portion answering to the surface of articulation with the astragalus and the laterally com- pressed mass projecting backward from it to form the "heel." The anterior process is that portion of the calcaneum lying in front of the articulating surface for the astragalus, and it serves to articulate with the cu- boid bone.—An imaginary line, passing round the heel directly behind the posterior margin of the ankle, indicates the so-called "neck" of the calcaneum. In a more exact manner the calcaneum is described by its surfaces ; these are six in number, as follows :— The superior surface is divided into a posterior concave roughened surface which is free, and an anterior smooth surface for articulation with the as- tragalus. The last named is again divided into an anterior and a posterior portion, with an intervening depression. The anterior portion is elongated, con- cave, with sinuate margins; in front, as it overhangs the cuboidal face, a separate surface is often developed. The posterior portion is larger than the anterior, is sub-rounded, and looks downward and outward. It is supported by the stout process which has received the name of the sustentaculuvi tali. The depres- ' System of Surgery, i. 9S0. sion between the two portions is narrow within, broad without, and yields attachment for the interos- seous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. When the cal- caneum is in articulation with the astragalus, this depression is converted into a canal.—The inferior surface is narrowed from behind forward, and is marked at its posterior third by two tubercles named from their relative positions the median and the lateral tubercle.^ the former of which is much the larger. Probably the lateral tubercle sustains little or none of the weight of the body, since it is of merely mus- cular significance. It forms a round projection when seen from the lateral surface of the bone. Both tuber- cles afford points of attachment for the correspond- ing divisions of the plantar fascia, while the interval between them yields a surface of origin for the Flexor Brevis Digitorum. In front, on the median margin of the inferior surface, is a broad, slightly convex surface for attachment of the stout greater inferior calcaneo- cuboid ligament. The mechanical axis of the infe- rior surface of the calcaneum appears to lie ob- liquely to the anterior tubercle, for the attachment of the lesser inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, in- ward and backward to the median tubercle, thus placing the lateral tubercle paraxially.—The lateral (external) surface is nearly vertical, and marked with numerous openings for bloodvessels. Placed near its middle is a welk-like rugositj^, which, from the circum- stance that it serves to separate the Peroneus Brevis from the Peroneus Longus muscle, is known as the peroneal tubercle. A second tubercle is situated near the cuboidal facet, and gives origin to the Abductor Minimi Digiti. In articulation it is a guide to the position of the calcaneo-cuboid joint.—The median (internal) surface (hollow of the calcaneum) is con- cave for the protection of the tendons of the posterior tibial muscles, and the plantar bloodvessels. The Flexor Longus Pollicis tendon lies in the best defined groove of the bone on the under surface of the susten- taculum tali.—The anterior surface is lozenge-shaped ; the upper three-fourths of the space is occupied by an articular surface for the cuboid bone, and is tri- angular in form, the apex being directed upward. The facet is slightly convex laterally, but is concave medianly to form at the upper margin a conjunction with the astragalar articular surface. The lower angle of the anterior surface is roughened for the attachment of the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament.—The pos- terior surface (calcaneal tuberosity, tuber calcis) is blunt and free. The upper portion inclines forward, and is covered with a bursa; the lower is roughened for the insertion of the tendo Achillis.