127 THE BONES OF THE HEAD. where it joins the malar bone to form the spheno- temporal partition. Between the pterygoid impres- sion and the orbital plate a well-defined groove is seen leading to the spheno-raaxillary surface. The lesser wing, composed of compact tissue, arises from the junction of the side with the upper surfaces of the sphenoid bone. It passes horizontally outward, and tapers as it approaches the greater wing to which at the fronto-sphenoid junction it may be attached. It possesses two pedicles. The anterior is thin, and lies on the same plane with the orbital part of the frontal bone. The posterior is stout and rounded, and is con- tinuous with the outer edge of the olivary process medianly, and with the under thickened free border of the lesser wing laterally. The anterior border of the lesser wing is thin and serrate to articulate with the frontal bone. The posterior border is thickened and free. Its median extremity projects inward to form the anterior clinoid process. This process presents a median border grooved for the ophthalmic artery, and a shelving external border which overhangs the sphe- noidal fissure. The opening between the anterior and posterior pedicles is tlie optic foramen, which trans- mits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The posterior pedicle separates the optic foramen from the sphenoidal fissure. The anterior surface of the lesser wing as it lies behind the cribriform plate of its own side sends forward a small process of bone, which aids in covering in the p<«terior ethmoidal cells.' The pteryijoid processes of each side descend from the junction of the body with the greater wing. Anteriorly the process forms at its upper third a smooth triangular surface, which forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. Tlie remaining portion of the process is in articulation with the pa- latal bone. Posteriorly the process is free along its entire border.—The pterygoid process is in great part divided into an inner and outer plate. The space between these plates, best seen from in front, is called the pterygoid notch, which is occupied in the skull by the pyramidal process of the palatal bone. The space between the plates seen from behind is called the ptery<joid fossa, and gives origin to the Internal Ptery- goid muscle. The outer pterygoid plate is broader than the inner, and is directly continuous with the outer wing. It is deflected slightly outward and for- ward to articulate with the palatal bone above the dental alveoli. The lower head of the External Pterygoid muscle arises from its outer surface. The I For special description of this process in man and fox, see Liischka, Zcit. fiir Wissenschaft. Zool. viii., 1857, 123, Taf. iii. inner plate is a compressed vertical layer of bone ar- ticulating in front with the palatal bone. The inner plate is free behind. Its inferior portion is prolonged as a hook-like extension, forming the hamularprocess, over which plays the tendon of the Tensor Palati muscle. The pterygoid fossa as it terminates supe- riorly is continuous with a small elliptical depression, which has received the name of the scaphoid fossa. It gives origin to the Tensor Palati muscle. The Foramina of the S2jhenoid Bone.—The foramina of the great wing are as follows: First, the round foramen, seen at the anterior third of the side of the body and directed forward. It transmits the superior maxillary branch of the fifth pair of nerves. Second, the oval foramen. This is a large opening in the hori- zontal portion of tlie greater wing near its petrosal border, behind and to the outer side of the round foramen. It is directed dowuAvard, and transmits from above the inferior maxillary branch of the fifth pair, and from below the lesser meningeal artery. Third, the spnnous foramen, which transmits the great meningeal artery. The pterygoid process exhibits a canal at its base directed horizontally forward, which, transmitting as it does the great petrosal or Vidian nerve, has received the name of the Vidian canal. The internal pterygcnd {)late is marked at its base in- ternally by a minute opening which, when the bone is articulated with the palatal, is converted into a canal known as the p)tery(jo-palatine canal for the artery and nerve of the same name. The space between the greater and lesser wings is of an irregular form, broader at the body of the bone than at the outer end, where it is narrowed to a mere chink. This space in the separate bone has received the name of the spihenoidal fissure, and in the skull the anterior lacerated forarncn. It transmits the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, the ophthalmic branch of the fifth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Structure.—The structure of the sphenoid bone, as already mentioned, is for the most part spongy. The greater wing with the exception of the horizontal plate is composed of thick vascular spongy tissue. In skulls that have been much weathered this tissue be- comes exposed, and may be-eroded to a great extent. The pterygoid process at its base, and including in great part the innej" plate, is also spongy. The lesser wings are compact. Development.—The sphenoid bone develops from thirteen to fifteen centres of ossification, viz., one for each greater wing, inclusive of the external pterygx)id