THE LIGAMENTS. 240 THE JOINTS AND When tins muscle contracts, while the weight of the body is borne upon the foot, the check ligaments to the motion of the astragalus are made more tense.— The line of motion in torsion is determined at the medio-tarsal joint. When outward torsion is effected without weight being thrown on the foot, the foot is said to be pronated. In talipes valgus the pronation is extreme and persistent. In pronation the motion is checked by the superior calcaneo-scaphoid and astragalo-scaphoid ligaments. In females pronation is more pronounced than in males. In the motion opposite to the above the foot is said to be snpinated. The superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is relaxed, and the internal calcaneo-cuboid is tense. Supina- tion is the congenital position of the foot. Extreme and fixed supination constitutes talq^es varus. The medio-tarsal joint corresponds to nearly a trans- verse line, so that the foot can here be easily disar- ticulated. THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS BETWEEN THE TARSUS AND THE METATARSUS. The joints between the tarsus and the metatarsus are three in number :— One between the first cuneiform bone and the corresponding metatarsal bone. It is convex proxi- mally, concave distally, and longer from the dorsal to the plantar surface than from side to side. One between the second and the third cuneiform bones and the corresponding metatarsal bones. It is slightly convex proximally, concave distally at its median, but nearly fiat at its lateral half. One between the cuboid bones and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It is concave proximally and convex distally. Each of the above joints is furnished with a sepa- rate synovial sac. The synovial membranes of the tarso-metatarsal articulation are arranged as follows: one sac intervenes between the first cuneiform bone and the corresponding metatarsal bone. The second is a large sac between the second and the third cunei- form bones and the cuboid above, and the outer four metatarsal bones below, between the heads of which it may send small prolongations. The middle and external cuneiform, and the sec- ond and third metatarsal bones may possess a sac sepa- rate from that between the cuboid and the outer two metatarsal bones, as seen in fig. 2, Plate XLII. The ligaments between the tarsus and the meta- tarsus are— The Superior Ligaments. The Inferior Ligaments. The Interosseous Ligaments. The Superior (dorsal) Ligaments are seven in num- ber. The most internal of these unites the first cuneiform bone to the first metatarsal. The three following unite the first, the second, and the third cuneiform bone to the second metatarsal bone ; a sepa- rate ligament passes from the third cuneiform bone to the third metatarsal. Fascicles pass from the cuboid bone to the fourth and the fifth metatarsal bones. The Inferior (plantar) Ligaments. The crowded condition of the narrowed inferior borders of the second and the third cuneiform bones, together with the corresponding border of the cuboid, renders the inferior ligament less regular than the superior, but it follows the rule of the ligaments of the foot. elsewhere in being more powerful. Those uniting the relatively enormous surfaces of the first cuneiform and the first metatarsal, as well as those of the adjoining bones, are stouter than the remaining ligaments. In addition to the above, bands of variable size pass from the first cuneiform to the second and the third metatarsals. The region is protected by the tendons of the Tibi- alis Posticus and the Peroneus Longus muscles. The ligaments passing from between the bones at the cuboid-metatarsal joint are unimportant. The most striking is a band of inconstant size extending between the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones under the cuboid bone. The Interosseous Ligaments are two in number—the internal and the external. The internal^ the longer of the two, extends from the first cuneiform bone to the opposite side of the second metatarsal close to the articular facet. The external extends between the outer side of the third cuneiform borne to the inner side of the fourth metatarsal. A slip of this band also passes to its own metatarsal bone. THE INTER-METATARSAL JOINTS AND LIGAMENTS. The metatarsal bones are connected with one an- other at both the distal and the proximal ends. The ligaments, as in the case of the tarso-metatarsal, are divided into— The Superior Ligaments. The Inferior Ligaments. The Interosseous Ligaments. The Transverse Ligaments. The Superior (dorsal) Ligaments are delicate bands directed transversely. The most internal pass from the first to the second bones; the middle from the