THE BONES. 150 maniacs and in suicides; and that subjective noises in tiie ears are at times associated with a narrowed foramen, especially when a wide bulbiis of the jugu- lar vein exists. An eddying current of blood is hereby created, it is thought, the sound of which is conducted to the labyrinth.' The carotid canal is defined only when the bones are articulated. The inferior orifice is confined en- tirely to the petrous portion of the temporal bone. The superior orifice lies above the petro-basilar fissures at the middle lacerated foramen, as seen upon the in- terior base. The base of the skull, as has been seen from the foregoing, will have connection with the face through the horizontal plate of the frontal bone, with the pharynx through the basilar portiou of the occipital and the body of the sphenoid bone, and with the necl^ in the region behind the foramen magnum. The base has been divided by writers on topographi- cal anatomy by regions answering measurably to the above subdivision. Thus the palatal or facial—gut- tural or pharyngeal and occipital portions are de- scribed. But in practice little or no advantage accrues from following such an arrangement of parts. In seeking for the lesions of fracture, it is true, the base may be considered as a whole, but for all other clinical purposes it is best to ignore it. The palatal region is included in the face; the occipital becomes post- atlantal, and is included in the region of the neck. The so-called guttural region forms the base of the skull as distinguished from the adjacent regions. Clinically restricted, when a tumor is stated as having its origin at the base of the skull, that por- tion immediately above the pharynx is intended. For the location of disease at the base of the skull the following division will be found worthy of con- sideration. By connecting the apices of the mastoid processes a line will be described which traverses each of the occipital condyles at its middle. This line will include the points of insertion of the muscles turning the head, as well as the region of the fulcrum at which the motion occurs. Behind and in front of this line lie the muscles which bow and retract the head. It therefore represents a region to be specially studied in all cases in which impairment of motion of the head or of the neck is a conspicuous sign. A second line extending forward from the digastric groove of the mastoid process to the inner plate of the pterygoid process will lie directly to the inner ' S. Moos, Archiv of Oplitli. and Otol., v. 478. side of the oblique line of processes—the styloid, vagi- nal, spinous—and will retain all the foramina. Thus the jugular foramen and the beginning of the carotid canal lie directly upon the line, while the spinous and oval foramina lie immediately to the outer side. This line divides the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone into two natural parts; the part to the lateral side of the line is related to the front of the neck and the face; that to the median side is connected with the pharynx. A tumor located at the lateral side of the line would involve the cheek-tissue, and in all likelihood be excluded from the base of the skull by the recorder. One arising from the median side would be as certainly described as connected with the base of the skull. The Sutures of the Base.—The sutures of the base include the cranio-facial sutures; the squamoso- sphenoidal is seen traversing the zygomatic fossa ; this division of the squamoso-sjjhenoidal suture is observed to be continuous with the sqnamoso-iyrnpanic suture at the glenoidal fissure; in the median line is the hasilo- sphenoidul suture. The straight, non-serrate p)etroso- sphenoidal suture lies at the bottom of the sul- cus for the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. Next in order is thepetroso-basi^.ar suture at the bottom of the groove of the same name. It is a nearly straight, smooth junction. The horizontal limb of the occipito-mastoid suture is next seen. It is a nearly straight sutural line extending from about the centre of the digastric groove to the posterior lacerated foramen. Structube.—In the occipital bone between the condyles and the jugular processes, in the petrous por- tion of the temporal bone in great part, and in the horizontal portion of the greater wings of the sphe- noid the base of the skull is compact. It is spongy in the occipital condyles, in the basilar processes, in the pterygoid processes in great part, and in the jugular and the mastoid processes. The last two processes, together with the posterior projection from the base of the pterygoid processes bordering upon the middle lacerated foramen, are noticeable for the coarseness of the interspaces. In fractures of the skull, the under surface of the frontal lobes of the brain and the rounded end of the spheno-temporal lobes are often found torn and bruised, even when the lines of fracture do not corre- spond to the seats of brain-lesion. This is not likely to occur under the cerebellum or pons, owing to the large lymph-cavities there present.