THE BONES. 140 ^OO^Jooc sents a robust, rounded border, which is separated from the basal portion of the body by the angle. The outer surface of the ramus is in great part roughened for the attachment of the Masseter muscle. It pre- sents two conspicuous processes, the coronoid in front and the condyloid behind. Between them is a deep hollow, the sigmoid notch. The median aspect of the ramus is conspicuously marked by the posterior dental foramen for the entrance of the inferior dental nerve and artery. The anterior margin of this opening is produced into a thin plate of bone, pointing back- ward, which gives attachment to the deep fold of deep fascia known as the internal lateral ligament. The canal between the anterior and the posterior dental foramina is termed the dental canal. It passes beneath the alveolar process, and sends veins and bloodvessels to the teeth. At its beginning it lies near the inner surface of the bone, but towards the first molar tooth it holds a more central position in the jaw, and ends abruptly externally at the merited foramen. The coronoid process is flat and pointed. It is di- rected slightly forward. It is thin at its upper por- tion, but thicker below. Its front edge is nearly straight, and presents at its base behind the third molar tooth a groove, within which is held a slip of the Temporal muscle, as well as the Buccinator muscle. Its posterior edge is thin, and continuous with the curve of the sigmoid notch. The lateral surface is de- voted to the insertion of the Temporal and Masseter muscles, and the median to the Temporal alone. The condyloid process^ more massive than the coro- noid, is a continuation of the posterior free margin of the ramus. It presents for examination a neck and an articular surface. The neck corresponds to that portion of the process directly below the articular. It is compressed from behind forward, and receives at its inner portion a shallow depression for the Exter- nal Pterygoid muscle. The outer margin of the neck is marked by a minute rounded process, the tubercle for attachment of the external lateral ligament. The articular surface is convex from before backward, abruptly arched from within outward. It is often angulated at a point answering to the axis of the ramus. The articular surface is directed inward and somewhat backward. The production of the lines of inclination of the two surfaces would cause them to intersect each-other at the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. Eemarks.—The inferior maxilla can be studied with great advantage for practical purposes from the following points of view: («) As divided into a right and a left half; as divided into the alveolar portion as one part, and the remainder of the bone as another; (c) as divided into a region of muscular impressions as one part, and the remaining non-muscular region as the other; (cZ) as divided bj the mylo-hyoid ridge iwio facial relations (^. e. all the parts above the ridge and the entire outer surface of the bone) and cervical (i. e. all the parts below the ridge); (e) as compared with a long bone, especially with reference to the localization of tumors. (a) The lower jaio as divided into a right and a left half.—The lower jaw, in common with other sym- metrical parts of the skeleton, exhibits those curious connections between physiological and morbid action often witnessed in the long bones. This symmetrical distribution of disease is disturbed, however, by the union of the halves of the bone at the symphysis. It is probable that in lower mammals, such as the ruminants and the marsupials, in which the halves never unite, the symmetrical distribution of disease might be found better expressed than in man. The following instances may be cited to show that disease tends to occupy the sides of the jaw rather than the median line, and that excesses of nutrition are apt to occur on either side of the symphysis in an equal degree. In confirmation of the latter statement, we may refer to those extraordinary developments of symmetrical hyperostosis recorded by Lebert^ and Murchison ;^ and in proof of the former, to the clinical fact that growths of all kinds are vastly more common on the sides than on the median portion of the jaw. The only examples known to the writer, of a growth beginning on one side of the bone and passing across the median line, are the following: first, a tumor termed by Prof Gross^ hematoid which began on the left side just behind the cuspid tooth, and passed across the line of sj'-mphysis as far as the lateral inci- sor of the right; and second, the one described by Mutter,^ which occupied the symphysis and about two- thirds of the left ramus of the bone. HyrtP alludes to a case of exostosis of the sj^mphysis. (5) The lower jaio as divided into the alveolus as one part, and the remainder of the lone as another.—This division is an important one to remember, for the fol- lowing reasons: The alveolus is developed Avith the teeth and disappears with the teeth ; it is an out- growth from the jaw for a specific temporary purpose. ' Atlas, pi. xxxii. fig. 1. 2 Trans. Path. Soc. London, xvii. 243, pi. 10, xii. 3 System of Surgery, i. 485. * Amer. ed. of Liston's Surgery, 299. 5 Topograpli. Auatomie, i. 324.