AND THE THE JOINTS 234 LIGAMENTS. ooo^OOc that Meyer has given to it. This movement of the knee is seen, it is thought, in the act of raising the leg and bringing it over the thigh of the opposite side. Rotatory movements of the knee are limited by the crucial and the capsular ligaments. Extremes of flexion and extension are liable to be followed by rupture. The lesions of this class have been formulated by L. Dittel' as the result of ex- periments upon the dead body. This observer, by forcibly flexing the knee in a specimen prepared by removal of the muscles, found that the anterior crucial ligament ruptured at its femoral attachment. By placing the knee of a similarly prepared limb over the interval between two blocks, a violent blow with a mallet (thus imitating the force of hyper-extension) caused in some instances rupture of the posterior cru- cial ligament at its femoral attachment.—In another series of experiments a strong man placed the lower extremity of the subject over his shoulder with the posterior surface of the knee upward, and induced hyper-extension of the knee by forcibly dragging the leg downward. This experiment performed upon a young individual separated the tibial epiphysis pos teriorly, the ligaments remaining for the most part uninjured; upon old individuals the femoral con- dyles irregularly fractured the tibial articular sur- faces, the ligaments, as before, being preserved intact. If in the latter experiment the leg was carried at a right angle to the femur, both crucial ligaments were found ruptured,—the anterior at its femoral, the pos- terior at its tibial attachment.—In forced abduction of the extended joint the internal lateral ligament was found ruptured in the middle, or at the tibial or femo- ral end. In forced adduction similar lesions occurred in the external lateral ligament. Movement outward is checked by a band of the capsule which has received the name of the lateral accessory Uyament of Henle, while movement inward is checked by an analogous band on the median side of the joint called the median accessory ligament of Henle. Rotations in the extremes of extension and flexion are checked by the crucial ligaments, partic- ularly by the anterior. The knee, while thus seen to be capable of extreme flexion, does not possess this function so exactly as does the elbow joint, with which of all the joints the knee can be most advantageously compared. In the elbow, for example, the Brachialis Anticus lies upon the flexor aspect, and determines an exact line of bending. No similar muscle is situated upon the ' Strieker's Med. Jahrbucher, 1876, 319. flexor surface of the knee. The flexors instead are placed at the sides, and are therefore modified flexors only, since they not only flex, but incline the limb toward the side where the bending forces are the strongest. The knee is further assisted in maintaining the apposition of its several parts by the fascia lata, espe- cially that portion which lies in direct line Avith the Tensor Yaginse Femoris muscle.^ Nerves.—The knee-joint receives upon its anterior surface a branch of the long saphenous nerve ; upon its external and anterior surface a branch of the peroneal nerve (this twig lies in company with an articular artery); externally and posteriorly by a twig of the anterior tibial nerve; internally (medianly) by a twig from the posterior tibial nerve; externally by a recur- rent branch of the deep branch of the peroneal nerve, while the interior of the joint through the posterior crucial ligament receives a branch of the posterior tibial nerve.^ The Tibio-fibular Articulations. The tibia and the fibula are joined (fig. 1, Plate XLII.) by two simple articulations called from their positions the superior and the inferior tibio-fibular joints. The superior tibio-fibular joint surfaces are oval in form, nearly flat, and obliquely disposed. The tibial surface is the larger, and looks downward and out- , ward. The synovial membrane is rather loose, and occasionally communicates with the sheath of the Popliteus muscle, and thence with the knee-joint. The tendon of the Biceps Femoris muscle is of equal value with the ligaments in maintaining the appo- sition between the facets of the joint. The superior ligaments are two in number— The Superior Anterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament. The Superior Posterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament. The Superior Anterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament is attached in front to the external condyle of the tibia, and passes downward and outward to be attached behind to the head of the fibula. The Superior Posterior Tibio-Fibular Ligament is a single thick, short band extending from the tibia at the lower border of the groove for the tendon of the Popliteus muscle to the head of the fibula. It is covered by the last-named muscle. ' For additional literature upon lesions of the ligaments, etc., of the knee, see A. Bruce, Trans. Path. Soc, London, vol. xviii.— Guy's Hosp. Reports, 1867. Lancet, 1859, ii. 240. 2 H. Meyer, Virchow's Arohiv., vol. xii. 124, 1857.