JOINTS AND LIGAJ ENTS OF TEUNK. 215 neck of the process. The posterior surface of the odontoid process is covered with cartilage for action with the anterior surface of the ligament. Extending from the upper part of the ligament to the occipital bone is a small vertical bundle of fibres, and downward from the ligament to the body of the axis a second bundle. These make, together with the transverse ligament, a cross-like structure, which has received the name of the crucial ligament. Eemarks.—According to Sappey, the odontoid pro- cess is held lightly within the grasp of the transverse ligament, so that if the other structures uniting the atlas and the axis are removed, the process can be inserted and withdrawn with ease. Luschka regards the transverse ligament as rep- resenting in part the unossified vertebra of the atlas. Should this view be accepted, the vertical ligaments above described may be considered as continuations of the posterior vertebral ligament. The Posterior Atlanto-Axoid Ligament (fig. 2, Plate XXXVI.) extends from the inferior border of the posterior arch of the atlas to the superior border and spine of the axis. The superficial portion is fibrous, and corresponds to the interspinous ligament of the lower vertebrae. The deeper portions contain elastic tissue, and are thought to be rudiments of the liga- menta subflava. The Capsular Ligaments (fig. 1, Plate XXXVII.) oc- cupv the interval between the occiput and the atlas, and between the atlas and the axis. They are simple environments of the articular surfaces with fibrous membrane, and do not difier from analogous joints else- where. They are least developed on the side toward the vertebral canal. The anterior occipito-atlantal articulation is strengthened by the lateral fibres of the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament. The Synovial Sacs. One of these exists between the odontoid process and the atlas, and another be- tween the posterior surface of the same process and the transverse ligament. The Anterior Atlanto-Axoid Ligament is a thin membranous structure extending between the lower border of the anterior arch of the atlas and the upper border of the body of the axis. The Posterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament extends from the posterior and the lateral margins of the fora- men magnum to the upper border of the posterior arch of the atlas, where midway between the occipital crest and the occipital condyle a tubercle of attach- ment is seen. Its deeper parts are continuous with the dura mater. The ligament extends between the posterior and the lateral margins of the foramen mag- num and the upper border of the posterior arch of the atlas. Its lateral portions are attached above to the tubercle which is seen about midway between the oc- cipital crest and the occipital condyle, and below to the posterior edge of the superior articular surface of the atlas. Toward the middle line the ligament closes in the vertebral canal. This portion is made tense when the head is flexed. The Occipito-Axoid Ligament (fig. 2, Plate XXXVI.) is a broad membranous structure extending between the anterior margin of the foramen magnum and the body of the axis. It is in close connection with the dura mater above, and is continuous with the poste- rior vertebral ligament below. Between it and the crucial ligament lies a small plexus of veins. A few of the fibres of the occipito-axoid ligament may serve to strengthen the transverse ligament of the atlas. The Anterior Occipito-Atlantal Ligament consists of a firm, strong membrane, extending from the anterior margin of the foramen magnum to the upper margin of the anterior arch of the atlas. It is strengthened in the middle by a distinct rounded band, which is attached to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. This is described by some writers as the anterior cervical ligament, and is supposed by them to be the beginning of the anterior vertebral ligament. The ligament is pierced-by the vertebral artery. The Odontoid (Check, Lateral, Alar) Ligaments (fig. 2, Plate XXXVI.) are short, stout, oblique bands, which arise from the tubercle to the inner side of the occipital condyles. They pass downward and inward, and are inserted into the sides of the odontoid process. Occasionally the fibres intercross in front of the head of the process. Attached to the tip of the odontoid process is an unimportant band of fibres, which unites the axis to the anterior margin of the foramen mag- num. It is designed chiefly to cover the space between the top of the atlas and the occipital bone. The closely united interlacing fibres constitute the transverse occipital ligament of Lauth. The Temporo-Maxillary Joint. The temporo-maxillary articulation (figs. 1, 2, 3, Plate XXXVII.) is composed of the upper surface of