THE UPPER from the entire upper border of the neck. It ascends on the level of the plane of the neck as far as the upper border of the bone, whence it is abruptly de- flected downward and forward to end in a narrowed tip. Above, the coracoid process is roughened for the attachment of the acromio-coracoid and the co- raco-clavicular ligaments. Exteriorly it yields a point of insertion for the Pectoralis Minor muscle, and of origin for the conjoined head of the Coraco-Brachialis muscle and the short head of the Biceps. The cora- coid process acts as a check to the inward movements of the head of the humerus, and unless the process be broken subclavicular dislocation can scarcely occur. The process is homologous with the coracoid bone of batrachians, reptiles, and birds. As seen in these animals, the coracoid bone extends between the ster- num and the scapula very much after the manner of the clavicle in the human subject. The spine extends transversely to the plane of the dorsum at its upper third. It is of a triangular form, its face being outward; it begins by a smooth space on a level with the dorsum at the vertebral border of the bone (sometimes called the root of the spine), over which the Trapezius muscle glides; thence it inclines slightly upward as it reaches the region of the neck, to terminate abruptly below in a thickened rounded edge; above it widens, and is continuous with the acromion. The upper surface of the spine is concave for the Supra-Spinatus muscle; the lower is inclined upward for the Infra-Spinatus muscle. The Trape- zius muscle is attached to the edge of the spine above and to the Deltoid below. The acromion is the name given to the tip of the spine as it overlooks the neck of the scapula. The space between the acromion and the neck has received the name of the yreat scapular notch. The acromion is a broad flattened process deflected toward the coracoid process, the plane of whose tip it reaches, and it is curved con- centrically to the head of the humerus, which it helps to retain in position. The axillary rounded border of the acromion is continuous with the lower margin of the spine, and gives origin to the middle fibres of the Deltoid muscle ; the vertebral border (upper, external) is continuous with the upper mar- gin of the spine, and is furnished with an oval smooth facet for articulation with the clavicle. The inclination of this facet upward and backward ac- counts for the difficulty of retaining in position the scapular end of the clavicle after its dislocation. EXTEEMITY. 171 here radiate from the glenoid cavity toward the ver- tebral border. They are intersected by a number of laminae that are more or less concentric with the plane of the articular surface. When it is remembered that no weight is borne by the scapula, the arrangement of cancelli of the neck can have relations with forces exerted from below only—namely, from the humerus. The pressure of the head of the last-named bone against the lower half of the glenoid cavity is very great when the arm is elevated by the Deltoid and the Supra- Spinatus muscles. The object of the cancelli in the scapular neck is to receive and distribute through the scapula the results of such pressure. Spongy tissue is also seen in the coracoid process, acromion, and spine, and at the borders and inferior angle of the bone. The greater part of the supra- and infra-spinous fossae are thin and diaphanous. Development.—The scapula arises from eight cen- tres of ossification, as follows: one for the body, which appears at the eighth week ; one for the cora- coid process, which appears at the first year; and one for the glenoid cavity, embracing the supra-glenoid tubercle. These three centres are primary. The re- mainder are accessory centres, and may be thus briefly enumerated : one for the base of the acromion, ap- pearing at the fifteenth year; one for the tip of the acromion, appearing at the sixteenth year; one for the base of the coracoid, at the seventeenth year ; one for the inferior angle of the bone, at the sixteenth year ; and one for the posterior border, at the seven- teenth year. The centres for the acromion unite with the spine from the twenty-second to the twenty-fifth year. The marginal epiphyses unite with the body at about the twenty-fifth year. The acromion may exist as a distinct bone. In disjunction of the acro- mial centre it is not so often the entire acromion as it is the portion bearing the facet that is separate.^ Even in the normally constituted bone the acromial centre can be distinguished; inferiorly it is of coarser texture than the spine, and everywhere pitted.— The coracoid process beyond the plane of the ujiper border of the bone is less frequently seen separated than is the acromion. It becomes a very important point to distinguish such a condition from fracture of the coracoid. While it is true that fracture of the process may occur at the point of junction of the centre and the base of the process, it is equally true that it is not apt to occur—the line of fracture Structure.—-The scapula presents the strongest arrangement of the cancelli at the neck. The lines ' H. Ruge. Zeitschr. fiir rationale Med., 1859, 258. W. Gruber. Bull, de I'Acad. de St. Petersbourg, 1859.