THE BONES. 142 ■ 000^00= sertion of the Digastric muscle at the small digastric fossa, and of the Genio-Hjoid group at the genial spine, the muscles here (viz., the Mylo-Hyoid muscle within, at the ridge of the same name, and the Depres- sor Anguli Oris and the Platysma Myoides muscles at the mental process withoxit) constitute an unimportant element. It is particularly with the ascending ramus that the muscular impressions are found to be of value in the study of lesions and diseased action. In the first place, the Masseters act as external cushions protect- ing the jaw from direct violence, while the Pterygoids act as internal cushions to prevent bilateral disloca- tion. In the second, the direct influence exerted on the shape of the angle by the Internal Pterygoid is often very marked. A condition known as incurva- tion of the angle is frequently seen in welhmarked specimens of the lower jaw. It was at one time thought that this peculiarity stamped the individual as an example of a low type of man. It is a curious fact (only noteworthy from its liability to deceive in attempting such generalizations) that the same incur- vation of the angle is a constant character in the jaw of the marsupials—a low group of the mammalia. Another feature of importance is the fixity of the ascending ramus by the contraction of the masticatory muscles. Other things being equal, the position of elevation or depression of the lower jaw will make the dift'erence between a dislocation and a fracture. If the jaw at the time of the injury be elevated, the bone is apt to be broken by the direct violence ap- plied to it; if, however, it be depressed, it is more apt to be dislocated. The ensuing case is of value in illustration of this principle, since the lines of frac- ture were doubtless determined by the fixed position of the jaw.^ A young man whilst plowing was thrown down by his bullocks running away, and the coulter, catching his throat, tore away the entire horizontal portion and more than half of the right ramus of the lower jaw. " A lacerated wound extended from the right mastoid process across the throat nearly to the left angle of the jaw ; this at its posterior origin had entirely divided the whole breadth of the Sterno- •Gleido-Mastoid muscle; from the right angle of the jaw to near the chin it divided the floor of the mouth. It was also met b}^ an oblique laceration from the left commissure of the lips, which had quite torn through and divided the cheek. The inferior maxilla was fractured on both sides, on the right more than half- ' J. Thomson, Edin. Med. Joariial, 1861, vii. way up the ramus. The bone thus broken and torn out of the face was very much denuded of soft parts, and at each fractured extremity was, to some extent, laid bare of periosteum." Six wrecks after the injury, the right side of the face was paralyzed; the eye could not be closed, nor the mouth entirel3^—The specimen embraced the entire horizontal portion of the jaw, and more than half of the ran^ius of the right side. The ramus had loeen fractured obliquely backward and downward from the root of the coronoid process to the middle of the posterior edge. On the left side the fracture extended obliquely across the angle, from behind the socket of the second molar tooth to just in front of the posterior part of the angle of the jaw. According to Hamilton,^ fracture of the condyloid process almost always occurs just below the insertion of the External Pterygoid muscle. {d) The lower jaw as divided hij the myh-hyoid ridge into two groups of relationships—one above (facial), the other below (cervical).—The Mylo-Hyoid muscle is the floor of the mouth, and abruptly separates the inner aspect of the curve of the body from the rest of the bone. The relations of this region are entirely with the neck. (e) The loiver jaw as compared to a long bone.—The lower jaw resembles a long bone in having compact bone without and cancelli loithin; in having a well- defined canal (somewhat comparable to a nutritive foramen) entering it obliquely; and in having an active periosteum. It conspicuously differs from.a long bone in the absence of an epiphysis. The bone is thus deprived of an epiphysial period, which is so prolific in morbid processes. The e^ids of the lower jaw (i. e. the articular surfaces) are peculiarly exempt from disease, the very opposite to what is seen in long bones. The only known instance of restricted disease at these points is caries, Avith subsequent hyperostosis. Mr. Tatum^ briefly describes a unique case of fluid in the temporo-maxillary articulation escaping into the external meatus following a lesion of the latter.—The lower jaw also differs from a long bone in retaining contact with mucous membrane. When in fractures of the lower jaw the gum is deeply lacerated, the frac- ture at once becomes compound. The ease with which this can occur, and the consequent frequency of this occurrence, place maxillary fractures in a group en- tirely distinct from that of other bones. It has been asserted (and on good grounds) that the contact of the air and saliva between the ends of the broken bone • Treatise, on Fractures and Dislocations. 2 Lancet, 1860, ii. 536.