194 THE BONES. ooo^oxx, At the distal end substantially the same arrange- ment exists as in the radius and ulna. Langerhaus describes the cancelli as made of a series of lines ar- ranged either vertically to the articular surface or slightly converging to it; they are intersected by weak transverse lines. The arrangement varies in detail in the internal malleolus, as contrasted with the proper axial articular surface of the bone. The details of the epiphysis are measurably distinct from those of the shaft. Development.—The tibia arises from three cen- tres of ossification. One for the shaft, which appears at the fifth or seventh week. One for the upper epiphysis at the ninth month of foetal life. One for the lower epiphysis at the second year. The last joins the shaft at the twentieth year, and the first at the twenty fifth. The tubercle very rarely arises from a centre of ossification separate from the proxi- mal epiphysis. When tlie shaft of the tibia is much compressed from side to side, as occurs in some savage and prim- itive races of men, it receives the name of the flat or platecnemic tibia.—The upper articular surfaces are sometimes placed obliquely to the axis of the shaft in such wise as to present the median surface on a higher plane than the lateral. This disposition of parts is commonly if not always found in limbs in which the position of extreme flexion has been main- tained for a long time —In chronic rheumatoid arthritis the spaces behind and in front of the tibial spine are obliterated by new bony growths. Remarks.—Separation of the epiphysis of the distaP end of the tibia has been observed by R. W. Smith and R. Quain in lads sixteen and seventeen years of age. In this condition the internal malleolus will preserve its natural relations to the foot, but not to the leg or outer ankle. M. De Morgan^ records a case of detach- ment of the tubercle of the tibia by muscular action in a boy of seventeen years. Deep-seated abscess of the bone is relatively frequent at about the junction of the upper portion of the bone with the shaft.—The tibia is liable to extraordinary deformation in rickets, owincr to the fact that the resistance of the weight of the body is to a great degree transferred to it from the foot.—Exostoses may arise from the points of origin and insertion of muscles at the upper third of the bone.—From its peculiarly exposed situation, the anterior surface of the middle third of the shaft 1 British Med. Jouin., Aug. 1867, 123. - 2 Med. Times and Gazette, 1853, 2G8. is a frequent seat of the changes incident to chronic ostitis and necrosis. THE FIBULA. The fibula (figs. 4, 5, Plate XXXIV.) is a long slen- der bone placed to the outer side of the tibia with which it is in articulation at its two extremities. Below it joins the astragalus at the outer side. Its position as compared with that of the tibia is slightly oblique from above downward and forward. It is slightly twisted inferiorly. The inferior extremity is thus placed a little in advance of the upper, at the same time that the lovv'er half is directed inward toward the tibia. The fibula con.sists of a shaft and an upper and a lower extremity. The ujiper extremity consists of a head, a neck, and a styloid process. The head is a rounded prominence exhibiting an oblique proximal surface directed down- ward and inward, and is distinguished by an oval facet (often inconspicuous) for articulation with the tibia. Laterally and posteriorly the head is subcuta- neous in part. Along its free surface the Soleus and Peroneus Longus muscles arise. Behind the superior posterior tibio-fibular ligament is attached, and in front the superior anterior tibio fibular ligament. The nech is a term conventionally applied to that por- tion of the shaft immediately below the head. Strictly speaking, it has no limitation. The styloid process of the fibula is directed proximally along the lateral side of the bone, and is designed for the attachment of the tendon of the Biceps muscle, and the short external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The shaft of the fibula is slender and more robust in the middle third than elsewhere. It is prismoidal and somewhat triangular in its upper two-thirds; irre- gularly lozenge-shaped in its middle third, and ellipti- cal in its lower third. The shaft presents for exami- nation three borders, three surfaces, and the ridge for the interosseous membrane. The anterior larder ex- tends from near the b.ead to the lower third in a sharp, straight, well-defined line. As it approaches the lower third of the bone, it inclines outward and bifur- cates, the inner branch of the bifurcation continuing as a straight line to the lower extremity, the outer diverging downward and outward to terminate on the outer surface of the external malleolus. The external larder is more rounded than the anterior; it passes downward along the outer border to the lower third of the shaft, where it turns slightly backward to con- stitute the posterior border of the lower third. It