209 GENERAL C O N SID E E A T10 N S. Symphysis permits of a slight motion only between the bones united by its means. When a number of small bones, as the vertebrae, are thus joined, the mo- tion between any two is inconsiderable, but is natu- rally greater when the joints between all the bones act together. The motions of the vertebral column are by this means shown to be great; for the back- bone can be flexed, extended, and bent from side to side. At the pubis the union enables a slight out- ward stretching to occur in child-birth. The surfaces liere may also glide slightly upon one another, especially if the synovial sac is developed. DlARTHROSls. In diarthrosis the opposed bony surfaces are concavo-convex. The bones are free ;- the synovial membrane constant; the capsule loose, and ordinarily strengthened by muscles and acces- sory ligaments. The joints of the limbs are exclu- sively of this character. They range from the sim- plest to the most complicated forms. So great is the motion permitted in diarthrosis, that all the surfaces of a given joint are never in contact with one another at the same time. In each particular position assumed, in passing from complete flexion to complete exten- sion, opposite facets, that are specially adapted to maintain such position, are brought in contact with each other. Such areas of contact change successively as the path of movement (by which term is meant the direction taken by a given articular surface in gliding over another) is followed. In the knee-joint, for example, it is found that in flexion the tibio- femoral facets near the posterior aspect of the joint are in contact, while the anterior surfaces are separated. In like manner, during extension the anterior surfaces are in contact, while the posterior are separated. The parts in contact may be said to be active, and those not in contact to be at rest. In addition to the above it may be seen that one of the bones composing the joint is fixed or inclines to be, while the other moves upon it. The fixed portion furnishes the axis of rotation. The plane on which the moving bone swings is the plane of motion^ and moves in certain relations to the axis of rotation according to the special shapes of the joint surfaces. Thus in a rotary joint the plane of motion is called the plane of rotation^ and in a hinge joint the plane of flexion or extension.—A pair of corresponding facets which are known to be active in certain posi- tions of the joint may be called after the kinds of activity they are engaged in. Thus one can speak of facets of flexion, or the facets of extension, etc. When the convexity is proximal, and the concavity 27 distal, as in the astragalo-scaphoidal joint, the idea of the convexity restiny within or upon the concavity is suggested ; whereas, when the concavity is proxi- mal, and the convexity is distal, as in the shoulder- joint, the idea of the convexity falling away, or swinging within the concavity, is suggested. The former of these joints expresses a state of rest; the latter one of motion. The proper method of studying the motions of diarthrodial articulations is as follows :— (1) The simplest form of an articulation is that in which the distal facet of one bone is in the same axis as the proximal facet of the opposed bone. Such joints may be termed primary joints^ and the two cor- responding facets, primary facets. In the knee-joint it is found that the longitudinal axis answers to the outer femoral condyle, and hence the pjrimary facet is to be found upon this surface; while the facet formed upon the inner femoral condyle is not primary, but secondary^ and is a special feature added to the primary character of the joint.—The articular surfaces upon the sides of certain bones, as those between the tarsal and the metatarsal bones, and between the tibia and the fibula, are of significance different from that of either of the preceding; tiiese may be termed the lateral or tertiary facets. A joint may be said to be at rest when the least amount of pressure exists between its opposed facets. It has been already noted above that extremes of extension and flexion fix a joint. The position of rest is ordinarily one between these two extremes, namely, the one termed semi-flexion. The supine position tends to rest the joints of the limbs, particularly those of the lower limb, since it removes the pressure of the weight of the body. If, however, the assumption that muscular action controls joint movements be correct, it follows that joints cannot be rested even in the supine position so long as their muscles are acting inordinately or in vicious directions. Hence the question of the rest of muscles enters into every problem of rest, and lies at the basis of all rational treatment of joint diseases. Any apparatus designed to keep the joint at rest must include all the muscles acting upon it. (2) The presence of a disk of fibro-cartilage between two cartilaginous articular surfaces tends to divide the joint, in a mechanical sense, into two cham.bers; in the knee there is a chamber between the femur and the disk on the one hand, and the disk and the tibia on the other. When it is remembered that these disks are,