200 THE BONES. :,0<>^^0oo talipes valgus^ either congenital or acquired, the head of the bone can be easily defined under the skin, owing to the relaxed condition of the ligaments. The inner border of the head is very prominent. Hueter has pointed out the fact that the neck of the astragalus in the infant is relatively longer than in the adult, and presents a nearly transverse scaphoid articular surface. The astragalus is the only bone in the tarsus with- out muscular attachment. The Cuboid Bone.—The cuboid bone is of an irregular cuboidal figure, broader behind than in front, and verging to the pyramidal form, since all its surfaces, excepting the median, slope toward the com- pressed lateral border. It is situated to the outer side of the foot, with the calcaneum behind, the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones in front, and the external cuneiform and scaphoid bone to the median side. It presents six surfaces for examination. The supe- rior surface is smooth, and covered by the Flexor Brevis Digitorum. The inferior (plantar) surface is grooved obliquely for the tendon of the Peroneus Longus; behind the groove is a broad tubercle for the attachment of the greater inferior calcaneo-cu- boid ligament. At the proximo-median angle is a rugosity for the attachment of the lesser inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The lateral surface is grooved obliquely for the Peroneus Longus muscle prior to its entering the plantar groove. The me- dicui surface is flat, and marked with an oval facet for articulation with the external cuneiform bone, and commonly by a facet contiguous with the foregoing for the scaphoid bone. It is also roughened for the attachment of ligaments. The distal surface is sub- triangular, and divided by a vertical ridge into two facets for the articulation of the fourth and the fifth metatarsal bones. The pjroximal surface is concave vertically, and convex from side to side to artic- ulate with the calcaneum. Holding the bone with the grooved under surface downward, and the concave articular surface backward, the compressed border marked by the groove for the Peroneus Longus muscle will point to the side to which the bone belongs. The Scaphoid Bone.—The scaphoid or navicular bone is placed on the inner side of the foot, having the astragalus behind it, the cuneiform bones in front, and the cuboid bone to the lateral side. It is compressed from behind forward, thicker below than above, and slightly inclined from beneath upward and outward. Above, the proximal surface is concave and pear-shaped, for articulation for the most part with the head of the astragalus. The anterior surface is curved transversely, and divided by two faintly marked, diverging ridges, defining three facets for articulation with the correspond- ing cuneiform bones. The median surface is broad, free, and somewhat roughened for the attachment of ligaments. The lateral surface is compressed, and commonly presents an uneven surface for articula- tion with the cuboid bone. The inferior surface is for the most part occupied by a pronounced tuberosity for the insertion in part of the Tibialis Posticus muscle. To the outer side of this prominence lies a narrow surface for the attachment of the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. According to Cruveilhier, the tuberosity may be greatly enlarged, and has been mistaken for an exostosis. It serves as a guide to the astragalo-scaphoid articulation. Holding the bone with the concave surface toward the observer, and the thickened end down, the narrow, roughened, lateral surface will point toward the side to which the bone belongs. Remarks.—In pronounced talipes varus the tubcr rosity is in contact with the inner malleolus. The long axis of the bone is parallel with the long axis of the leg, instead of being at right angles to it. In talipes equinus, the scaphoid is drawn somewhat toward the plantar surface. The Cuneiform Bones.—The three cuneiform bones are so named from the resemblance each bears to the figure of the wedge. They are lodged between EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXV. Fig. \. The bones of the foot in articulation, seen from above. Fig. 2. The bones of the foot in ai ticulation, seen from beneath. Fig. 3. The bones of the foot in articulation, seen fi'om tlie median side.