THE JOINTS 210 LIGAMENTS. AND THE cOCp^OOo primarily, outgrowths from the capsule in the mo- tions of which they participate, and into which, as in the external inter-articular disk of the knee-joint, they project, it is seen that these disks are impor- tant factors in the movements of the articulations. When the living subject is standing erect, and the weight of the body is thrown chiefly upon the outer femoral condyle, the action of flexion is initiated by the change in position of the external disk, by means of which the tibia is moved slightly inward, and placed in a favorable position for gliding backward or inward along the inner femoral condyle. Flexion indicates the position of the limb in which the most acute angle possible exists between its seg- ments.^ Extension is the reverse of flexion; it is the position in which the angulation between the seg- ments is the least possible. If extension is carried beyond 180°, dorsal flexion begins. In flexion and extension, viewed as one movement, a form of rotation is seen, the distal end of the movable bone describing a wide arc of a circle about that of the fixed bone. notation is a movement of a bone upon itself in its longitudmal axis, as in the motion of the radius on the ulna. "When rotation occurs with the limb de- scribing a circle it is called circumduction^ and is the direct transmutation of one position of flexion into another, and the rotation of one or both bones in any position which the two bones may effect toward each other. Adduction is the traction of the part toward the median line. Abduction is the traction of the part away from the median line. When a movable articulation becomes immovable it is said to be fixed, and the passage from one to the other condition is controlled by muscular action. The arthrodial variety of diarthrosis; or THE FLAT JOINTS.—In this, the simplest form of diar- throsis, the surfaces are so slightly concavo-convex that they have been described by some writers as plane. In the assertion often made that the apposed surfaces of some bones are almost flat, we have no proper distinction drawn between the infinitely large varieties which can be created by slightly modifying nearly flat surfaces. It would be more accurate to say that such bones are opposed to one another by slight- ly concave and slightly convex surfar-es, and that ' For examination of tumors in position of flexion see Gross's System of Surgery, 5tli ed. 1872, ii. 1065. tlia motions between such surfaces do not glide so much as they rotate one upon the other, and are thus seen not to difter in kind from any other form of diarthrosis. In a joint of this kind the movement is necessarily slight. Examples of arthrodial joints are seen between the oblique processes of the verte- bra?,' and the joints between some of the bones of the carpus and the tarsus. The spherical variety op diarthrosis (ball- and-socket joint, or Enarthrodia). The convexity is marked in this form, and the-concavity is smaller than it. Such a joint possesses many axes of rotation. It is with such that circumduction occurs. The hip and shoulder are examples of the spherical joint. It maintains on all sides an equal degree of motion.^ The cylindrical variety op diarthrosis.— The convexity in this division is broad and elliptical, and suggests the form of the condyle. The cylindrical joints are divided into the («) hinge joint or ginglymus; (b) the screw joint; and (c) the saddle joint. (a) The Hinge Joint (ginglymus).—This is the best expression of a cylindroid joint. The axis of rotation is perpendicular to the axis of the moving bone, or, as in the case of the elbow, the axes of two bones, the radius and ulna, since both of these describe curva- tions round the axis of rotation. The paths of movement of the hinge joint are free within certain limits. These degrees of freedom are of necessity fixed by the direction of the greatest convexity. The co-operation of the surfaces is exact. (5) The Screw Joint (spiral joint).—In some facets of the more complex cylindrical joints the axis of the oblong convex surface falls obliquely to the axis of the concavity in which it plays. Such, for example, is the oblique facet on the inner condyle of the femur. (c) The Saddle Joint.—Tliis is so called from the resemblance its surfaces bear to those of a saddle. Each articular surface is convex in one direction, and concave in the opposite. The saddle joint is peculiar in presenting its apposed concave portion in such fashion as to tend to embrace the convexity of the proximal one. The saddle joint can be flexed, ex- tended, abducted, and ad ducted, and, as a result of these varied movements, circumducted. It effects on the plan of the hinge joint the movements of a ball- ■ Except the atlanto-axoid articnlation, q. v. ^ Tlie terms of the above definition are doubtless not mathe- matically accurate. The term "spheroidal" is more exact thau spherical. Of the two, the last-named is nevertheless preferred, since it is an equivalent of the term " ball-and-socket " in general use.