KULL. 155 TEE S the canine eminence to the ascending process of the superior maxilla, and thence it is received and dis- tributed hy the frontal bone to the cranial vault. The act of grinding demands a wide surface. This is secured by the divergent roots of the molar teeth, through which the force of the occlusion is diffused, and by the malar process, which conducts and dis- tributes the shock to the zygoma and the cranial vault. The act of cutting demands little osseous sup- port, and is accomplished entirely by the scissor-like action of the upper and the lower incisors against each other. The direct apposition of these teeth produces a decidedly unpleasant sensation. Disease and even death of the incisors may result from the habit (so common among seamstresses) of employing the incisor teeth in the position just named to bite off' threads. From the lines of conduction and resistance just mentioned, it is evident that there exist in the face two lines adapted to the conduction of shocks: one leading from the canine eminence through the ascend- ing process of the superior maxilla, and the other from the malar process of the same bone to the malar bone. The spaces inclosed between the canine teeth, and between each canine tooth and the malar process of the corresponding side and the malar bones, are not adapted to convey or resist shock. It is within these spaces that the eyes and nasal organs are placed, and the nerves and bloodvessels lie. Even in the lower jaw we find in the adult the mental foramen on the same vertical line with the infra-orbital and the supra- orbital foramina. The repeated occlusions of the lower jaw against the upper may be said to maintain the shape of the latter. When the lower jaw is re- moved the alveolar processes fall inward, notwith- standing that the hard palate remains intact. This is well illustrated in a case reported by Eibes^ of gun- shot wound of the lower part of the face in which the lower jaw was torn away. In extensive lesions of the face in which the lines of attachment between the immobile portion of the face and the brain-case have been severed, and yet the soft parts have been retained intact, the act of chew- ing becomes impracticable. The writer observed the case of a man who had incurred multiple fracture of the region of the face from a premature explosion of a blast: recovery from the immediate effects of the injury followed, but with absence of union between the face and the brain-case. The entire '"upper jaw" was freely movable. The patient was sustained by liquid food. Dr. Fyffe^ reports a case of disloca- ' Diet, des Sciences Nat., 1818, xxix., 425. " Lancet, 1863, ii., 64. tion of the bones of the foce with fracture, including marked movability of the upper jaw during degluti- tion. Surgical writers include in the term superior max- illa, or "upper jaw," parts embracing the palatal, infe- rior turbinate, and part of the ethmoid and the malar bones. The bones named are of necessity removed in the operation for excision of the superior maxilla. Viewed in this way the superior maxilla is said to be included between the inter-orbital space, the face as far laterally as the outer wall of the orbit, and the hard palate including the junction with the pterygoid process. The last-named junction is apt to be re- tained after complete severance at the other parts— and forcible depression of the partially detached mass is necessary before the final division can be effected. Abernethy mentions a case in which the bones of the face were torn away from the skull, and left hang- ing merely by the optic nerves. THE STKUCTUEE OF THE SKULL CONSIDERED WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO THE EFFECTS OF INJURY. The effects of injury ujjon the skull are varied by many circumstances, chief among which are the fol- lowing :— (1) The distribution of the spongy and compact tissue. (2) The disposition of the cranial bones and their sutures. (3) The direction from which the blow is received, as well as the position of the head at the time. (1) 71ie Dislrihittion of SjwTKjy and Compact Tissue. —The cranial vault is composed for the most part of spongy tissue overlying a thin compact layer. The spongy tissue is best developed at the occiput and at the sides of the vault. The squamae, the sutural lines, the depressions for the Pacchionian bodies, and the forehead below the frontal eminences, are compara- tively devoid of it. This spongy tissue of the vault has received the name of diploe. It is described as occupying the interspace between two plates, the outer and inner. The last named of these alone is worthy of the name, since the first named is incon- stant in development, and may be absent. When present it is furnished with a number of minute open- ings for the escape of veins. The diploe is composed of a network defining irregular interspaces. These may assume a lamelliform arrangement, but are more frequently without apparent order. The diploic cells