126 THE BONES. ■ 0<>0^<X>0 latiou witli tlic occipital, tlie dorsum sellte is seen to be continuous with the upper surface of the basiLar process, and aids in supporting the pons Varolii. The dorsum sellce is composed of loose spongy tissue, and ends anteriorly by a free border, the outer angles of which are called the posterior clinoid 'j^rocesses.—^The inferior surface is continuous with the anterior, pre- senting in relation to it no well-deiined boundary. Conspicuous upon the surface is a triangular spine— the rostrum—which in articulation with the vomer fits into its uppei groove. On each side is a narrow depression, covered in part by a transverse lamina—tlie vaginal process—derived apparently from the base of the pterygoid process to articulate with the alte of the vomer.—^\\q anterior {nasal) surface presents a continu- ation of the rostrum which here articulates with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone. On each side of this median projection lies a sj'^henoidal turhinated lone. Each sphenoidal turbinated bone is defective in its upper part. It is of a triangular figure, its apex pointing downward and backward. It is a distinct bone in the infant, but soon unites with the ethmoid bone in front and the sphenoid behind. With its fel- low of the opposite side it largely contributes to the formation of the sphenoidal sinus. Inferiorly the parts on each side of the rostrum are in part concealed by the apices of the sphenoidal-turbinates.—The/josto-ior surface is of a quadrangular figure, which in the young subject is covered with cartilage. It articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone. At the sides a minute process is seen which aids in forming the groove for the superior petrosal sinus.—The lateral sur- faces the body are almost entirely within the brain- case, a small portion only extending forward to termi- nate at the corresponding surfaces of the sphenoidal tur- binates. Each surface presents a conspicuous depres- sion for the internal carotid artery {sigmoid groove). It is better defined posteriorly than anteriorly, and along its lateral than median border. Two minute processes are detected along the course of the groove; the first and larger at the lateral border of the beginning of the groove called the sphenoidal tongue, and the second at the median border of the anterior end, called the middle clinoid 'process.—The body of the bone thus de- fined is hollow in the adult to form the sphenoidal sinus. This sinus is so often divided by a vertical septum into two that the term sphenoidal sinuses would be more appropriate. Clinical writers, however, inva- riably speak of it as a single chamber. The sphenoidal sinus communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells, but commonly opens upon the nasal fossce. The greater wing of the sphenoid bone springs from the base and the hinder portion of the lateral sur- face. It consists almost entirely of spongy tissue. It arises by a massive base at the inferior border of the body of the bone, slightly in advance of the begin- ning of the carotid groove and behind the sphenoidal fissure. It is divided conveniently into a horizontal and an ascending portion.—The horizontal pjortion is smaller than the ascending. Its upper surface is marked at its outer half by a thick oblique irregular surface for articulation with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. The posterior border presents a compressed thin edge, which is slightly concave below, and forms when the bone is articulated a sulcus for the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube. The under surface is smooth, and bounded ex- ternally by the zygomatic crest. Posteriorly the under surface terminates in a sharp process, directed down- wards, termed the sprinous process. To it is attached the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw.—The ascending portion passes outward and slightly forward, and upward, to be received anteriorl}'' by the frontal bone through a broad triangular, irregular surface at the outer side of its orbital plate, and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Posteriorly it is received by the squamous portion of the temporal bone. It is concave within to receive the middle lobe of the cerebrum. It is slightly concave without, Avhere it is marked by two muscular impressions, one above the pterygoid ridge for the Temporal muscle, and the other below the ridge for the origin of the outer head of the External Pterygoid muscle. The process is smooth in front to form the orlntal surface, and enters into the outer wall of the orbit. Tlie or- bital surface is of a quadrangular figure. It is notched at its inner surface for the passage of a branch of the ophthalmic artery. It is compact where it bounds the sphenoidal tissues inferiorly ; made up of spongy tissue in the centre, it is again thin and compact Fig. 1. The splienoid bone seen from in front. Fig 2. The sphenoid bone seen obliquely from above. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XVII. Fig. 3. The splienoid bone seen (roni behind.