THE BONES OF THE HEAD. 129 are seen several shallow depressions for the Paccliio- nian bodies. Inferiorly and posteriorly the inner sur- face is grooved for the transverse sinus. The upper^ anterior, and posterior borders are simple in character, and present coarse seri'ations for articulation with adjacent bones. The inferior border is bevelled at its anterior two-thirds for articulation with the squama —the posterior third being coarsely serrated, to articu- late with the mastoid division of the temporal. Development.—The parietal bone arises from a membranous matrix by a single centre of ossification which appears at the seventh or eighth week. Eemarks.—This bone will occasionally exhibit be- tween the parietal eminence and the borders of the bone one or more foramina of large size. They are evidences of defective development of the part, which process would appear to be less active in. the region between the centre of ossification and the borders of the bone than elsewhere. Dr. J. S. Parry^ has asso- ciated the tendency to such a condition with rickets. Prof. Turner^ believes these openings to be enlarged vascular foramina, for although, they are occupied with membrane during life, such membrane was found by him to be perforated by minute vessels. THE FRONTAL BONE. The frontal bone (figs. 1, 2, and 3, Plate XIX.) is a symmetrical bone situated at the anterior part of the cranium between the parietals above, the wings of the sphenoid behind, and the bones of the face below. It is for the most part composed of compact tissue. The bone supports the anterior half of the cerebrum within; it affords attachment to the part of the Tem- poral muscle at its sides, where it enters into the com- position of the temporal fossa. It forms the roofs of the orbits, and receives the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The frontal bone is divided into an ascending and a horizontal portion. The ascettdiny portion is marked anteriorly by the upper margins of the or- ■^its—the supra-orhital arches. At the inner third of each arch is seen the siqjra-orbital 7iotch, for the escape of the frontal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. This is sometimes converted into a foramen. The outer extremity of the arch is continuous with the external ano-ular process; the inner extremity—more produced —forms the internal angular process. Between the ' Amer. Jourii. Med. Sci., Jau. 1872, 43. 2 EdinLurgh Royal Soc. Froc, v. 1877, 444. two internal processes lies a rounded elevation—the nasal eminence, which forms the anterior wall of the frontal sinus. The frontal sinus (fig. 1, Plate XXIII., figs. 1 and 2, Plate XXIV.) is an irregular chamber, lined with mucous membrane, situated between the inner and outer plates, at the junction of the ascending and horizontal portions. It communicates with the nasal chamber by means of the infundibulum of the ethmoid bone. The inferior surface is irregularly serrate for articulation with the ascending process of the superior maxillee, the nasal bones, and the vertical plate of the ethmoid. A conspicuous median process of the frontal bone—the nasal sjji^ie—is firmly wedged be- tween these bones. Extending from the base of the process upward along the median line are seen the remains of the frontal suture. Upon either side of the frontal suture is the circular frontal eminence, and below each eminence the supra-ciliary ridge, which corresponds pretty nearly with the supra-orbital arch of its own side. Laterally the ascending portion is marked by a muscular impression, called the temporal ridge, which limits the anterior third or fourth of the temporal fossa. Between this ridge and the supra- orbital arch is produced the external angular process, a conspicuous mass of spongy tissue articulating with the malar bone and the greater wing of the sphenoid bone. The posterior, or encranial surface, is smooth for the reception of the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. In the middle line is seen a deep narrow sulcus, narrower below than above, for the great longitudinal sinus. Inferiorly in front of the ethmoidal notch the sulcus ends in a minute opening, the so-called foramen csecum. This opening is con- tinuous in childhood with the nasal chambers, and transmits a small vein. In the adult it is closed, and is occupied by fibrous tissue. The horizontal p)ortion is composed of the two orhi- tal pjlates and the ethmoidal notch. The orbital plates are two thin laminse, w4iich, as already said, form the roofs of the orbits without and the floor of the anterior cerebral fossa in the main within. The orbital surface is smooth save at the anterior portion of the median half, where it is marked by a minute process for the tendon of the Superior Oblique muscle. Behind the external anoular process the orbital plate accommo- dates the lachrymal gland. The encranial surface is more uneven than the orbital, and slopes gently toward the ethmoidal notch. Each plate is marked by two or three irregular elevations forming several shallow depressions, which, from the fancied resem- blance they are thought to bear to the impressions 17