130 THE BONES. made by finger-tips upon some yielding substance, have received ttie name of the digital depressions. The ethmoidal notch is designed for the reception of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. Its sides exhibit numerous irregular cell-like depressions, which assist when the bone is in articulation to form the eth- moidal cells. Development.—The frontal bone arises from mem- brane by two centres of development, one on either side of the median line. These centres appear near the orbital arches at the seventh week. The bone is composed of two pieces at birth. The suture be- tween the right and left halves is called the frontal suture., and is in the line of the interparietal or sagit- tal suture. It is commonly obliterated at about the third year. The occasional persistence of this serrate suture is a subject of more than passing interest. Surgeons have been known to confound such a suture with a line of fracture.^^Authorities vary with re- spect to the time of development of the frontal sinus. Albinus described the sinus as existing in the foetus of nine months. Blumenbach^ and Henle believe it to be formed at the end of the second year. Its devel- opment would appear to be variable, and to be re- tarded by some diseases, among which may be men- tioned rickets, scrofula, and hydrocephalus. Development of the bone may be varied by the appearance of accessory centres upon the orbital plates. These frequently remain separate from the rest of the bone, resembling in their independent position the Wormian bones. Joh. Czermak^ has described six cases of such abnormally constituted orbital plates. Eemaeks.—From want of proper union of the halves of the frontal bone hernia cerebri has been known to occur at the frontal suture.—Mr. Shaw ex- hibited before the Pathological Society of London an • Velpeau, Anat. Chirurg., 228. 2 History and Diseases of Bones, etc., Gottingen, 1786; 101. 3 Zeitschr. fiir Wissenschaft. Zool., iii. 27, pi. 2. encephalocele removed from the head of an infant. The mass had projected through an opening in the frontal bone at the root of the nose, between the sutures uniting the frontal, ethmoid, and nasal bones.^ —The frontal bone will yield occasionally small ex- ostoses. These are sometimes of extraordinary com- pactness, and involve the median portion, as well as the orbital plates.—The frontal bone is infrequently fractured where it is most convex, as at the frontal and nasal eminences. It is relatively often fractured at the sides where the bone enters into the composition of the temporal fossae, notwithstanding that in such locality the bone is protected by the Temporal muscle and aponeurosis.—The external angular process of the frontal bone frequently presents tipon its orbital aspect, and thence to the roof of the orbit, a patch of foramina. In the same locality a cribriform exostosis has been occasionally observed. The outer (anterior) wall of the frontal sinus has been removed for the extraction of polypi growing fi'om the mucous membrane lining the sinus.^ In a case mentioned by Jno. Bell,^ the polypous tumors pressed the inner wall of each orbit outward, while the posterior wall was pressed backward. Owing to the continuity of the frontal sinus with the nasal chamber larvas of insects can readily pass from the latter to the former. JSTumerous cases of this condition have been observed, chiefly in tropical countries. The size of the frontal sinus is subject to great va- riation. Usually confined to the frontal eminence or the space continuous thence with the supraorbital arches, it may extend over the entire length of supra- orbital arches. It is apt to increase in size with advancing years. Under the influence of diseased action the frontal sinus may be obliterated, as in syphilis. One half of the sinus is apt to be larger than the other. Eichet candidly mentions an expe- • Trans. Path. Soc. of Lend., 1858, 2. 2 Lancet, 1859, ii. p. 634. 3 Principles of Surgery, iii. p. 134. EXPLANATION Fig. 1. The frontal bone seen from the side. Fig. 2. Tiie frontal bone seen from beneath. A leader should be drawn from the words "with Sup. Maxilla" to the surface directly behind the one for articula- tion with the nasal bones. OF PLATE XIX. Fig. 3. The frontal bone seen from in front. Fig. 4. The ethmoid bone seen from beneath. For " Unciform Process" read " Uncinate Process."