179 THE UPPER EXTREMITY. ■ ^-s-C^C-oo (head) appears at the fifth year and unites with the shaft about puberty. Remarks.—The shaft of the radius may be deflected inward at the pronator impression. The position of the radius can be determined in the undissected subject by the shaft. With careful manipulation the tubercle can be made out in forced pronation, while the styloid process and the lateral surface of the inferior extremity can be readily out- lined. The advantage secured by defining this surface as distinct from the posterior is decided in studying the relation of the parts at the wrist. The lateral surface is easily detected beneath the skin, and the tendons of the polhcal and the carpal extensors can be felt as the thumb and the hand are extended. The posterior surface in the subject cannot be limited medianly, but is bounded by the head of the ulna. The application of these facts in regional anatomy to the study of the lesion of Barton's fracture is so direct as to require no comment.—Surgical writers describe a depression on the lateral side of the ole cranon, which answers to the head of the radius.—J. Kaczande' narrates an instance of congenital absence of the radius. THE CARPUS. The carpus (Plate XXX.) is a system of irregular bones placed between the bones of the forearm and the metacarpus. It is composed of eight bones, enumerated from the radial to the ulnar border, as follows: the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, pisi- form, trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. The figure of the carpus is broader than long, and slightly curved upon itself. It presents a slightly convex dorsal surface, and a concave palmar surface, which is deepened by lateral pressure—the tuberosity of the scaphoid, an oblique process of the trapezium lying at the lateral border, and the hamular process of the unciform at the median. Between these promi- nences the deep annular ligament is stretched. The proximal surface is smaller than the distal, and is convex for articulation with the radius and the triangular ligament. The distal surface is slightly curved downward, and, excepting a small surface of the trapezium between the first and second meta- carpals, which is free, is designed for union with the metacarpus. The bones of the carpus are arranged in two rows named, from the proximal to the distal end, the first " Virebow's Archiv, 1877, 409. and the second row. The first row is composed of the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform bones; the second row, of the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. Of these the pisiform alone presents but a single facet. The pisiform is the least important of the carpal bones, and pertains more properly to the muscles on the ulnar border of the forearm and hand. The line between the two rows is called the inter- carpal line. The bones of the first row are so articulated as to yield an arch extending transversely. This is concc/ve below, opposite the three outer fingers, in such a way as to secure the scaphoid and the cuneiform bones on the sides of a curve of which the semilunar bone is the centre, and which receives the convexity formed by the unciform bone and the os magnum. Toward the radial border the first row presents a convex lateral surface confined to the scaphoid bone, which is received into a concave surface composed of the distal facets of the trapezium and the trapezoid bone. Thus the inter-carpal line is sinuous; it is curved forward for the carpal bones, answering in position to the thumb and index finger, and backward for those answering to the middle, the ring, and the little finger. The bones composing the carpus are free for liga- mentous and muscular attachment on the palmar and dorsal surfaces; they are faceted on the remaining sides, except at their entrance into the radial and ulnar border, where they are also free. Structure.—Each bone is composed of cancelli, with a thin outer compact layer. Development.—Each carpal bone arises from a single centre of ossification.^ The os magnum ossifies at the first year; the unciform at the second; the cuneiform at the third; the trapezium and the semi- lunar bones in the fifth; the scaphoid in the sixth and seventh ; the trapezoid in the seventh or eighth; and the pisiform at the twelfth year. The motions of the carpus as a whole are limited to the radio-carpai joint. The second row is capable of being moved upon the first—as in the act of creep- ing. Here the portions of the hand supporting the weight of the body—viz., the phalanges, the meta- carpus, and the second row of carpal bones—are ex- tended upon the first row, which remains in direct ' For the statement that the carpal bones may arise from more than one centre each, see Rambault and Renault, Origine et Deve- loppement des Os. Paris, 1807.