184 THE BONES. -=00^000 ning of the surface of origin of the Gluteus Medius; the large second concavity is entirely occupied by the same muscle; the small second convexity is much roughened for the origin of the iliac fibres of the Gluteus Maxinuis muscle.—The dorsum is crossed by three faint lines, the superior, the middle, and the in- ferior, curved lines. The superior curved line, is in common with the superior iliac border the greater part of its length, but is distinct in a nearly vertical position on the dorsum at the posterior convexity, where it separates the Gluteus Maximus from the Gluteus Medius muscles. The middle curved line is well marked anteriorly at the first dorsal convexity, and arching back ward ends at the great sciatic notch. It is compostd of the lower ends of the oblique rugosities for the origin of the Gluteus Medius mus- cle. The inferior semicircular line begins at the notch above the anterior inferior spinous process, and arches backward nearly concentric to the upper border of the acetabulum; it answers to the lower border of the Gluteus Medius muscle. Along the posterior border of the iliac portion are seen two processes, the posterior superior spdnons process^ and the posterior inferior spinous process; these are sepa- rated by a faint emargination. (6) The region of the acetabulum.—The acetalulum (cotyloid cavity, socket for the head of the femur) lies below the narrowed portion of the hip bone (isth- mus), and is directed downward, forward, and out- ward. It is formed by the junction of the main divisions of the bone in such a manner that two-fifths of its area is derived from the ischium, less than two- fifths from the ilium, and nearly one-fifth from the pubis. Nearly circular in shape the acetabulum is for the most part occupied by a C-shaped articular surface. The space between the ends of the curve of this figure is depressed, and directed downward and forward to form the basal and, at the lower and the inner lip, the shallowest part of the socket. The articular surface is broadest and deepest on the ilium posteriorly where it forms in connection with the ischiatic portion the great posterior lip; narrowest on the ilium anteriorly where together with the pubic portion it forms the anterior lip. In the last named locality the curve is nearly continuous with the bot- tom of the socket, but on the ischium the curve corresponds to a rather bold elevation that forms in connection with the bottom the cotyloid notch (inci- sura). The articular surface in the unprepared bone is covered with cartilage, while the depression is filled with fat.—A short distance above the acetabu- lum a small transverse ridge is seen for the origin of the tendon of the Kectus Femoris muscle. (c) The lateral surface of the ischio-pmlic p)ortion.— The lateral surface of the body of the ischium below the acetabulum exhibits a wide groove for the Obtu- rator Externus muscle. On a level with this groove on the posterior margin lies the sp)ine of the ischium., for the attachment of the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament and origin of the Superior and the Inferior Gemelli muscles. The ischium ends inferiorly in the tuberosity, which presents a broad flat surface looking outward and backward, and yields surfaces of origin for the Biceps, the Semi-Tendinosus, and the Semi-Membra- nosus muscles. The deep excavation on the posterior margin of the innominate bone between the posterior inferior process of the ilium and the spine of the ischium defines the great sciatic notch, which trans- mits the Pyriformis and the Obturator Internus mus- cles, the sciatic nerves, the gluteal artery and nerves, and the internal pudic vessels and nerves. The space between the spine of the ischium and the tuberosity has received the name of the lesser sciatic notch. The ascending ramus of the ischium, narrows slightly to join the descending ramus of the pubis; an irregular line of nodules usually exists here to denote the line of sutural union. The lower margin of the ascending ramus is broad, continuous with the tuberosity, and affords a line of origin fi^r the Adductor Magnus muscle. The lateral surface answering to the pubis is smooth on the body and on the greater portion of the descending ramus, except at the lower margin and near the symphyseal line, from which the Ad- ductor Longus, the Adductor Brevis, and the Gracilis muscles arise. The massive horizontal ramus of the pubis broadens posteriorly towards the acetabulum, and merges into the anterior border of the innom- inate bone. It is grooved obliquely where it enters into the upper margin of the obturator foramen for the obturator vessels and nerves. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXXL Fif^. L Tlie innominate bone seen from tlie lateral aspect. Fig. 2. Tlie iiiDominate bone seen I'rom the median aspect. For " Linea ileo-pectiiica" road " Liiiea ilio-pectina?a."