.THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. 177 ^OO^OOo from the ulnar origin of the Supinator Brevis. To this succeeds a longitudinal ridge, whose hinder surface is slightly concave for the origin of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris muscle. The outer, lower, and rougher parts of the posterior surface give origin to the extensors of the thumb, and in part to the Supinator Brevis muscle. The median border of the posterior surface is for the most part smooth and convex, being broad and concave at its upper portion for origin of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum. It is subcutaneous at its lower fourth. The lower extremity of the ulna is sub-cylindrical in form, and concave on its anterior surface for the Pro- nator Quadratus muscle. The apparent constriction at this point has received the name of the neck of the ulna. The posterior surface is slightly concave for the tendon of the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris muscle. Its median surface is narrow, rounded, and produced posteriorly below the level of the main articular sur- face, and receives tlie name of the stt/loid jjrocess, and to it is attached the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The tip of the process is covered with cartilage, and forms a constituent part of the joint. The articular surface of the lower extremity of the ulna is termed the head.. It presents a rounded, nearly vertical lateral border, for articulation with the sig- moid cavity of the radius, and is continuous with the distal surface which is in apposition with the triangu- lar cartilage of the wrist-joint, attached to the notch between the articular surface and the styloid process. Structure.—The proximal end of the ulna pi'e- sents a somewhat complex arrangement of laminpe. First in order is a series of nearly vertical lines ex- tending from the great sigmoid fossa to the anterior surface of the shaft. Second, a small group of lines concentric with the curvature of the great sigmoid cavity at its lower half. Third, a series of scattered lines covering the olecranon obliquely from behind for- ward and downward. Fourth, numerous intersecting arching lines in the remainder of the extremity. The distal end is occupied by oblique, scarcely intersecting lines arranged as in the correspondiuc radius. end of the Dkvelopment.—The ulna arises from three centres of ossitication. The nucleus for the shaft appears at about the eighth week ; that for the lower extremity at the fourth or fifth year. The upper extremity, so far as it is articular, is an outgrowth from the shaft. An epiphyseal nucleus appears at the tip of the ole- cranon at the tenth year. This joins the shaft about 23 the seventeenth year. The lower epiphysis unites with the shaft about the twentieth year. The distal epiphysis has been frequently separated by violence, and in some instances has been necrosed and lost. It is interesting to know that a useful arm may result after this singular lesion. The olecranon and the coracoid process very rarely persist as distinct bones. Remarks.—The shaft of the ulna is often obliquely deflected at the oblique line.—The olecranon is some- times broken by a fall on the elbow, the fracture generally taking place at the constriction where the process joins the shaft—thus involving the joint. The coronoid process may be broken off by excessive strain of the Brachialis Anticus muscle. Liston men- tions a case of this kind occurring to a boy eight years of age, in consequence of hanging with one hand from the top of a high wall. Fractures of the olecranon and the coracoid process unite, as a rule, by ligament. When the ulna and the radius are in articulation, it is noticed that the styloid process of the former is somewhat shorter than that of the latter. Both it and the ulnar head can be made out in the undissected subject, lying between the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris and the Extensor Minimi Digiti muscles. A sesamoid bone is rarely found lying in front of the coronoid process. In a case reported by Fischer,^ it attained the size of a pigeon's egg. THE RADIUS. The radius (figs. 1, 2, 3, Plate XXIV.), while slightly shorter than the ulna, is more massive than that bone, and articulates with the radial head of the humerus above, the carpus below, and the ulna at its median (inner) side in such a manner as to secure movements that are much more varied than are those of the ulna. The part the radius contributes to the formation of the elbow-joint is small compared to -that which it contributes to the wrist. The radius consists of a shaft and an upper and a lower extremity. The bone is narrow and irregularly rounded above, broader and somewhat three-sided below. The upper extremity is termed the head. It is disk-shaped, with a depression above, as already mentioned, for articulation with the radial head of the humerus. The depression does not occupy the entire proximal facet, for at its inner side a crescentic con- ' Langonbeck's Archiv fxir Chii-urg., 1871, xii. 863, figs. 9 and 10, tab. 15.