THE BONES. 158 The Skull in Extreme Old Age.—The skull in old age presents manj distinguishing features. The sutures are nearly or entirely lost (see p. 156). The walls of the brain-case are ordinarily thin from atrophy, while the teeth are absent and the alveoli absorbed. The skull is much lighter than in the mature adult, and the weight of the face is materially lessened. As a consequence, the skull is more readily balanced upon the vertebral column, thus making up for the withdrawal of the muscular power so essential to the maintenance of the head in man in his prime. The splieno-orbital septum, the roof of the tympanum, the orbital plate of the frontal bone, the os planum of the ethmoid, may be perforated. Other small pro- cesses, such as those tending to close the orifice of the maxillary sinus, may disappear. The pterygoid pro- cess is straighter than in the adult, and flattened in front. Owing to the absorption of the tooth-pits, it may descend far below the level of the hard palate. The prominence of the hamular process iu consequence can be felt within the mouth during life. The outer pterygoid plate is often widened and extended some distance downward along the plane of the lower fibres of the External Pterygoid muscle. The triangular cartilage of the nose is often ossified; the sinuses are generally enlarged, though these may be even smaller than in the adult; and the jugular process is enlarged and inflated. THE HYOID BONE. The hyoid bone (figs. 1, 2, Plate XXV.), so called from its resemblance to the Greek letter r, lies in the region of the neck between the tongue and the larynx, with its convexity directed forward and its concavity backward. It is superficial, permitting the general outline of the bone to be traced beneath the skin in the undissected subject. The hyoid bone is composed of a body and two pairs of processes.—The hody is somewhat quadrilate- ral in form, and is nearly twice as wide as high. The anterior surface is convex and well marked at the upper half by muscular impressions for the Genio- Hyoid muscles. These impressions look upward, and are sharply separated from the rest of the anterior surface which looks directly forward. The compressed median interval between these impressions is some- times prominent and ridge-like. The posterior sur- face is smooth and deeply concave. The upper border is thin, and continuous with the inner and upper mar- gin of the greater horn. The lower border is thicker than the superior, and is obscurely angulated laterally at the place of origin of the Omo-Hyoid muscles. The lateral border being continuous with the greater horn is seen only in the undeveloped bone. The processes are two in number on each side, and have received the names of the greater and the lesser cornua or horns. The greater Jiorn is a long, irregularly club-shaped process, which is directed upward and backward, and is gradually narrowed posteriorly to end iu a bulb-like tip.—The lesser liorn is a small, peg-shaped nodule, ascending nearly at a right angle from the plane of junction of the body and the greater horn laterally. A joint ordinarily exists between the process and the rest of the bone. The hyoid bone gives attachment by its lower bor- der to the thyro-hyoid membrane; by the tip of the greater horn to the thyro-hyoid ligament; by the tip of the lesser horn to the stylo-liyoid ligament. In addition to the Genio-Hyoid and Omo-Hyoid muscles already mentioned, it gives origin to the Hyo-Glossus, Middle Constrictor, Sterno-Hyoid,Sterno-Thyroid, and Thyro-Hyoid muscles, and insertion for the Mylo- Hyoid, and Stylo-Hyoid muscles. Development.—The hyoid bone arises from five centres of ossification, one for the body and one for each of the horns. The centres for the body and the greater horns appear in the ninth month of foetal life. The centre for each of the lesser horns appears during the first year. The lesser horn remains cartilaginous until advanced life. Kemakks.—The greater horns of the hyoid bone are rarely exactly similar. The left lesser horn is so EXPLANATION OF PLATE XXV. Fig. L The hyoid bone, seen from above. Fig. 2. Tlie liyoifl bone, seen from in front. Fig. 3. The thorax. Fig. 4. The sternum and tlie costal ciirlilages, seen from in front.