THE FIBULA OOO^OOO^ 195 ends at the corresponding border of the external malleolus. The internal lorder is of less significance than the others. It is obscurely developed near the head; but about two inches below this part it assumes a linear appearance and continues hence to the lower third of the bone v/here it crosses the inner surface obliquely to terminate, as a rule, by joining the ridge for the interosseous membrane. This ridge begins near the head of the bone close to the inner side of the articular border, whence it continues downward along the inner surface to be lost above the articular surface of the external malleolus.—^h.G external sur- face is concave at its upper two-thirds for the origin of the Peroneus Longus and the Peroneus Brevis muscles. It is smooth below and covered by the tendons of the same muscles. The posterior surface is flat for the origin of the Sole us muscle, and winds round the inner surface of the bone on its lower third, and is occasionally marked by a small nutri- tious foramen directed downward at about its middle third. The internal surface is divided by the ridge for the interosseous membrane into two narrow spaces, one lying between the ridge and the anterior border, yielding surfaces of origin for the Extensor Proprius Pollicis, the Extensor Communis Digitorum, and the Peroneus Tertius muscles, and the one lying between the ridge and the posterior border, wider and more depressed, designed for the origin of the Tibialis Posticus muscle. The lower extremity answers to the lower twisted portion of the bone. It begins at the point of greatest lateral compression, namely, where the internal border joins the ridge for the interosseous membrane. Beyond, the narrow elliptical portion has received, from some English writers, the name of the neck. The inner side is rough and marked by an elongated triangular surface for the strong fibres of the interosseous mem- brane. The outer surface is convex and subcutaneous. The lower extremity gradually increases in size as it approaches the corresponding extremity of the tibia where its distal end is called the external malleolus. Larger and more prominent than the internal malleolus, and, in articulation, placed a little posterior to it, the external malleolus resembles the lower third of the shaft, with which it is continuous in its wide lateral, and narrow antero-posterior surfaces. It is of a tri- angular shape, its antero-inferior border being some- what angulated. The posterior border is thicker than the anterior, and is faintly grooved for the tendons of the Peroneus Longus and the Peroneus Brevis muscles. The anterior surface is convex and subcutaneous. The median surface presents a triangular articular facet, slightly convex from above downward for articulation with the astragalus, and at its upper portion with the tibia. Below and behind this facet is a roughened depression for the posterior fascicle of the external lateral ligament and the posterior fibres of the capsule. The summit is rounded for attach- ment of the middle fascicle of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. Structure.—In the proximal end the main lines of the cancelli radiate from the articular surface and are intersected by concave transverse lines. Substan- tially the same arrangement obtains at the distal end, where the radiating fibres are notably conspicuous, and where they pertain more to the surface of con- tact with the astragalus than with the tibia. Development.—The fibula arises from three cen- tres of ossification: One for the shaft which appears at the sixth week; one for the lower extremity which appears at the second year; and one for the upper ex- tremity which appears at about the fourth year. The second named unites with the shaft at about the twen- tieth year, and the last at about the twenty-fifth. Eemaeks.—The fibula and tibia when seen in articu- lation present some striking features of contrast. Thus the shaft of the tibia is turned slightly forward, while that of the fibula is turned backward and outward. The shaft of the tibia is prismoidal with the base di- rected backward; the shaft of the fibula is prismoidal with the base directed outward. The tibia extends proximally one inch beyond the fibula; the fibula ex- tends distally one inch beyond the tibia. The lower third of the tibia is slightly compressed from before backward ; the lower third of the fibula is greatly compressed laterally. The most superficial parts of the fibula are the head and the lower third of the shaft including the malleo- lus.—The head of the fibula lies on a level with the tubercle for the 'Quadriceps Extensor tendon. This becomes a valuable point for reference in conditions where the head is concealed by swelling of the sur- rounding soft parts. The lower third of the shaft together with the malleolus can always be defined beneath the skin, and owing to its peculiarly exposed position is liable to fracture. The place of insertion of the Biceps muscle some- times forms a conspicuous rounded projection at the base of the styloid process. The probable communication between the articular surface of the proximal end of the fibula and the kn-ee- joint, as well as the proximity of important vessels