178 THE BONES. vexity is seen which articulates with a groove be- tween the radial head and the trochlea. The head presents vertical borders, which are more pronounced within than without, for articulation with the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and the orbicular liga- ment. Below the head is a circular constriction— the neck. Directly beneath the neck at its anterior surface is the large rounded prominence—the tube- rosity—the front aspect of which is smooth for the accommodation of a bursa, while the back part is roughened for the insertion of the tendon of the Biceps muscle. ThesAa/i(of the radius seen from the outer side at the position of the tuberosity is flattened and covered by the Supinator Brevis muscle. Extending from the position of the tuberosity down- ward and outward as far as the outer surface of the shaft at about its middle is the oblique line. A little below the end of this line lies the roughened impres- sion for the insertion of the Pronator Radii Teres. Thence to the distal end the shaft is somewhat three- sided. The median edge or border is sharp and com- pressed for the attachment of the interosseous liga- ment. The lateral surface or border is broad and convex, and covei'ed by the tendon of the Supinator Longus muscle. Tlie anterior surface is nearly smooth, and marked for the upper two-thirds by the origin of the Flexor Longus Pollicis muscle, and below (near the wrist) for the insertion of the Pronator Quadratus muscle. A short distance below the oblique line at the upper third of the shaft is the 7iutrient canal, the orifice of which is directed upward. The posterior surface is nearly plane, and covered with the Extensor Communis Digitorum. The lower extremity is larger than the upper. It is somewhat irregularly quadrangular, and marked by the anterior, the lateral, the posterior surfaces (which represent corresponding surfaces of the shaft), and the median (inner) surface which is continuous with the median edge of the shaft.—-The anterior surface is slightly concave, with sharply defined borders. Its median (ulnar) half projects a little forward, and answers to the semilunar bone; while the lateral (outer) half is deflected downward and outward to form the anterior surface of the styloid process, serves for the attachment of the capsular ligament of the wrist-joint, and answers to the scaphoid bone.—The lateral (outer) surface is broad, and defined in front by the sharp edge separating it from the anterior surface—and behind by a ridge, which is confined for the most part to the shaft, and terminates abruptly a short distance from tlue articular surface, and which separates the tendons of the extensors of the fingers from the tendons of the extensors of the carpus. The lateral surface is further distinguished by a central ridge confined for the most part to the epiphysis. It passes along the entire length of the styloid process, and separates the groove for the extensor of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and of the first joint of the thumb, from the extensors of the carpus.—The posterior surface is generally described as included within the former. It is limited to that portion of the bone lying between the median and the lateral surfaces. It is nearly smooth, and occupied by the tendons of the extensors of the fingers, and marked at its outer border by a special groove (sometimes absent) for the Extensor Indicis muscle.'—The TOec?^(79^ (inner) surface is of a triangular shape, narrow above where it is continuous with the inner edge of the shaft, broader below where it joins the carpal surface at a right angle—and presents a facet called the sigmoid cavity, which is concave to articulate with the head of the ulna. The distal or carpal articular sxirface is concave, and triangular in form, its base being directed to the median side. Its antero-posterior diameter is marked by a faint ridge which separates the lateral triangular facet for articulation with the scaphoid bone from the median more quadrangular facet for articulation with the semilunar bone. Structure.—The direction of the laminae is sucii that the lines pass downward somewhat convergingly from the proximal articular surface to the inner side of the neck. These are intersected so as to form nar- row arch-like figures by lines starting from the sides of the bone. In the distal extremity the lines are oblique and, as such, pass downward from each side to the epiphyseal end, where they terminate Avith little or no intersection. The lines are more vertical at the outer border. A number of transverse lines are seen in the epiphysis.—In aged subjects the distal epiphy- seal end becomes much weakened by reason of the partial atrophy of the cancelli. As a result fracture has not infrequently resulted in comminution of the distal end and inevitable shortening of the shaft of the bone. Development.—The centre for the shaft of the radius appears between the fifth and the eighth week. The centre for the lower extremity appears at the second year, and unites with the shaft at the twentieth year. The centre for the upper extremity ' A portion of the lateral surface is seen in connection with the posterior when the bone is viewed from behind.