THE BOXES OF THE HEAD. 137 OOO^OO^:- INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE. The inferior turbinated bone is an elongated scroll of bone appended by its outer border to the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and to the lower crest of the palatal bone. It consists of a body and three pro- cesses, the maxillary, the lachrymal, and the ethmoidal. Its inner border, at its anterior edge, is fixed to the inferior crest of the nasal process of the superior maxilla. The bone is curved from within outward, presenting a convexity toward the nasal chamber, grooved for vessels and nerves. The entire bone is of papery consistency, and is marked by minute de- pressions and elevations for the retention of the mu- cous membrane. Tiie maxillary process is a hook-like process of a semicircular shape. Hence the name, sometimes given to it, of the auricular process. It is applied to the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and serves to maintain the bone in position. Tlie lachrymal process passes upward and forward to articulate with the inner por- tion of the lachrymal bone. The ethmoidal process arises on the same plane a little further back, to effect a junction with the uncinate process of the ethmoid bone. The lachrymal and ethmoidal processes aid in defining the nasal wall of the maxillary sinus. Articulation.—-The inferior turbinated bone ar- ticulates with the superior maxilla, the palatal, the ethmoid, and the lachrymal bones. Structure.—Dr. H. J. Bigelow^ describes in the inferior turbinated bone a special arrangement of the cancelli, which he believes allies it with the erectile cavernous tissue as seen in the penis. The cancelli of the bone freely intercommunicate by irregular aper- tures, are lined with connective tissue, and are sub- divided by bands of the same material. During life, blood is supposed to occupy these spaces, and to assist in maintaining the cushiony appearance of the mu- cous membrane over the turbinated bones, as well as to aid in closing the nasal chambers during attacks of congestion of the mucous surfaces. A similar ap- pearance is seen in the middle turbinated bone. Development.—It arises from a single centre about the lifth month. at Remarks.—The inferior turbinated bone, receiving its sup})ly through the vessels supplying the mucous membrane covering it, is liable to errors of nutrition ■ Boston Medical and Sur -18 ;ical .Journal, 1S75. dependent upon bloodvessel changes. It is thus apt to become hypertrophied from catarrhal infli imma- tions, and is frequently lost by necrosis through the inflammatory infiltrations of syphilis. Among civil- ized races it is almost invariably asymmetrical, the larger bone always lying in the larger nasal chamber. In congenital cleft of the hard palate, the bone de- scends along its obtuse lower border and tends to occupy the cleft. The anterior narrowed extremity is a rudiment of the prolonged " alinasal" of quadru- peds, which, as the name implies, reaches to the snout, and lies directly behind the space to the outer side of the nostril. This ridge in the human skull may reach the anterior border of the anterior nasal aperture, but generally ends at a point a short distance within. malar bone. The malar bone is situated at the side of the face, where it joins the cranium. It forms part of the temporal fossa and the anterior portion of the outer border of the orbit. It is associated with the zygo- matic process of the temporal bone to form the zygo- matic arch. It presents for examination a maxillary, a zygomatic, and a frontal process. The maxillary process is broad and irregular. It articulates with the malar process of the superior maxilla. The frontal process forms the inferior third of the outer edge of the orbit, and articulates with the external lateral process of the frontal bone. A thin plate is' directed inward from the frontal process its entire length, to join the great wing of the sphe- noid bone. It is called the orhital plate, and helps to separate the orbit from the temporal fossa. A small portion of the orbital process ordinarily remains free, and ent-ers into the outer border of the spheno-maxil- lary fissure. The zygomatic process is a broad thick plate passing backward from the side of the bone. Its upper margin is horizontal, and is continuous with the frontal pro- cess to form the fronto-jugal border. Its course is oblique, and continuous with the malar ridge of the superior maxilla, to form the maxillo-jugal border. The zygomatic process articulates witli the corre- sponding process of the temporal bone through a serrate suture. The malar bone presents a suhcutaneous or facial surface. It is smooth, somewhat convex, and fur- nished with several minute foramina for the malar branches of the ophthalmic nerve. A temporal sur- face is formed by the temporal aspects of the zygo- matic and frontal proces.ses, and an orlital surface