230 THE JOINTS AND THE LIGAMENTS -OOO^OOO . where. The ligamentum teres is tense. In flexion combined with abduction the head passes entirely within the socls;et superiorly, but inferiorly is brought oat, and is supported by the lower and the inner part of the capsule, which is now tense, while the liga- mentum teres is relaxed. It follows, from what has been seen of the relative degrees of strength of the parts of the capsule, that the joint is best protected in the position of extension, and^least so in the [position of flexion with abduction. Kotation is defined in two ways,—rotation with extension, and rotation with flexion. The first-named is necessarily limited, since it takes place while the powerful ilio-femoral ligament is tense. In the living subject it is best measured by the arc of movement of the great trochanter. Rotation with flexion is free in all directions save that of flexion with adduction, which is checked by the tension of the ligamentum teres. The extrenie of upward movement is checked by tension of the lower part of the capsule as well as bj^ contact of the lower border of the neck against the upper border of the acetabulum. The extreme of downward movement is checked by the forced con- tact of the head against the most convex portion of the tense ilio-femoral fasciculus. Rupture of the ilio-femoral fasciculus would cause dislocation on extension of the joint, as in the act of standing erect. A wrench of the femur downward and backward while the thigh is raised, and the joint flexed, would cause dislocation, since in this position the weight is thrown against the weak posterior and under part of the capsule. The lial^ility to luxation is increased if the joint is adducted. An exact knowledge of the actions of the ilio- femoral fasciculus in retaining the head of the femur in its false positions during dislocation has been shown by Dr. H. J. Bigelow ^ to be of great importance. This observer has found the external branch of the fasciculus in dorsal dislocation to hold the limb in an inverted position. Should eversion exist with this dislocation, the external branch of the ligament is rup- tured. In anterior oblique dislocation the head of the femur is hooked over the ligament, which is entire. In supra-spinous dislocation the head, as in the pre- ceding example, is hooked over the ligament, but the external branch is ruptured. In pubic dislocation the range of the femur upon the pubes is limited by the ligament, which in the sub-spinous dislocation also binds the neck of the femur to the pelvis. In The Hip. the thyroid dislocation the limb is everted by the agency of the ligament, and the trochanter rests upon the pelvis. In dislocations which are the result of extreme force the ilio femoral fasciculus is ruptured. Congenital dislocation of the hip, by altering the lines of pressure of the trunk upon the inferior ex- tremity, induces pronounced anterior inclination of the pelvis, a condition which acts indirectly as a cause of antero-posterior curvature of the lumbar vertebree. The cervical portion of the capsular ligament is subject to many variations. It has been found by Dr. G. K. Smith' that the ligament may be attached to the neck nearer the head in some subjects than in others. The hip-joint receives Nerves on the posterior sur- face from the ischiatic nerve as it supplies the Gemel- lii and the Quadratus Femoris muscles, and on the anterior surface from a branch of the obturator nerve. The Arteries giving branches to the hip-joint are the internal circumflex, the gluteal, the obturator, and the sciatic. The Knee-Joint. The knee (figs. 2, 3, 4, Plate XLI.) is the largest and most complicated joint in the body. It is composed of the femoral condyles, the tibial condyloid surfaces, and the patella, together with a pair of inter-articular disks, the whole being bound together with appropri- ate ligaments. The joint thus presents for examination— The Capsular Ligament. The External Lateral Ligament. The Internal Lateral Ligament. Tlie Inter-Articular Cartilages. The Transverse Ligament. The Crucial Ligaments. The Synovial Membrane. The Capsular Ligament is united to the margin of the glenoid cavities of the tibia below, and the tuber- osities and lower portion of the popliteal surface of the femur above. It is in addition attached to the margin of the patella and to the patellar ligament in front, as well as to the outer broad surfaces of the semi- lunar cartilages at the sides. It is of unequal strength and thickness, being strong behind, but weak in the neighborhood of the patella. It is incorporated be- hind with the tendon of the Semimembranosus mus- cle, at the side with the lateral ligaments, at the front ' The Insertion of the Capsular Ligament of the Hip-Joint and its Relation to Intra-Capsular Fracture. Pamphlet. New York, 1862.