THE BONES. 17G remarkably inflated. Exostosis of the greater tube- rosity bas been successfully removed by operation.^ The head of the bone has been known to be absorbed, as recorded in a case by Bull.^ THE ULNA. The ulna (fig. 4, Plate XXIX.) is the longer of the two bones of the forearm. It articulates proxi- mally with the trochlea of the humerus, distally with the carpus, and at the lateral side with the radius. It lies to the median side, and to some extent behind the radius. A line drawn downward through the radial head of the humerus would touch the lower end of the ulna. The ulna is divided into a shaft, an upper and a lower extremity. The upper extremity is of an irregular quadrilateral figure, deeply notched above to form the greater sig- moid cavity. The posterior limit of the notch forms the olecranon, and the anterior the coronoid process. The olecranon is continuous with the shaft poste- riorlv. It forms a massive process, curved slightly forward, and is wider in front than behind. Its pos- terior surface is rounded for the insertion of the ten- don of the Triceps muscle, while the summit is for the most part smooth for the accommodation of a large synovial bursa. A narrow groove between the site of the bursa and the free edge designates the line of attachment of the posterior and the lateral por- tions of the capsular ligament. Beneath the insertion of the tendon of the Triceps muscle is a free triangu- lar surface, with the apex directed distally ; the sides are defined by the approximation of the Anconeus and the Extensor Carpi Ulnaris muscles; it consti- tutes the portion of the bone felt beneath the skin in the undissected subject. The coronoid process is continuous with the front of the ulna. It is a wide, compressed projection, having a broad base, and well-defined sides. Its anterior sur- face is flat or slightly concave, to receive, by a rough impression toward the median side, the tendon of the Brachialis Anticus muscle. At the base of the coro- noid process is a slight elevation termed the tuLercIe for attachment of the oblique ligament. The line of junction at the median side between the coronoid process and the olecranon is depressed to give origin in part to the Flexor Carpi Ulnaris muscle, and to a slip of the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. The lateral ' Lancet, 1864, 210. 2 Med. Times and Gaz., 1868, 498. side of the coronoid process is depressed, and marked at the upper half by an elliptical concave articular surface—the lesser sigmoid cavity—for articulation with the head of the radius. The bone on either side of this facet is often roughened for the attachment of the orbicular ligament. Below the lesser sigmoid cavity the lateral surface is abruptly concave for the origin of a slip of the Supinator Brevis muscle. The greater sigmoid cavity in articulating with the trochlea of the humerus presents for exami- nation two surfaces, one pertaining to the olecranon and the other to the coronoid process. These sur- faces are separated by a transverse groove, which, beginning conspicuously at the middle of the median border, ends faintly at the corresponding point on the lateral border. At a right angle to this notch is a smooth vertical ridge which extends from the centre of the upper margin of the olecranon above to terminate at the anterior free margin of the coronoid process below, and which serves to divide the sigmoid notch into two unequal areas ; of these areas the inner is the larger and more concave. The shaft of the ulna is three-sided, and presents accordingly three surfaces for examination, an ante- rior, a posterior, and a median (inner). The anterior and posterior surfaces are sharply separated by a thin compressed ridge, which is well defined along the middle third of the lateral border, and which serves for the attachment of the interosseous ligament. The median (inner) surface is joined to the anterior by a rounded border, having imperfectly defined limits. The posterior surface is continuous with the anterior surface, excepting at its middle third, where it is sepa- rated by the ridge above named. The details of the shaft, as included within the above-named borders and surfaces, are as follows: the anterior surface exhibits a longitudinal depression, for the origin of the Flexor Profundus Digitorum, ex- tending downward and outward from the insertion of the Brachialis Anticus. The oblique line serves to separate the surfaces of origin of the Supinator Brevis from the Flexor Sublimis Digitorum; near this line, and toward the median border of the shaft, is seen the nutritious foramen directed from the upper extremity of the bone. Toward the distal extremity the anterior surface becomes narrower, and is marked bv a line directed downward and inward, for the ori- gin of the Pronator Quadratus. The ^^osfenor surface is limited laterally above by an oUique line or ridge, extending from the posterior border of the lesser sig- moid cavity downward and outward to separate the depression for the insertion of the Anconeus muscle