THE BONES 170 or four faint ridges, wliicli serve as points of attach- ment for the inter-rnuscular septte of the Subscapular muscle. Along the vertebral border itself is a rough line for the insertion of the Serratus Magnus. The lorders (costse) of the scapula are the upper, the vertebral, and the axillary. The U2:)per border is thin, and it extends between the superior angle and the supra-scapular notch, which transmits the supra-scapular nerve and vein. To the vertebral side of the notch is attached the Omo- Hyoid muscle. The vertelral border, (median' inner, internal, poste- rior,) or base, is somewhat thicker than the upper, and is divided by the spine into two portions. Holding the bone in its natural position, so that the dorsal sur- face remains in full view, the portion of the vertebral border above the spine inclines upward and forward ; the portion below the spine inclines downward and forwai'd. The supra-spinous border receives the in- sertions of the Levator Anguli Scapula3 and of the Ehomboideus Minor muscles, besides yielding some fibres of origin of the Supra-Spinatus muscle. The infra-spinous border receives the insertion of the Ehomboideus Major muscle. The axillary border (lateral, external, outer, ante- rior) extends from the glenoid cavity to the inferior angle, and is remarkably thick as compared to the other borders. It is more compressed below than above, where its sides are lost on the neck. Directly beneath the glenoid cavity, with a slight inclination to the ventral surface, is the rough impression {\x\^r^x■^Q- noid tubercle) for the origin of the long head of the Triceps muscle. Extending thence downward along the greater portion of the border is a ridge, which serves to separate the impressions for the Infra-Spina- tus and the Subscapular muscles. The axillary ^border between the termination of the ridge and the angle is occupied by a thin broad spine of varying size, which is continuous with the surface on the dorsum for the Teres Major muscle. The angles of the scapula are the superior, tlie in- ferior, and the glenoid (external). The superior is defined by the junction of the upper and the vertebral borders ; the inferior by the junction of the vertebral and the axillary borders. In examinations of the liv- ing subject, the inferior angle is from its prominence often briefly called the scapular angle. On the dor- sum the last-named part of the bone gives origin to a ' The term "median" is in this instance employed by German writers, since this border is nearer to the median line of the back than the " lateral" (axillary) border is to the median line of the sternum. slip of the Latissimus Dorsi musc^.e. The glenoid angle (external) is represented by the position of the glenoid cavity, and, while essential to the figure of the scapula, is less exact than the other angles. Its description is included in the account of the neck. The nech, unlike the part so named in other bone.s, is the most important division of the scapula when viewed from a mechanical point. It constitutes that massive portion of the bone which is defined on the axillary side by the swollen edge of the glenoid cavity, and on the vertebral by the base of the spine. A line continued from the last-named point downward to the venter would intersect the axillary border at the im- pression of the scapular head of the Triceps muscle, as a line continued from the same point upward would intersect the base of the coracoid process. On the venter itself no lines defining the neck exist. A por- tion of the neck is, therefore, continuous below the spine with the infra-spinous fossa, and above the spine with the supra-spinous fossa. The neck, as above de- fined, is spoken of by some authors as the surgical nech (Fig. 69); the anatomical nech, so called, being restricted to a line passing round the edge of the glenoid cavity. Fig. 69. Scapula showing the line of fracture in the Surgical neck. It will be seen that the coracoid process and the glenoid cavity are included in the median fragment. The glenoid cavity (glenoid head) is the surface by which the scapula articulates with the humerus. It is uniformly concave, and is semicircular at its lower, but acuminate at its upper half. Its ventral surface is slightly notched on the level with the base of the coracoid process. Superiorly, the cavity is continuous by an everted surface with the supra-glenoid tubercle for the origin of the long head of the Biceps muscle. The rim of the cavity is in connection with the glenoid ligament, which serves to deepen the articular surface during life. The coracoid process, so called from its fancied re- semblance to a crow's beak, arises as a stout column