X OPINIONS OP THE PRESS, and we advise all who are interested in such matters, particularly the young and inex- perienced housewife, to obtain it. She will profit greatly by the clear, intelligible recipes it contains. There are many valuable hints, both “ in the scientific branch of cookery, the devising of sauces and dishes, and also in the artistic branch, the art of garnishing,” also as to the training of servants, the making of stock, &c. The directions for cooking are so plain they might be understood by anyone, however ignorant of the art of cookery, and, unlike the old cookery books, which told you what to do, but scarcely ever explained 7(oro to do it, the present work goes into the minutest details of preparation, and she must be a bungler indeed who could not prepare a fairly good dinner from the information gained in the pages of “ Round the Table.” From the Echo, Aug. 13,1872. .... Alternately teaching and advising, with an amusing word or anecdote here and there, we find valuable recipes on almost every branch of cookery; none of the practical difficulties are passed without some explanation. The chapters on vegetables and frying are especially edifying, and, after alluding to almost every part of the science he tries to diffuse, the writer gives a series of bills of fare for every month, which would render the famous Baron Brisse jealous. On the whole, “ Round the Table ” is a decidedly valuable hook, written with good taste and no small ability, and contains in 300 pages all that could be said on a subject which is so much the more interesting that it is all but unknown. From the Bradford Observer, Aug. 15,1872. This book is a serviceable contribution to the literature of the kitchen, presenting the reader with many very valuable suggestions with regard to the art of cookery, all of which • seem to be the result of practical experience The duties of host and hostess, the method of managing servants on special occasions, the way to manage a dinner party, and all the other et-ceteras of custom which polite dinner-giving and dinner-taking society are expected to conform to, are laid down with as much precision as the rules of Hoyle’s games. From the Spectator, Aug. 24, 1872. It treats the subject rationally, does not overwhelm the reader with multitudes of recipes, most of them hopelessly expensive and complicated, but tells him how the table may be economically and elegantly served. The prefatory chapter, entitled “Table Talk,” is full of good sense. From The Field, Aug. 31, 1872. Persons of moderate income who do not keep a professed cook, but who nevertheless desire to live on dainty meats, and are tired of the sameness of the roast and boiled, alternating only with chops and steaks, will find this book a perfect treasure of practical suggestions. From the Observer, Sept. 22,1872. A little vol. of 300 pages does not profess to be exhaustive. Nor is “ Round the Table” a cookery book in the ordinary sense of the word; it is rather a book for the unstress of the household to read and ponder. Apart from the recipes, many of which are new and original—all of which are so carefully explained, that nothing but deliberate perversity can make the cook go wrong, and each one of which has been used in “ The G. C.’s own kitchen—the value of the work is in its "wrinkles.” .... And there are also a hundred little bits of advice of which the British cook is in sore need, and which, trivial as they may appear, are yet very valuable. From the Morning Advertiser, Nov. 2,1872. We have found in “ Round the Table” much which is commendable. .... "The G. C.’s ” gastronomical notions are based on the soundest principles. From the Gardener’s Chronicle, Nov. 9,1872. “ Round the Table ” consists of a series of chatty, sensible articles, which may emphatically be recommended to every housekeeper as deserving her serious attention. From the Nottingham and Midland Counties Daily Express, Nov. 14,1872. .... The most useful, cleverly and cheerily written, and withal the most econo- mical, household director. From tho Daily Neivs, Dec. 25, lSf2. A very practicable handbook of the ark and one deserving every commendation. To youiig housewives with exacting husbands and young cooks we cannot do better than recommend this painstaking little manual; while even devotees accomplished in tnc culinary art will be able to gather many useful hints from these clear, concise,’and wen- written pages.