OPINIONS OF THE PRESS From the Bath Chronicle, June 27,1872. “ Hound the Table ” is a cookery book which will be of great service to the mistress or housekeeper, and to her cook, and which it is not unpleasant or unprofitable to read, as one reads ordinary books. From the Mark Lame Express, July 1, 1872. This is something more than a mere cookery book, the opening chapter, "Table Talk,” being especially good, as abounding in ethics, on serving a dinner, and sorting your company. 1 From the Birmingham Daily Gazette, July 2, 1872. The recipes are plain, and easily comprehended. No better book could be placed in the hands of a young lady on her start in life as mistress of a household. From the Edinburgh Coura/nt, July 8,1872. It is simply one of the most practical and useful cookery books we have seen. From the Essex Standard, July 12,1872. Many of the remarks strike us as original, and yet at the same time abounding in good sense and observation; the recipes are thoroughly clear, practical, and not obscured by the technical terms with which authors of cookery books are too mdch accustomed to interlard their directions. From the Nottingham Guardian, July 19, 1872. The book can hardly be called a mere collection of recipes, as it contains so many hints on the general management and arrangement of a dinner; and is consequently a great improvement on the ordinary cookery book. Anyone who would not be satisfied with a dinner chosen according to the bills of fare inserted at the end of the book, and cooked and served up according to the directions given in the earlier part, must indeed be hard to please. From Vanity Fair, July 20, 1872. Nothing can be more simply described than the recipes in the book before us, nor more easy to be carried out. They have also another groat merit, which is that they are not in the least extravagant, which is the fault of so many of the fashionable cookery books. The chapter on the various ways of treating eggs is excellent; also that on salads and vegetables. From the Lancet, July 20,1872. “ The G. C.” makes a tour of the dining table, and dwells artistically on all the methods by which food is made pleasing to the senses, and conducive to social entertainment. . . . . “ The G. 0.” presents us with one of the best treatises on the art of dining that we have met with “ The G. 0.” supplies a full, intelligible, and vivacious exposition of the various steps in cookery; of how to mako broths, lor instance, for the healthy and for the invalid; of the mysteries of boiling, frying, and roasting j of the proper treatment of vegetables From the Graphic, July 27, 1872. • .. • ■ A collection of maxims and instructions for preparing good food and properly serving it, and is chiefly to be commended, because the dishes spoken of aro such as people, with ordinary means, are likely to present to their guests; whereas cookery books generally are too apt to assume that everybody has £10,000 a year and a French cook. From the Knife and Fork, July 27, 1872. Th® book will be a valuable one to housekeepers of modest means who havo epicurean proclivities. It is written in an easy, pleasant style, that is amusing as well as instructive.