CJ am 22101726780mmm Med K9486TO PRESERVED MEATS, FRUITS, VEGETABLES, &c. BY THE AUTHOR OF “CHOICE DISHES AT SMALL COST.” LONDON: CROSSE & BLACKWELL, SOHO SQUARE.WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. we^vlOmeG Call No.PREFACE. —♦— The present work has no pretensions to be a cookery book; but though no directions will be found in it for baking, boiling, roasting, etc., still it is confidently hoped that it will supply a want long felt both by housekeepers and cooks. The enormous increase of late years in the number and variety of Preserved Meats, Fruits, Vegetables, and Condi- ments has for some time past rendered a guide to them, explaining their properties and uses, almost an essential to every housekeeper who wishes to combine economy with comfort. In thanking the public and the press for the kind way in which they have received my book entitled “ Choice Dishes at Small Cost,” I would add that, to a certain extent, the present work may be considered a sequel to it. While engaged in writing the former book I repeatedly felt the impossibility of keeping pace with the numerous useful additions that were constantly being brought before the public in the shape of preserved provisions of all kinds, and I was often confronted with difficulties that could not be overcome without special help. Thanks to the assistance and co-operation of Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, I have been enabled to overcome these difficulties. The whole of their establishment has been open to me, and I have been enabled to taste and experiment at will. Indeed I have learnt so much myself in writing the present book, that I bring it with the greater confidence before the public. I have endeavoured throughout to adapt the suggestions to the requirements of small households as well as large, and I would beg of housekeepers to read carefully the general principles that apply to all preserved goods before going into details. Though this is not a cookery book, the subject treated of in its pages is one of the most important in connection with the art of cooker}-, namely, the preservation of food — a subject of such vast national importance, especially to the inhabitants of these isles, that I trust it may prove not merely a guide to housekeepers only, but in some slight degree a benefit to the whole British public. THE AUTHOR OE “CHOICE DISHES AT SMALL COST.’INTRODUCTION. THE subject of tbe preservation of food is one of great national importance, as by it an increase is made in the food-supply of the whole world. There are countries where corn is so cheap that it is used as fuel instead of coal on the ground of economy, and there are countries where fruit is so plentiful that a boat's load that would cost a small fortune in Covent Garden is freely exchanged for a moderate amount of wheaten bread. It is but lately that sheep were slaughtered by the thousand for their wool and tallow only, and the carcases thrown aside as offal, while at the same time the eyes of tens of thousands of European children would, like those of Oliver Twist, glisten even at the very sight of meat. The history of how one country can with profit to itself exchange its superfluities for the superfluities of another country is almost the history of civilisation itself. Vast changes have taken place in the domestic life of the inhabitants of these islands during the last century. Indeed, it may be said, in reference to what may be called the pleasures of the table, that in many cases the luxuries of the eighteenth century have become the necessaries of life in the nineteenth. Great changes also have taken place in English society of late years. Men in the present day work less with their muscles, but far harder with their brains. The farmhouse pie cut into two-pound slices is not adapted to the appetite of the weary merchant’s clerk any more than to that of the merchant himself. A certain variety of food is demanded, and with demand naturally supply follows. To the hard-worked man who lives by the sweat of his brain rather than his brow, a Yorkshire breakfast of the old style is simply an impossibility. It is to this enormous middle class that preserved meats, fruit, and vegetables are so acceptable. The old-fashioned prejudice against preserved goods is now almost a thing of the past. Throughout the length and breadth of the land a dish of fresh green peas, or ripe, luscious apricots, is now to be obtained at all seasons of the year. The wonder now is how our ancestors did so well without them. But the same thing may be said of railway travelling, telegrams, and gas. The chief point in which the present work differs from the majority of those which have preceded it, is that its directions are not so much as to how to make things as how to use them. In ordinary works on cookery, for instance, we have various headings of different kinds of jam, and we are told how to make the jam. How few, however, direct us as to the various uses to which jam may be put after it is once made. In the present day, probably, to every one who makes his own jam there are a thousand who buy their jam ready made. It is to these that the knowledge of theINTRODUCTION. V numerous Avays of using jam will be most useful. Again, in the case of potted meats, home-made potted meat is comparatively rare; and, when home-made, is too often a makeshift for using up the remains of a piece of boiled beef, or, still more often, the almost bare bone of a ham that has got too rusty to be placed on the table. Between the home- made article and the potted meat made by the Avholesale manufacturer what a contrast exists ! Thanks to capital and machinery, potted meats su ch as potted ham is there made by the ton, and the same extraordinary advantage of capital combined with skilled labour is shoAvn as in the case of the cotton goods we buy in America. The greatest amount of saving—and by Avhich saving the whole food- supply of the world itself is increased—exists chiefly in the fact of many of the goods being made and preserved in the country Avhere the raw material is plentiful. Take one simple instance. There are few modem inventions connected with eating and drinking more valuable than extract of meat, now so univ ersally recommended by medical practitioners of every mode of thinking. This extract of meat is simply the pure juice of the meat itself reduced to a concentrated form. Thanks to this invention, Ave in England reap the benefit almost in full of those fruitful countries Avhere land and grass are so plentiful that beef and mutton can be obtained at three-halfpence per pound. Were extract of meat made in this country, its price would necessarily be prohibitive. The fact of its being manufactured Avhere meat is almost a drug in the market, and then sent over in a preserved state, enables cooks in the present day to almost do Avithout gravy beef in making soup, and to make the soup at a far more reasonable rate than it could possibly be made did not extract of meat exist. Of course one great advantage gained by cooking all lands of provisions on a wholesale scale is that of economy. Every cook knows that it Avould be possible to supply an excellent dinner for fifty persons at five shillings a head, but it Avould be impossible to supply the same dinner to one person for five shillings. In manufacturing soups on a large scale, the wholesale manufacturer has an enormous advantage over a private kitchen. Any good cook will know hoAV valuable is an old ham bone in making stock for soup. In a manufactory like that of Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, thousands and thousands of ham bones are left in the course of a year—not the rusty ham bone of the private house, but the fresh ham bones from Avhich the meat has been cut but a few minutes; and these ham bones are used in addition to other materials in making stock for the various soups. There are certain general principles Avhich govern the method of dealing with all kinds of preserved goods, Avhich may be divided into four classes—meats and soups, fruits, vegetables, and sauces. Before going into this matter in detail, I would give a short explanation as to the method pursued in preserving all lands of goods in tins. Take any tin of preserved meat, fruit, or vegetables, and open it. It is not an uncommon thing to hear the remark, “Ah! there is the air escaping.” The sudden rush of air is indeed heard, but the Avord “ escape ” is most unscientific. The fact is, the rush of air is into the tin and not out of it. The secret of the preservation of all kinds of meat in tins is that the airINTRODUCTION. •71 is first exhausted, and then the tin is hermetically sealed. The mode of -doing this is very simple. We will take the case of any tin containing meat, fruit, or vegetables, as the process in all cases is the same. The tin is first filled, the lid fastened down and hermetically sealed. This tin is now placed in what may be called a huge bath of water that is very nearly boiling. Were the water absolutely boiling, of course the contents of the tin would be heated to a similar point, and the force of the steam would probably burst the tin. Consequently the temperature is kept at somewhat less than that of boiling water. After a certain period the tin is taken out, and a rather heavy weight is placed on the top. A workman then pierces a small hole in the top of the tin. Exactly at the finish of the rush of heated air and steam which ensues, a dab of solder is placed on the hole, and the contents of the tin are now good to last for any number of years. In fact, what previously contained air is now a vacuum, as the steam condenses on cooling. On opening any tin of pre- served food the sound of the rush of air into the vacuum is amply sufficient proof that the contents of the tin are in perfectly sound order and condition. Although, throughout, the manufacture of the different articles I have described has of course been on the wholesale scale, yet I have endeavoured in every case in giving receipts for the use of these articles to adapt the receipts to the requirements of small private establishments. In each case I have attempted to explain the various uses of the goods, and I have every reason to believe that the present book will be as useful to the retail dealers as to the buyers of the goods themselves. Of late years there has been a large increase in the different kinds of preserved meats, fruits, pickles, vegetables, sauces, etc., and I have myself, on various occasions, asked the grocers in whose windows the goods have been displayed the uses of such and such an article, and have failed to obtain any satisfactory reply. Indeed, it was this which to a great extent originally caused me to think of the want of the present work. In the following pages will be found a description of almost every article supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and in it the grocer will find not only a guide to the housekeeper but to himself, and I have no hesitation in saying that a reference to these different descriptions will be the means of his selling a far greater amount of these tinned goods than he now does. I know by experience how many house- keepers there are who are simply afraid to spend their money in what they fear may turn out useless, solely on the ground of not knowing how to go to work in using it. Again, many goods are displayed in shop windows for sale without in themselves conveying any idea of their nature to the purchaser. I have also observed, with regard to the ordinary directions given in the majority of cases on labels of bottles, that they too often fail to explain their properties; and there are many instances in which, were the nature of the contents described, it would be extremely useful. For instance—is it hot, or sweet, or acid ? Take again that very large class of condiments which may be generally entitled “ pickles.” There are few persons, I imagine, who are aware how very useful pickles are in making various kinds of appetising sauces. There is a general impressionINTRODUCTION. vii , amongst Englishmen that pickles are to be eaten only with cold meat, and very few have any idea beyond this point. Throughout the present work directions are given for using pickles, not only in the ordinary way—that is, as an adjunct to cold meat—but also for making sauces that can be made hot and served up with hot meat. Such dishes as hashed beef with pickled walnut are now of daily occurrence, as well as many others. Another purpose to which many of these pickles can be turned to account is that of ornamenting. How very few “ good plain cooks” know the value of a redchili or the pickled red capsicum simply for ornamental purposes. Again, with our pickle bottle, the probability is that what is left will be the small pickled gherkins, or cucumbers. In describing the way to make mayonnaise salad I have shown how useful are these remains when sliced up and used, as the cookery books would say, “ as hereinafter directed.” I must here refer the reader to the contents of the book itself. In using preserved goods of all kinds, there are certain general principles to be observed with regard to all. I will commence with tinned and potted meats. These should be rightly divided into two distinct classes. There is the tinned meat itself, whole, such as Australian beef or mutton, and tinned meat which is made in the form rather of forcemeat, such as potted ham, potted tongue, etc. With regard to the first, the present work has little to say. Some years ago tinned meat in built was largely introduced into this country, and much criticised. There can, however, be no doubt about its not being able to compete with fresh meat. The chief point to be taken into consideration with regard to the preservation of tinned meat is the fact that it should be kept cool, or at any rate be made cold before it is opened. In the case of an ordinary piece of meat, such as boiled beef, the meat is surrounded by a bright, colourless jelly, which contains almost as much nourishment as the meat itself. Should it be opened in a hot country this jelly would, of course, be a fluid, and the food would look moist and dis- agreeable. Should the meat, however, be required hot, it would be far best to heat it in the tin itself before opening it. When hot, the tin can be opened, the meat turned out hot, and the jelly poured round in the shape of gravy. In the case of the vast majority of tinned meats of every description, including rich ones, such as tinned woodcock, tinned snipe, etc., the cook should always bear in mind the importance of letting the tin be perfectly cold before it is opened. In the majority of cases, when opened, the contents of these tins are surrounded by a rich fat, somewhat similar to lard, and when truffles are mixed with the contents this fat is strongly impregnated with the flavour of the truffles. How, if owing to carelessness this tin has been kept in a warm place, when it is opened the contents will not turn out neatly on to the plate as they should do, and will have a most disagreeable appearance. In every case, therefore, in turning out a tinned woodcock, or. woodcock pate, or tinned tongue, etc., let the cook do her utmost to keep the tin perfectly cool. Next, let the contents of the tin be turned out neatly. The appearance of many a tin of preserved meat is entirely ruined owing to impatience, coupled with want of skill in opening theVUl INTRODUCTION. tin. As a rule, these tins of meat hear ample directions as to the best method of opening them, and it is important to read these directions with care before attempting the process. Next, let the dish or plate on to which the meat is to be turned be suited to the size of the tin, and let the cook be prepared with some kind of ornament for-the dish. The outside, of the tinned meat will often present a rough appearance. This is easily rectified by smoothing the outside wittT a knife or spoon. Next, attention should be paid to ornamenting it. For this purpose there is, perhaps, nothing equal to good, bright, fresh green parsley. The parsley should be placed round the pate when it is turned out. This, again, can be further ornamented with cut lemon, or a little row of parsley finely chopped up can be placed on the top ©f' the pate itself round the edge. If the cook possesses any ingenuity it will be . easy to extract, in the case of a tin which contains truflle, a small piece of black truffle, which should be carefully wiped on a cloth and cut into thin slices, so that a little star can be made in the centre of the pate on the top, the centre of the star being a little speck of green parsley; or if by chance a tongue should be in the house, ready cut, a small red centre of tongue may be used. Again, in the case of turning out a tongue, now a popular and standing dish at breakfast-time, how much better does this tongue look when surrounded by a neat paper frill than when placed on the table bare. In the case of potted meats, in the' majority of cases the meat is left in the tin itself. I would, however, suggest that it should always be placed on a small china dish. I have throughout the present work called attention to the importance of using up the remains of all these tinned and potted goods, and I have given many directions as to the best methods of using them up. When the potted meat is turned out on to a small dish, it will keep very good for two or three days, after which I would recommend that it should be used up in the ordinary course of cooking, as directed under the headings of the various potted meats I have described. Another very important branch is that of tinned fish. Probably one of the most popular forms of preserved fish in the present day is tinned lobster and salmon. Full directions will be found as to how to use both tinned salmon and tinned lobster for other purposes than the common mode of eating it cold with oil, vinegar, and pepper. There is one other class, however, to which I would call house- keepers’ attention. I would ask them to refer to preserved sardines, pilchards, and herrings; and to read carefully the directions given how these fish can be served up hot, in the shape of curry, both at breakfast, dinner, and supper. Housekeepers will know how valuable it is to have by them in the house any little something which will make a dish at a few moments’ notice in case of emergency, such as the unexpected arrival of a few guests. The tinned pilchards and sardines are admirably adapted for this purpose. In using the better classes of preserved meats, I have on most occasions called attention to the fact that these tins are admirably adapted for picnics. As, however, picnics invariably take place in hot weather, I have reminded the caterer of the importance of placing the tin in a little iced water for about half an hour before it is opened. At a good picnic iceINTRODUCTION. ix is always to be found, but it is not every one who would think of using a little of it for the purpose I have named.. , , We next come to that very important branch of preserved goods— tinned vegetables. Just as the chief point in serving tinned meats is to have them cold, so in serving tinned vegetables it is essential to have them hot: and not only to serve them hot, but to make them hot m the tin itself. It should be remembered that these tinned vegetables are already perfectly cooked, and that all that is necessary is to make theta hot through. In many cases the cook will open the tin just as it is and strain off the liquor, on the ground that it is not very clean, and then put the vegetables into some fresh boiling water, make them hot, and serve. Now, it is most important, in serving all kinds of tinned vegetables, that the vegetables should be made hot before the tin is opened. I "will try to explain why this is the case, and will illustrate what I mean by what will be familiar to every good cook—namely, the boiling of a ham. An imperfectly instructed cook will boil the ham, and probably, under the mistaken impression that nothiDg should be allowed to get cold in the saucepan, will take out the ham as soon as it is boiled, place it on a dish, and put it in the larder to get cold. All cooks know the result. The following morning the ham will be cold, and in the dish will be found a quantity of nice him j elly which has run from the ham, and which to a great extent is the goodness of the ham itself. A good cook will, however, allow the ham to get perfectly cold in the water in which it has been boiled, and consequently the whole of the jelly that is in the ham will congeal in the ham itself, and the ham will be what lovers of good living call “juicy.” Now, when the vegetables were originally placed in the tin, and there cooked, of course a good deal of the flavour of the vegetables must have got into the water in which they were boiled. If you opened the tin of vegetables and drained off the liquor, and then placed the vegetables in fresh water, there would be less flavour of the vegetables than were they warmed up in the liquor in which they were originally cooked. To a certain extent the liquor in the tin contains the juice of the vegetable, if the expression may be allowed, just as in the case of a tin of oysters there is probably more oyster flavour in the liquor than in the oysters; consequently when the vegetables are warmed up in the tin itself, far less flavour is lost than when they are opened previously and strained. As soon as the tin has been immersed in water sufficiently long to make the vegetables thoroughly hot through (and with regard to the time full directions will be given under each separate heading), the tin can be opened, the vegetables turned out in their moist state, strained off, and served at once. In the case of tins of asparagus or green peas, cooks would do well to taste the liquor that remains in the tin, and see how strongly this is impregnated with vegetable flavour. The next class of preserved provisions we have to consider is that of fruits. Here again the best course, as in the case of tinned meats, is to keep, the tins in a cool place, and the fruit generally should be served just as it is. Another very important point to be borne in mind by housekeepers is the great advantage to be derived from these tinned fruits in the way ofx INTRODUCTION. making an extra dish for dinner at short notice. I refer chiefly to' tinned peaches and apricots. These, when turned out on to a glass dish will of course at any moment make a very excellent sweet. With a very little ingenuity, however, a very superior-looking dish can be obtained I allude to the system of piling up the fruit into pyramid shape, and then ornamenting it -with preserved cherries and cut green angelica For a full description of this see the heading *• Apricots, tinned/’ etc! These preserved fruits can also be turned to various other uses, such as- making ices. Another important heading in the following work is that of Jellies. Most housekeepers are probably aware how useful a bottle of jelly is to have in the house in an emergency. Probably not all housekeepers are aware that one bottle of jelly can be utilised tc make two, or even more, moulds of jelly, with a little ingenuity and a little extra flavour. The ordinary orange or lemon jelly supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell forms an admirable base for various jellies. For instance, a bottle of lemon jelly may be poured into two separate basius. One can now be coloured a bright red with the assistance of a little cochineal or vegetable colouring matter. Full directions will be found in this book for using the various colouring matters supplied. The flavour of the jelly can now be altered by the addition of a little of one of the various essences, such as vanilla or essence of almonds. The one bottle can now be poured into two separate moulds, and two separate jellies can be sent to table, essentially different both in colour and flavour. One most useful class of provisions that should not be forgotten, in the present book is that of Soups. The different kinds of soup that can now be bought in tins are very numerous, and in the whole- sale manufacture of these soups an important point has always been observed—namely, to make the soup to suit all tastes, and to avoid any one flavour predominating. This is as it should be when catering for the general public, whose tastes are unknown. In the present work, however, will be found full directions how to alter the flavour of tinned soups, and make them richer, or hotter, or thicker, according to the known tastes of those who take them. For instance, we will take the case of a tin of mock turtle soup. The original soup consists of the Dlain mock turtle as obtained from the calf’s head. I have described how, by means of brown roux, a spoonful or more of extract of meat, and a little additional wine, this soup can be varied both in flavour and appearance. Under the heading of Savoury Herbs will also be found directions how to increase the flavour of soups without risking the spoiling of the whole. Housekeepers will also find how wonderfully useful these soups are in making a nice little dish at a few minutes’' notice. A tin of soup can be warmed up at any hour over the gas lamp, or over a spirit lamp, and in many cases where a person from any cause has to return home late, especially in cold weather, by means of one of these tins o& soup a hot supper is always obtainable, without any trouble to servants whatever. The last class to which I shall call attention is that very large one of Sauces. Here, again, one great difficulty which is often to be met with is the variety of sauces from which to choose. There are three or four-INTRODUCTION. -d ■which may be called stock sauces. But many housekeepers ■would probably try an occasional bottle of sauce if they had some idea of its nature previous to buying it apart from the almost universal direction that it is useful for chops,' steaks, cold meats, gravy, hashes, etc. In the ensuing pages will be found a description of every sauce that is now supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. Of course there are com- ments on their uses, and, I may also say, their abuses. Too often the sauce fs in itself admirable, but the dish may by using the sauce be spoiled. It is the cook who is to blame, not the sauce. There is, unfortunately, a very strong feeling, especially among inexperienced women cooks, that it is impossible to have too much of a good thing. There are many cases in our daily life where this idea causes infinite mischief. Our medical men know the extreme danger of ordering medicine or stimulants where an excess of quantity would be dangerous. We often find cases in which a teaspoonful is directed to be given every three or four hours. The first spoonful does the child good. The mother instantly, without waiting or obeying the directions of the doctor, gives the child another spoonful, and possibly another, and the result is disastrous. So, too, with the cook. I will take a simple case. I have given directions for making oyster soup from tinned oysters, and I have called especial attention to the fact of how wonderfully a spoonful or more of anchovy sauce will improve the flavour of the soup, and have directed the cook to taste the soup before the anchovy sauce is added, and afterwards, and have explained how it is that this addition of a small quantity of sauce conveys the idea that a much, larger number of oysters had been used than would have been antici- pated from the original tasting of the soup. Alas ! however, for human weakness, I fear that in too many instances I may have spoiled many a tureenful of soup. I can imagine well the soup, the cook with a spoon in one hand and a bottle of apehovy sauce in the other. She adds, say, the desired quantity, and stirs it up and tastes. Her impression is this : “ Oh, this is an improvement! ” But what follows ? Again the spoon is filled. “We must have some more of this! ” is the impression that instantly flashes across her mind. She proceeds, and what is the result ? She sends up to table in a very short time soup in which no vestige of the flavour of oysters remains, and the unhappy guests have to eat, as best they may, what may be called very weak, thin, anchovy sauce. Another point with regard to sauces which I would impress on the minds of all cooks is the extreme danger of using them to flavour soups; indeed I do not know any one soup whatever which requires the addition of sauce. Of course, in making rich brown gravies, which are stronger than soups, the case is different. But here again the tendency is to jeopardise the sauce by adding too much rather than too little. So, too, in using Worcestershire sauce, for almost any purpose. Worcester- shire sauce, of all, possesses perhaps the most pungent and marked flavour, and, when used in moderation, few sauces are more valuable. But how many dishes have been absolutely ruined by the injudicious use of this popular condiment! I have repeatedly throughout the present work given receipts, and have endeavoured, as a rule, to place as high a model as possible forINTRODUCTION. Xll the guidance of the cook. I believe that if success in cooking is to be attained, it is impossible to have too high a standard of excellence. I have throughout adopted the method usually pursued at that well-known place, the Freemasons’ Tavern, which is gene- rally admitted to be one of the leading establishments, not only in London, but in Europe. On several occasions when I have been in doubt I have consulted M. Burlet, and I beg here to thank him for his kind assistance. I would, however, remind housekeepers that when they have a high model of excellence placed before them, it does not necessarily follow that they are obliged to carry out the receipt in its entirety. It is obviously far easier to take away than to add. For instance, in many of the directions I have given truffles. Now, although truffles are a very great improvement to most dishes, they are by no means essential. If we were to order a vol au vent a la financiere or a vol ail vent a la Toulouse at the Freemasons’ Tavern, we should, of course, get truffles with our vol au vent. In the majority of restaurants, however, about London, the truffles would be omitted as a necessary consequence of the price charged for the dish. So again, whenever I have ordered boiling cream, most housekeepers would be fully aware that boiling milk, with a yolk of egg beaten up afterwards in it, is a very common substitute, though not equal to the cream in flavour. In conclusion, I would give a few hints as to the great number of uses to which preserved provisions can be put. Those who live in country houses some few miles away from shops will find all these goods a very great boon. Many of these preserved provisions are what may be called, to a certain extent, luxuries. Truffled woodcock, fresh green peas, French beans, ripe pineapple, etc., are undoubtedly luxuries. Yacht-owners, as far as my experience of yachting goes, do not seem to be sufficiently aware of the great benefit to be obtained from these tinned luxuries, and I would strongly urgp upon them to let the present volume find a place in every steward’s cabin. With a little fore- thought and ingenuity, a steward who understands his business can, by means of the articles here described, serve up a luncheon or a supper three days away from the nearest shore as easily as if he were within walking distance of Leadenhall or Covent Carden Market.THE HOUSEKEEPER’S GUIDE TO THE USE OF flrcsci'bcb bruits, Vegetables, & QTonbhncnis. BSINTHE.—Absinthe is an ex- ; tract made chiefly in Swit- zerland from wormwood. It is a greenish fluid, and when 1 mixed with water it turns it an opal colour. It is largely taken on the Continent as a stimulant. Great care should be ex- ercised in mixing absinthe and water thoroughly, and for this purpose in many foreign restaurants a small tap is kept constantly running, from which water falls drop by drop. A glass containing the quantity of the absinthe required is placed at some distance underneath, and consequently the drops of water falling from a height of over a foot ensures the two liquids being per- fectly mixed. In other restaurants small glasses are kept which fit into the top of a tumbler. In the bottom of this glass there is a small hole which allows the water to escape a drop at a time. It is as well to bear in mind these facts, as they show the importance of care in mixing absinthe. Absinthe in England is used chiefly as a tonic. It is in- tensely bitter, and a few drops mixed with sherry instead of bitters is an ex- cellent tonic before a meal. When mixed with any liquor containing alcohol it does not turn cloudy. It is often recommended for dyspepsia, but it is exceedingly hurtful when taken con- stantly and to excess, when it has a most injuiious effect on the nervous system. ALMONDS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of almonds is perhaps one of the most use- ful of all the essences used in cooking. The most important point for cooks to bear in mind in using essence of almonds is not to use too much. Many dishes have been spoilt by ignorant persons who imagine that you cannot have too much of a good thing. In flavouring, the proper quantity should rarely ex- ceed two or three drops. For instance, suppose you wish to flavour a cornflour pudding to be made in a quart mould, three drops of essence of almonds would be ample. Essence of almonds can be used for flavouring cakes, jellies, cus- tards, etc., but more than the quantity mentioned should never be used. As an instance of the use of essence of almonds I would mention a dish known as sweet omelet with pink noyeau. Make an ordinary sweet omelet, and shake over it plenty of powdered sugar. Next take a couple of tablespoonfuls of brandy, which should be coloured pink with a few drops of cochineal. Then add to this two or three drops of essence of almonds. Set light to this by hold- ing a light under a tablespoonful of the mixture till it catches fire, and then pour it over the omelet. The remain- der caii then be poured over and the dish served. This is a most delicious dish. Essence of almonds can also be used for flavouring claret cup. Drop two drops into a tablespoon, and then fill the spoon with brandy and add to the cup. When noyeau or maraschino are not to be obtained this is a very good substitute. There are many sauces, such as Dutch sauce, melted butter, or butter sauce, white sauce for boiled BCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 2 turkey or fowl, bechamel sauce, etc., which are improved by having a “ suspicion ” of the flavour of almonds. To give this, turn the bottle of essence of almonds upside down on to the cork. Then take out the cork and touch a spoon with the moist cork, and stir up the sauce with the spoon. This is ample for the purpose. The essence of almonds supplied by Crosse and Black- well is guaranteed free from prussic acid. ALMONDS, CRYSTALLISED. — Al- monds are preserved green and then crystallised, in which form they make a nice fruit for dessert. The almonds are preserved green in the outer shell when young, just as walnuts are pickled in their outer shells. When preserved the inside part of the almond is a syrup, while the outer part is a thick green covering, somewhat similar to citron in flavour, only of a far darker colour. Sliced pre- served green almonds are sometimes used for ornamenting sweets instead of angelica, as often almonds possess a darker green colour. (See Angelica.) In all boxes of mixed fruits, or assorted fruits, crystallised almonds form a part. AMERICAN OYSTERS.—See Oysters. ANCHOVIES, GORGONA.—The an- chovy is a small fish caught in the Mediterranean Sea, the headquarters of the fishery being the little island of (iorgona. The fish has delicate silver scales, and its most useful form is when pickled in brine. It was formerly artifi- cially coloured red, but this has of late years been discontinued. In addition to this it is sometimes afterwards pre- served in oil and vinegar. There is probably no fish so extensively used in cooking as the anchovy, and no flavour- ing,not even excepting mushroom, which ■would be more missed by the skilled chef. It would be quite impossible to give a detailed list of all the uses to which an- chovies and the sauce made from them can be turned, but a few of the chief ones are well worthy of careful atten- tion. First there is some little art in filleting anchovies, and by filleting I mean removing the bone. 1 will accord- ingly begin with the receipt of— ANCHOVIES, HOW TO FILLET.— Take the number required out of the bottle carefully so as not to break them. To do this it will often be found advis- able to turn out the whole jar of an- chovies into a basin, letting the ancho- vies slide out of their own accord. When cooks stick a fork into the fish and pull them out, they are apt to break, and when they are required to be cut into thin strips, which is often necessary, this entails waste. After selecting the number required, the remainder can be replaced in the jar, the whole of the brine poured back, and the bottle re- placed, after seeing that the brine covers the fish, as otherwise they would soon get bad and have to be thrown away. Next take the fish and wash them care- fully in fresh water. Do not rub off the silver scales more than you can help, but wash away all the brine, the lumps of salt, and also the soft pappy part, which is not nice. You will find near the breast of the fish some soft part something like the soft row of herrings ; this should all be washed away; also use. several waters. Then take the fish and dry them on a cloth, and open them up along the bone, using the fingers, so that they lie open from head to tail. Some- ' times you will want a knife, but as a rule the fingers are best. Then take the. bone at the tail end with the fin of the tail sticking to it, and with the fingers or a blunt knife pull away the flesh from the bone, which must be thrown away. Remember also to remove the little fins. Each anchovy will always make two fillets, and these fillets can, until care and a sharp knife, be again cut in two and sometimes three thin strips, according to what they are in- tended for. Some cooks wash the fillets after boning the anchovy, but this is a mistake. It tends to lose the flavour. Having now filleted the an- chovies I will describe a few of the many purposes for which they may be used, and one of the most common is that known as— ANCHOVIES ON TOAST.—The ordi- dary receipt is to make some hot- buttered toast, cut it into strips, put the fillets on the strips, put it in the oven till the anchovy gets hot, and then send it to table. There is, however, a far better method than this. Hot buttered toast is never so good as when fresh made. Also the anchovy in the oven is apt to get dry. Act accordingly as follows : Get a little pie-dish—a very small one will do, or even a saucer.HO USEKEEPHR'S G UIDE. Fillet the anchovies—each anchovy will make two fillets only for anchovies on toast. Melt enough butter in the dish to cover the anchovies, and make the anchovies hot in the butter in the oven. How often the anchovies on toast are dry. Then make your buttered toast, cut it after being well buttered on both sides into thin strips, and take the fillet of anchovy out of the hot butter and put it on the strip of toast. Half a minute in the oven and the dish is ready. If you wish to get anchovies on toast to perfection, like what you would get at the Freemasons’ Tavern, this is the method to pursue. Some few years back the great chef dc cuisine was the late Mr. Charles Dime Francatelli, formerly clicf to Her Majesty the Queen. In his book on cooking, entitled ‘ ‘ The Modem Cook,” he gives the following receipt for— ANCHOVY SANDWICHES, prefacing his receipt with the statement that “the. finest Gorgona anchovies are imported by Crosse and Blackwell, Soho Square.” The receipt is as follows : Order a dozen very small round rolls, rasp them all over, cut off the top, remove all the crumb, place them on a dish, and set them aside. Next chop four hard- boiled eggs very fine and put them into a small basin with a tablespoonful of chopped burnet, tarragon, chervil, and chives ; season with four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of French vinegar, and a little pepper and salt. Mix the whole well together, and use this preparation for filling the rolls with ; then place some small fillets of anchovies (pre- viously prepared) over the sandwiches at about one-eighth of an inch distant from each other, and place another row of fillets across these at a similar dis- tance. Dish the sandwiches up on a napkin, in the form of a pyramid, and serve. It is, however, possible to have an anchovy sandwich in a more simple form, so I will give a receipt for— ANCHOVY SANDWICHES ANOTHER WAY.—Make some toast and butter it and cut it into small squares. Get some hard-boiled eggs, and cut them into slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Lay a slice of egg on each piece of toast and a fillet of anchovy curled round on the slice of egg. These sand- wiches can be served either hot or cold, and a little black or cayenne pepper added according to taste. Another nice form of serving filleted anchovies is— ANCHOVY SALAD.—There are various ways of serving and dressing anchovy salad. One way is to take a French lettuce, and place it in a small salad bowl with about half a dozen anchovies filleted, say twenty-four fillets. Add a few young spring onionB, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a slice or two of lemon cut thin. Then dress it with salad oil, lemon juice, and a little pepper. A more common form of serving anchovy salad is to send up the filleted anchovies in a plate, in the shape of a trellis-worlc over some chop- ped hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley, and chopped capers. By chopping the white separate from the yellow four colours can be obtained, the white, yellow, and two shades of green, while the fillets of anchovies cross each other over the top. With a little ingenuity and taste a very pretty dish can be formed by this means, though perhaps properly speaking it should be called an— ANCHOVY APPETISER.—There are various forms of anchovy appetisers, one very nice one being to fill a stoned olive with a fillet of anchovy and to place this on a piece of fried bread shaped round. The olive can be stuck on to the bread by means of a little dab of mayonnaise sauce. Another little dab of mayonnaise sauce can be placed on the top of the olive. These little appetisers are very good at the com- mencement of a dinner as a substitute for oysters. One very useful purpose which anchovies filleted may be used for is— ANCHOVIES FILLETED TO ORNA- MENT SALADS.—Filleted anchovies are particularly useful in decorating salads, especially mayonnaise salads. Thin fillets of anchovies should be placed round the base of a mayonnaise salad of lobster, salmon, smoked salmon—in fact, any mayonnaise. The fillets should be cut as thin as possible, and laid across each other like diamond panes of glass. The anchovies filleted not only form an excellent additional garnish, but also are an essential part of the salad itself so far as the flavouring is4 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S concerned. Another very useful com- pound made from filleted anchovies is— ANCHOVY BUTTER.—This is made by pounding the fillets of anchovies with a little butter, just sufficient to make a smooth paste. Then add a little cay- enne pepper, and put the anchovy butter by for use. When made in any quan- tity it is always best to rub the anchovy butter through a hair sieve; this ensures getting rid of all the little bones, some of which, especially those small ones in the fins, may have been overlooked in the process of filleting. Anchovy butter is used for a variety of purposes, and as the cayenne pepper enables the butter to be kept for some time, it is always useful to have some ready made. An- chovy butter is used for flavouring sauces, such as devil sauce, etc. It is also used for steaks. The well-known steak sold at the various restaurants under the management of Messrs. Spiers and Pond, known as “ Rump Steak a la S. and P.,” is a plain grilled steak, which, after it is grilled, is rubbed over with anchovy butter, made, as I have said, from Gorgona anchovies. Anchovy butter is also used in making Scotch woodcock, which is a compound of the flavour of egg and anchovy, or cream and anchovy, so blended as to resemble the delicious flavour of the inside of game that has been kept long enough, but not too long. Por a receipt for this delicious dish see Anchovy Paste. ANCHOVIES IN OIL.—Anchovies, after pickling, are boned and preserved in oil. A bottle or so of ready-boned ancho- vies in oil is extremely convenient, as when anchovies are required in a hurry for a salad or any other purpose, it is a great savin" of time to have them ready to hand. Inexperienced cooks, who feel themselves not up to the process of boning without breaking, will find this form of anchovy very acceptable. They can be used for all the purposes men- tioned above, and before being used should be dried on a cloth. When an- chovies in oil are used for anchovies on toast, they can be made hot in a little of the oil, and then placed on toast. Cooks, especially where there is only one, will at once see the advantage of having a bottle of anchovies ready fil- leted in oil in the house. Suppose, after dinner, the order comes down, “ Send up a few anchovies on toast directly.” It is a mere question of making a little hot toast. The delay of opening a bottle in brine, then washing and filleting, is done away with. Still, anchovies in oil do not possess quite the flavour of those in brine, and are a trifle harder. ANCHOVIES IN VINEGAR. — Ancho- vies, after being pickled in brine, are sometimes preserved in vinegar. This imparts to the anchovies a slightly acid taste—very slight, but perceptible. For appetisers, anchovy sandwich, anchovies on toast, salads, and mayonnaise salads, anchovies in vinegar are perhaps pre- ferable to those in brine. This is, how- ever, purely a matter of taste. By those who possess the German love for acids, anchovies in vinegar would of course be preferred. In making an- chovy butter lor sauces or Scotch woodcock, anchovies preserved in brine are the best. ANCHOVY PASTE.—Anchovy paste is one of the cheapest and perhaps the most useful forms of the various prepa- rations of anchovies, and is the cheapest preserved food in existence. It is so useful for a variety of purposes and a little goes such a long way. Indeed, few persons are aware to what a variety of purposes anchovy paste can be turned. I will take an everyday case, and appeal to housekeepers. Suppose the common case that your husband takes with him every day to his business a packet of sandwiches for lunch. Sup- pose, too, he takes occasionally that very nice sandwich known as egg sandwich. Suppose, again, that you wish you could get him to take a little more nourish- ment than he now does; you know it would be better for him. Act as fol- low's Buy a sixpenny pot of anchovy paste. Cut him just double the quan- tity of egg sandwiches that you usually do. When you have cut the bread-and- butter, then with a silver knife, or, better still, an ivory paper-knife, just smear over a very, very little of the anchovy paste over the hutter. Don't overdo it or it will be too salt. Make the surface a light pink. Don't add any salt at all. Shake a little white or black pepper over the paste. Put on the pieces of egg as usual, and cut up the sandwiches. I will undertake toHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. say that this addition of the anchovy paste will be sufficient to cause the double quantity of sandwiches to be eaten with a relish. ' Try the receipt and see. Anchovy paste is also used for making Scotch woodcock. There are various ways of making Scotch woodcock, but the base of all alike is an anchovy toast. Make a thick piece of toast of a piece of bread cut off a quartern loaf the whole round. Cut off the crust, toast the bread a nice brown on both sides, and then butter it thoroughly, and spread a layer of anchovy paste over the toast. Cover this over with some freshly- whipped cream. This is the best of all Scotch woodcocks. The difficulty often occurs that cream cannot be obtained. In this case a very good substitute is to place on the anchovy toast a very light omelet. In making the omelet for this purpose the whites should be whisked separate from the yolks. In fact, the omelet should be something between an ordinary omelet and an omelet souffle. Anchovy paste assists in making one of the most delicious little entrees or appetisers known. Cut some round pieces of bread, and fry them a bright golden-brown colour in some lard, and drain it. Smear over the bread with a thin coating of anchovy paste. Lay on the top of that a piece of hot fried bacon-fat, cut if possible as thin as a five-pound note. Place on the top of the bacon-fat a roast oyster, and pour the liquor of the oyster over the whole, so that it can be soaked up by the fried bread. A roast oyster is an oyster placed deep shell downwards on the gridiron for a few minutes. Directly the oyster opens it is done. Be careful not to waste the liquor. These little delicious appetisers, or bons bouches, are sometimes called “ flying angels.” When cayenne pepper is added to the anchovy paste and sprinkled over the oyster they are called “ devils on horseback.” Anchovy paste is a very useful addition to the breakfast-table. A very little added to buttered toast or plain bread- and-butter will often enable a person with a delicate appetite to make a start, whose breakfast otherwise would con- sist of a cup of tea. There are very many persons who absolutely cannot eat breakfast. The doctor says, “ Oh, you should try,” and he orders a tonic. Try my tonic, viz., a piece of bread- and-butter cut as thin as a wafer. Then the slightest of smears over with anchovy paste, double the bread-and- butter over, and now try. You will probably want another piece, and having once begun the stomach is roused from its dormant state, and you will be able to follow on with more substantial food. There are many persons whose habits are of necessity late, and who require a morning’s pick-me-up in the shape of a brandy and soda before they can take any breakfast. The habit is somewhat injurious, and a thin anchovy sandwich cut as I have described will often be found to have the same effect. ANCHOVY SAUCE.—Anchovy sauce is the best known of all fish sauce. Its uses are almost unlimited. One of its great properties is the power it possesses, when used in small quantities, of bring- ing out and assisting other flavours. For instance, take the case of oyster soup. Suppose you have got the soup ready for pouring over the oysters, and as I shall describe under Oysters, you have used up a tin of oysters, added the liquor, and rubbed the tinned oysters themselves through a wire sieve. We will suppose the soup is ready ; taste it. Say you have a quart. Now add a brimming teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and taste the soup again. What a difference! You do not taste any anchovy, but the soup seems as if you had quite doubled the quantity of oysters used in preparing it. Anchovy sauce is added to melted butter, or, still better, handed round with it. Indeed, in every hotel and house in England anchovy sauce is a necessity with every kind of boiled and fried fish. It should also be handed with lobster sauce and shrimp sauce, as the majority of persons will be found to add more. A little anchovy sauce should be used whenever boiled fish is wanned up. Also in fish vol-aux-vents a little anchovy sauce is requisite, as well as in vol-aux-vents of oyster, shrimp, and lobster, and all other shell-fish, as well as Bisque soup. A very nice, cheap, and easily made Scotch woodcock can be made with the assistance of anchovy sauce. First make a piece of hot buttered toast. Have ready a couple of hard-boiled eggs hot. Remove the outer shells, put them in a basin with a little butter and mince them with a knife and fork. Put just enough butter to r*ake the pieces of eggc CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S moist. Now add a dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce and a little pepper. Mix it well up and spread this mixture over the toast. Put it in the oven for a minute and serve quickly. This is a nice quick way of making Scotch wood- cock, and it does not require more than ten minutes’ notice to tne cook. The eggs should boil about ten minutes or rather less. Anchovy sauce can be used to assist in ornamenting fish when served in some thick white sauce. Suppose we have that very nice dish known as Sole a la Normandie. That is a sole served up in a thick white sauce garnished with small button mushrooms, oysters, mussels, and ci'ayfish. Take a little of the sauce, about a teas poonful, and add enough anchovy sauce to make it pink. .Tust before serving roll a piece of paper to a point and pour this pink sauce in. By holding the paper near the point the sauce can be dropped out at will. Make a little crimp border round the edge of the sole like fluting. This improves not only the appearance of the dish but the flavour. This is what cooks know as piping. I will only give one more in- stance of the uses of anchovy sauce, but the subject is almost infinite. I will describe how to make devilled eggs. Take half a dozen eggs, boil them hard, remove the outer shells, and cut them in half. Squeeze out the yolk from each white cup, and cut off the tip of the cup so that it will stand upright. Now put all the yolks into a basin and mix enough butter to it so that it makes a thick paste that can be shaped. Now add a brimming teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and a good saltspoonful of cay- enne pepper. Mix it all up well to- gether till it is smooth, and fill the little white cups—i.e., the empty whites of eggs, twelve in number. Arrange them on a dish, surround them with plenty of dark double parsley, or what makes an excellent and far cheaper substitute, some leaves of Scotch kale, now sold by all greengrocers. If you want to make the dish look very pretty, chop up fine all the tips cut off the ends of the eggs. Take half of this and put it on a saucer with two or three drops of cochineal and shake them. This will make them pink. Now place little heaps round the dish of pink and white alternately and a few pink and white specks can be sprinkled over the devilled eggs them- selves. These devilled eggs are very nice, and can be served hot or cold, but are nicest cold. This makes an excellent dish for breakfast, luncheon, or supper, but is especially suitable for the latter , meal. In using anchovy sauce, remem- ber to always snake the bottle. ANGELICA, CANDIED.—Candied an- gelica is one of the most useful of what may be termed crystallised or candied fruits for the purpose of ornamenting. It can be cut into thin strips of consi- derable length, and has an agreeable taste as well as colour. English cooks do not sufficiently value angelica as an ornament, whereas on the Continent it is in constant use. As an instance of how angelica can be used to ornament sweets, I will take the simple case of a cornflour pudding made in a mould, consisting of an oval dish—say, for in- stance, an empty Yorkshire pie-dish. Were the pudding made plain and un- gamished it would have the most unin- viting appearance ; but first suppose two or three drops of essence of almonds have been added to the pudding, and the pudding turned out on to a dish. First take some angelica and cut it into strips, and cut two of these strips an inch long, and in the shape of a spike or pyramid, half an inch broad at the base, and going to a point. Cut two more strips three-quarters of an inch long and three-eighths of an inch broad at the base, also going to a point. Then stick a preserved cherry in the centre of the mould, and make it the centre of a star, the two long strips pointing outwards longways, and the two short strips pointing outwards sideways. Round the edge of the mould, at a distance of one inch, put alternately a preserved cherry and a small star of angelica— the star consisting of two little strips half an inch long and one-eighth of an inch in width, simply laid across one another at right angles. Then thicken a little sugar-and-water with a little cornflour, add a few drops of cochineal, two drops of essence of almonds, and also if possible add a tablespoonful of rum, and pour this sweet sauce round the mould. Just contrast this dish, flavoured and ornamented, with one without either, then calculate the cost. Without the rum the flavouring and ornaments would not cost one half- penny, and yet English cooks won’t take the trouble to use this cheap andHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. i economical garnish. Strips of angelica can be used for the purpose of orna- menting tipsy-cakes, and contrast very well with blanched almonds cut into strips. Chopped angelica is also used to ornament cakes that have been glazed over with some bright brown syrup. The chopped angelica is mixed with some coarse chopped white sugar, and the green specks contrast well with the white specks. A sponge cake glazed and ornamented this way has a very pretty effect. ANGLO-SWISS MILK.—See Milk. ANGOSTURA BITTERS. — Angostura bitters is a very powerful bitter, and is used in drops, which are added to sherry, champagne, etc. Two or three drops are sufficient for a glass. It is prepared from the bark of a tree that grows in tropical South America known as the bark of Galipea Cusparia—Angostura bark-tree. It is supposed to be good for dyspepsia, and in South America is used for the same purpose as quinine. It is important to buy the genuine I )r. Siegert’s Angostura Bitters. The bark of Stryehnos mix vomica has sometimes been substituted for true cusparia or angostura bark. False cusparia yields brncia and strychnia; the tine bark contains neither of these alkaloids. Angostura bitters is best taken shortly before a meal in a small quantity of gin or sherry. Mixed with champagne it makes a good pick-me-up. APPLE JELLY.—Apple jelly is a sweet generally sold in glasses. It is often eaten as a preserve, but can be used with all kinds of white meats in the same way as red-currant jelly is taken with roast mutton. It is sometimes recom- mended to invalids who suffer from excitable throats, but should be taken somewhat sparingly, as it is rather sickly. ■ APPLES, BOTTLED.—Bottled apples are convenient for making apple pies when fresh apples cannot be obtained. They are already cooked, and simply want covering over with pie-crust. As a rule they will not come out whole, but settle down in the pie-dish into a pulp. The juice in the bottle should be first poured off and sweetened and added to the apples in the pic-dish. It will be found a very great improvement in making apple pies from bottled apples to add a few thin strips of lemon-peel and also a few cloves to the pie. The lemon-peel should be cut very thin, and j only the yellow part used. A good- sized pie would require two bottles of apples. To this should be added half a dozen strips of lemon the size and thick- ness of the thumb-nail and about ten or a dozen cloves. Bottled apples, being very soft, are very well adapted for making open apple tarts, which require apple-pulp. When you use bottled | fruits for this purpose remember the pulp wants flavouring, but that the apples already are quite sufficiently cooked. Proceed, therefore, as follows: [ —Take a bottle of apples, and pour off i the juice into a small saucepan (enamel if possible). Then add to the juice from j one bottle three or four strips of lemon - peel, six cloves, and a tiny little stick of ■ cinnamon, and sweeten with sugar. Boil this gently for half an hour, and when cold add to it the apples and mash them up. Then line a shallow tart-tin, after carefully buttering it, with puff- I paste. Spread the apple-pulp over it, and lay a little trellis-work of very thin j strips of pastry, not bigger than a lucifer-match, over the top, and bake in I the oven till the pastry is done. Half j an hour, as a rule, would be sufficient. Apple trifle can be made from bottled apples. Flavour some pulp as directed for open tarts, and place in a glass dish. Four over it some cold rich custarcl flavoured with a little brandy. Then on the top place some good firm whipped cream, and pile it up in lumps into a sort of rough pyramid. Ornament at the last just before serving with some coarse powdered pink sugar—i.e., have some powdered sugar and sift it. Take the little rough pieces that won’t go through the sifter, and place them on a plate that has been washed over with some cochineal—i.e., some cochineal has been allowed to run over it and the plate remains wet. Shake these lumps over the plate, and the sugar will turn pink. Sprinkle the coloured sugar very sparingly over the whipped cream. This sets off the dish. Whenever bottled apples are used, and for whatever pur- pose, the cook should carefully, examine each piece and remove any core that 1 may remain in the apple, as very often a considerable quantity will be found. Apples bottled are also very useful forCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S s making apple sauce for roast goose, duck, pork, etc. The pulp should be sweetened and slightly flavoured with lemon-peel and cloves. APRICOT JAM.—Apricot jam is gene- rally considered to be the king among jams; it is universally liked, and is as a rule rather more expensive than the majority of jams. For making all kinds of sweets where jam is required apricot jam is certainly superior to others. For sweet omelets apricot jam is the best. In making a sweet omelet cooks should bear in mind that they should be served immediately they are made. Now it will often be found, when an omelet is served, that though the omelet itself is nice and hot, the jam served with it is nearly cold. Sometimes cooks will make the omelet, then add a spoonful or two of jam out of the pot, wrap the omelet over the jam, and put it in the oven to get hot. Too often it is left there not'quite long enough for the jam to get properly hot and yet quite long enough for the omelet to get heavy. In making sweet omelets with jam always take out what jam you think will be necessary, put it on a plate and put it in the oven before you make the omelet. This applies of course to every kind of jam. By this means you can put the jam in the omelet at once and serve the omelet directly it is made. Apricot jam, owing to its bright colour, forms a very pretty contrast with jam of other colours, such as greengage or raspberry. A very pretty dish can be made owing to the contrast of colour of two different kinds of jam, one of which is apricot, as follows. Take some rice and boil it in some milk till it is tender, using about sufficient milk for the rice to just absorb it. Sweeten the rice and flavour it with a little cinnamon or lemon-peel, or essence of almonds. Mix in three or four eggs, and when thoroughly mixed put it in a baking dish say eight inches square and put it in the oven to bake. Take care first to butter the dish. When the rice cake is set, which owing to the eggs it will soon do, take out the square cake, and put on it eight layers of apricot and rasp- berry jam in alternate layers one inch each. It is best to hold a piece of tin or cardboard upright while putting on the jam so as toprevent the jams running into one another. Now take a sharp knife and cut the rice cake in eight strips, cutting across the straight layers. You nave now eight strips, call them Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, counting from the left. Now reverse the position of strips Nos. 2,4, G and 8— i.e., just turn them round and place the eight strips close together, and you have a perfect chess-board of sixty-four ■squares alternately red and yellow. This has a very pretty effect and is a very nice and suitable dish for children’s evening parties. English cooks, I mean the “good plain cooks,” are too often unnecessarily plain. They cannot get beyond the large oval open jam tart, and the only attempt at ornament is the filigree work of little bars of pastry thrown across. It is just as easy to make a round tart as an oval one. It is merely a question of the shape of the tin. Then how easy to fill the tart with jams varying in colour. Draw two lines across the tart through the centre at right angles to one another and fill the four quarter circles, with apricot jam in one, greengage in the next, some pine- apple jam or marmalade or peach jam next, so that it is opposite the light- coloured apricot jam, and then some strawberry or raspberry jam in the re- maining quarter circle. Next get a little syrup, which can be coloured brown with a few drops of some kind of brown- ing such as Parisian essence. Take a pastry brush and paint the pastry round the edge a sticky brown, then sprinkle over it some coarse white sugar and chopped angelica, so that the little white and green specks show distinctly against the brown. A few half almonds blanched can also be added to ornament the rim of pastry. If our good plain cook were to try this dish as I say—it only wants a round tin—she could not fail. The sweet has a decidedly foreign look, and after one or.two successful attempts she would be entitled to drop the “ plain.” Apricot jam can be used for tipsy-cake and trifle, but I think for this purpose raspberry is superior. APRICOT MARMALADE. — Apricot marmalade is somewhat similar to apricot jam. It is, however, more solid and better adapted for breakfast or tea than the jam itself. Apricot marmalade contains the kernels of the apricot,which tend greatly to improve the flavour.HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 9 It is a capital preserve for the sweets known as fingers—i.c., a layer of jam spread between two thin strips of pastry. Owing to its firmness a good thick row of marmalade can be laid between the two pieces of pastry without the pre- serve running out. Now in the case of many kinds of jam, such as plum, but very little could be put in. Apricot marmalade is also suitable for very small tartlets, as the preserve, owing to its solidity, can be raised up in a heap in the centre in a sort of little mound. When tartlets are sent to table a dish should be made as much as possible to vary in colour) one or two can be filled with apricot marmalade, others with greengage jam, or strawberry or plum, etc.; also orange marmalade makes another shade of yellow. Any open tarts made from apricot marmalade can be ornamented by means of preserved | cherries, angelica in little strips or | stars, also sliced almonds, and the white I kernels of the apricots themselves, i Apricot marmalade is a very good pre- serve for serving with and ornamenting puddings. Take the plain arrowroot pudding, or cornflour pudding; when the latter is turned out cold from a mould, little heaps of api’icot marma- lade can be placed round on a glass dish, and can be eaten with it. Apricot marmalade is extremely wholesome, i and admirably adapted for the nursery. I Francatelli gives the following receipt j for apricot Charlotte h, la Francaise :— “ About a dozen not over ripe apricots cut into quarters, skinned, and the kernels taken from the stones, should | be placed in a saucepan with a pound i pot of apricot marmalade, the whole to j be tossed over a stove fire until the pieces i of apricot are just barely warmed j through ; and with this preparation fill 1 a lined Charlotte-mould—brioche being used for the purpose instead of bread. When the Charlotte is turned out on to its dish, pour some honey diluted with a liqueur called ratafia d' abricots round the base, and serve.” APRICOT SYRUP.—-Apricot syrup is a most delightful and refreshing drink on a hot day when mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water. It is very nice with plain cold water, but the effervescence is certainly a great improvement. It is , much to be regretted that these various | fruit syrups are not more generally used in England than they are. There is much said about the national vice, but what choice has a poor man on a hot day between a glass of beer and nothing? Drinking fountains are few and far between, and often in hot weather there is a craving, not necessarily for a stimu- lant, yet for something more than water. In summer ginger-beer is tepid and goes chiefly to the nose. Lemonade so called is sickly, and yet these are the only two beverages known beyond the glass of beer, which contains just sufficient salt to make the poor man quickly crave for another. Were it possible in summer time to get every grocer in England to sell iced water and syrup at one penny a glass, more would be done to stop drunkenness than all the efforts of the Blue Ribbon Army and the teetotal societies have ever yet accomplished. In France these fruit syrups are to be met with in every restaurant in every village. In still warmer climates there is the glass of sherbet always to be ob- tained. In every restaurant in New York the waiter brings you, even for breakfast, the glass of iced water as a matter of course, without being asked for it. Were syrups more universally sold, though confirmed drinkers might not take to them, the effect on the rising generation would be enormous. Pre- vention is better than cure. I remem- ber some years back noticing the fact that the lads employed in the late train- ing quarters of Count Lagrange at New- market (Jennings’s), who at Newmarket always drank beer, in Paris took groseille and water, and preferred the latter. A list of the various syrups to be obtained is given under the head- ing of Syrups, various. APRICOTS, BOTTLED.—Bottled apri- cots are used for making plain tarts, j The liquor in which they are bottled is I not sweetened, and should be added to the fruit in the pie after it has been sweetened. Bottled apricots can be mashed up, and the pulp used for a variety of purposes. The pulp will, as a rule, require sweetening. Under the heading Apricots in Syrup will be found a number of receipts in which bottled apricots can be equally well used. The question of how sweet any dish should be is purely one of taste. Many persons object to too much sugar, and some, on medical grounds, object to10 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S any. Bottled apricots are not so sweet as those preserved in other ways. APRICOTS, CRYSTALLISED. — These are one of the nicest of crystallised fruits for dessert. In preparing a dish of as- sorted fruits for dessert care should be taken to arrange the fruits so that the variety of colour gives the dish a nice appearance. For this purpose, green, in the shape of crystallised almonds, greengages, etc., should preponderate, and be placed round the base. APRICOTS IN JUICE. — Apricots pre- served in juice are something between apricots bottled and apricots in syrup. They are not too sweet for the purpose of tarts, still are better adapted for open tarts than for closed ones. They can be used for all the purposes men- tioned in Apricots in Syrup, which is probably the most useful form in which apricots are preserved whole. APRICOTS IN SYRUP. -Apricots pre- served in syrup is by far the most useful form in which they can be kept. I will run through a variety of different ways in which they can be used. First of all they can be sent to table quite plain. But it will be best to give each receipt under a separate heading, com- mencing with— APRICOTS, PLAIN.—Open a tin of apricots and pile the fruit up in a pyra- mid form on a glass dish. Then orna- ment the crevices with preserved cherries and small round pieces of angelica, or sliced preserved green almonds. Some blanched dried almonds can also be cut into strips, and these strips can be stuck into the,apricots, similar to a tipsy-cake. Some of the syrup of the apricots should be poured round the base of the dish. As this syrup is generally of a somewhat muddy colour, a little cochineal should be added to it to make it a bright pink or red. This dish can be served either as a sweet or for dessert, and can be got ready at a few moments’ notice ; but when there is ample time beforehand a far prettier sweet can be made out of apricots, for instance— APRICOTS IN RICE BORDERS.—Make a border of boiled rice, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla, or cinnamon, or lemon, or essence of almonds, etc. The rice border must be round and set with egg. A good mould, where none is at hand for the purpose, can be made by I putting a small cake tin inside a larger ! ' ,ne> aiid baking the rice and egg round I the outer rim thus formed. Place the rice border on a dish, and pile up the apricots high in the middle in a pyramid shape, and ornament it with dried cherries and angelica, or some green pre- serve as before mentioned. Next take the syrup, strain it, and clarify it with a white of egg. Dissolve in it sufficient isinglass or gelatine to make it a jelly when cold. You must add the gelatine in proportion to the quantity of syrup you have to set, the proportion being two. ounces of gelatine to a quart. When you have added and dissolved the proper quantity of gelatine, colour it red with cochineal, and when nearly cold add a small glass of brandy. When the jelly is nearly set pour some gently over the apricots, and also over the border of rice, which will look like rice covered with red glass. Alternate red preserved cherries and almonds green crystallised, the latter cut in halves, can ■ be placed round the top of the rice border, which gives it a finish. This dish, considering the small cost, is well worth taking tne trouble to make as here directed. Of course it is not abso- lutely necessary to clear the syrup, but the improved appearance will well repay you the extra trouble. APRICOT FRITTERS.—Open a tin of apricots and pick out the least ripe ones. Drain them from the syrup and dry l them as much as possible. Have ready some good stiff batter and some smoking hot lard. Dip each piece of apricot in some powdered sugar, so as to have them perfectly dry, and then imme- diately dip the pieces into the batter, and throw them into the lard. As soon as the fritter is a nice ljrown—if the lard is properly hot it will be done in a few seconds—take them out, drain the frit- lei's on a napkin for a minute, shake some powdered sugar over them, and served hot. APRICOT CREAM ICE. — Take a tin of apricots and rub the whole, juice and all, through a wire sieve. Add if necessary some sugar and mix it with some cream. The proportion for ices is one pound of pulp to one pint of cream. A little vegetable colouring—yellow—HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 11 (see Vegetable Colouring)—gives the ice a richer look. Then freeze the mix- ture in a freezing-machine in the ordi- nary way. A former pupil of mine, Mr. C. W. Baker, who is now one of the head cooks in the service of the Peninsular and Oriental Steamship Company, a service so famed for good cheer, tells me that these ices are the most popular of all on board ship. A small glass of noyeau may be added with advantage to the mixture before freezing. APRICOT WATER ICE.—This is simply made by freezing the pulp and syrup when it is properly mixed without add- ing cream. In this case it would be best not to add any colouring matter. A small glass of noyeau may be added, and will improve the flavour as before. Apricots also can be used to make APRICOT CREAM, SOLID—For this purpose proceed exactly as in making apricot ice-cream, only instead of freez- ing the mixture dissolve in the juice before mixing some gelatine or isinglass —proportion, two ounces to a quart. Then pour the mixture into a mould, and when set turn it out. A lighter cream may be made as follows, known as APRICOT BAVARIAN CREAM.—Take a couple of dozen pieces of the tinned apricot—each piece is half an apricot as a rule—and boil these in about a quarter of a pint of their syrup till the apricots are thoroughly dissolved. Then rub the mixture through a hair sieve into a large basin, and mix with it a pint of whipped cream and an ounce and a half of clari- fied isinglass. Pour the cream into an oiled mould and let it set in rough ice. Another nice use to which preserved apricots can be put is to make APRICOT TART, OPEN.—Get some puff-paste and line a well-buttered tin. When the paste is baked, fill the tart as follows :—First pour in a rich syrup made from the syrup of the apricots, coloured with cochineal, and sufficient gelatine dissolved in it to make it nearly set. Now place the pieces of apricots with the concave side up in the syrup so that the edges of the apricots are slightly above the syrup, then with a spoon fill the little concave places in the apricot, the place where tne kernel was, with some more syrup, coloured, so that the apricots look like yellow rings in a red pool. When quite cold place a white kernel of the apricot in the centre of each ring on the red, taking care it does not sink in, but looks white. If you have not enough kernels almonds will do. The border of pastry can be glazed and sprinkled with coarse sugar and chopped angelica. Tinned apricots will also make a very pretty dish of APRICOT TARTLETS.—Make a few tartlet cases, pour a little apricot syrup into each, and then place half an apricot in each case. Press it down in the case, and place a preserved cherry in the centre of each. ARCHANGEL OX TONGUES. — See Tongues. AROMATIC MONTSERRAT CORDIAL. —This cordial is a preparation from Montserrat lime-fruit juice flavoured with certain spices. It is entirely free from alcohol, and is a teetotaller’s drink. It is said to be a winter’s drink, and evidently contains ginger, and probably also some of the essential oils, such as oil of nutmeg and oil of lemon. It is a very agreeable drink alone, and a wineglassful mixed in a tumbler of cold spring water forms a most refreshing draught when one is thirsty. ARROWROOT.-—Arrowroot is a fine white powder consisting chiefly of pure starch, extracted from the rhizomes of the Maranta arnndinacca. There are several different kinds of arrowroot, viz., Bermuda, Natal,St. Vincent, West Indian, and a fine kind called Tous-les- mois made from the Ganna Edulis in the West Indies. Of all these the Bermuda arrowroot is universally ad- mitted to be the best. Arrowroot is largely used in this country, and being very light of digestion is a popular form of food in cases of sickness. The amount of arrowroot annually imported into this country is stated to exceed 400 tons. There is a considerable amount of adulteration practised in connection with arrowroot, and it is always advis- able to take the precaution of seeing the name of some well-known respect- able firm on the label. Arrowroot is used for a variety of purposes besides that of making invalids’ food, but I will first give a few instances ofCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 12 ARROWROOT FOR INVALIDS.— Arrowroot can be mixed either with , milk or water. Take say a tablespoon- i fill of arrowroot and moisten it with a ! little milk or water and then pour on it some boiling milk or boiling water and keep stirring it. The arrowroot will cause the milk or water to become thick in proportion to the amount of fluid added. For invalids this must neces- sarily be a matter of taste. If you want to make arrowroot into a firm . jelly that will turn out of a mould, you \ must allow four tablespoonfuls to a quart of boiling fluid. If you want the arrowroot thin, one tablespoonful to a quart will be ample. The next question is, How should arrowroot be flavoured ? This again is a matter of taste, and also dependent on the doctor’s orders. For instance, arrowroot can be flavoured with brandy or rum. When the latter is used, by adding lemon-peel and sugar you can make an imitation punch jelly. Sherry is often used to flavour arrowroot, as well as lemon, essence of almonds, essence of vanilla, nutmeg and all kinds of spices, and sugar to taste. Young children when ill will often refuse arrowroot, regarding it in the light of a medicine; when this is the case, make the arrowroot into a jelly— i.e. four tablespoonfuls to aquart, flavour it as desired, and colour it pink with a little cochineal, whichjnust be added to the milk or water before the arrowroot is mixed. Then pour it into a well-oiled mould, and when it is cold turn it out. Before turning it out the arrowroot should be pulled from the sides gently with the fingers. The whole mass adheres together and wall not break. In this form children wall often take it, especially if told some time before- hand that they are going to have a little jelly for a treat. There is a great art in humouring young children when ill. As a case in point I would mention the case wdiere the doctor has ordered a spoonful of beef-tea to be given occasion- ally to an infant. Nurses know how the little thing rebels against it and spits it out, but it is the nurse’s fault. Nature’s food is sweet, and salt an ac- quired taste, as we learn from our old friend “ Friday.” 'When beef-tea isi given to infants use sugar instead of salt, and no difficulty will be then ex- perienced in getting the little patient to take it. When a considerable amount | of nourishment is ordered, after the arrowroot is made eggs can be added i and beaten in. When the food is for ! invalids' it is best only to add the yolks of the eggs. There are several forms of ARROWROOT PUDDING, which can be made as I have already described by pouring boiling water on to some moistened arrowroot. Eggs can then be added or not according to whether the pudding is required rich or otherwise. ! The pudding can then be poured into a mould or put in a pie-disli and baked for rather less than an hour in the oven. When it is baked some nutmeg should be grated over the top. The flavourings before mentioned in arrowroot for in- valids can be used. When lemon-peel is used, the peel can be boiled in the milk or water, or lumps of sugar can be rubbed on the outside of a lemon and the sugar used to sweeten the arrowroot. When arrowroot pudding is put in a mould and afterwards turned out on to a glass dish it can be served with jam round, which also helps to set off the appearance of the dish. Little heaps of greengage, apricot, and raspberry jam placed round the base of the dish is a great improvement. The top of the mould can sometimes be ornamented with jam, but this depends on the shape of the mould. ARROWROOT, TO THICKEN WITH.— Arrowroot is often used for thickening soups, gravies, etc. Cooks should bear in mind that although the soup or gravy may look plenty thick enough while boiling, yet when it begins to get cool it will get thinner, and therefore, especially in the case of gravy when they use arrow- root for thickening, they must make it thicker than they afterwards want it to be, or in other words they must allow for its getting thinner. For thickening soups and gravies I think cornflour superior to arrowroot. There are various dishes to be made from arrow- root, such as arrowroot blanc-mange, arrowroot cream, arrowroot drops, arrowroot fritters, arrowroot jelly, arrowroot sauce, arrowroot souffle, etc., receipts for making which will be found in Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery. ASPARAGUS.—Asparagus is now sold in tins, and is one of the best of preserved vegetables, as it is quite equal in flavour to fresh. The best method of servingHOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. 13 preserved asparagus is to warm it up in i tire tin. Then when hot cut off the top | of the tin and have ready a piece of j toast in a vegetable dish. Take out the asparagus gently and avoid breaking off | the points. Lay the asparagus -with the points on the toast and the stalk part resting on the edge of the dish half one side and half another. See if any as- paragus tops have been left in the tin, and if so take them out and put them on the centre of the asparagus. Some melted butter or white sauce can be handed round with the asparagus, but should never be poured over it, as many persons prefer to eat it quite plain. Some also like butter simply oiled. One very nice way of eating asparagus is as ASPARAGUS SALAD. — Asparagus makes a capital salad, and one ex- cellent receipt for dressing it is the following : — First take some butter and oil it by placing it in a saucer in the oven. Then take it out and add to it, supposing an ounce of butter has beep oiled, a brimming tea- spoonful of English-made mustard, a dessert-spoonful of English vinegar, and some black pepper. Mix it well up with a fork, and when it begins to get thick, which it soon will do as the butter cools, dip the asparagus in the sauce. The sauce will cool round the asparagus and stick to it. This is a most delicious salad which can be pro- duced at five minutes’ notice, if house- keepers will only have the forethought to have a few tins of asparagus always in the house. ASPIC JELLY.—There are few things more useful in the way of garnishes for cold dishes than aspic jelly, yet the majority of English cooks rarely use it. The fact is that it is a decidedly trou- blesome thing to make, as unless it is as bright as sherry it is useless. It would be a good lesson to plain cooks to occa- sionally look in the shop window of some good French cook in those provi- sion shops devoted to the sale of galan- tine, game pies, fresh truffles, etc. There is a capital model in Princes Street, Soho, where the various dishes displayed in the window are rendered doubly tempting by the garnish of bright aspic jelly, yellow and pink, and deep green parsley. There are many houses where the housekeeper would never hesitate, in the case of preparing a supper-party, in ordering in a bottle* of orange jelly and another of lemon jelly, yet would probably omit to order that most useful of all, one of aspic jelly. What a difference would this one bottle make in the appearance of the various dishes. Housekeepers should bear in mind that aspic jelly can be bought in quart bottles, pint bottles, and half-pint bottles. The way to use aspic jelly depends upon the purpose yoxi require it for. Suppose you want to use it at a minute’s notice. Say you have a cold roast fowl, and, owing to some unex- pected arrival, you wish to make the dish look as nice as possible. Dip a quill pen —the feather part—in a bottle of soy, and glaze the breast and legs with it. Next open a bottle, say half a pint, of aspic jelly; scrape out the jelly with anything—a marrow-spoon, for instance. Then with two silver forks mince it up into little pieces. Pile up a little heap on the fowl—on the breast—and place a few heaps round the base with some cut lemon and nice dark-coloured double parsley. What a difference this dish has in appearance compared to a fowl sent up just as it is ! Suppose, however, that time is no object, and you want to ornament, say, a couple of roast fowls, a tongue, and a piece of galantine. Take the bottle of aspic jelly and place it in warm water, just sufficiently long to enable you to pour out the jelly. Now take two flat plates, and pour the jelly out a quarter of an inch thick, or rather deep. See that the plate stands flat, or else one part of the jelly when it is cold will be thicker than another; Then take a bottle of cochineal, and drop a few drops into one plate, and stir it up till it is the colour you wish—a bright red. Let the jelly set, and you now have two round cakes of jelly a quar- ter of an inch thick, one a bright yellow and the other a bright red. These can be cut into any shape desired, and placed round the fowls and on the tongue and galantine. Alternate transparent bands of yellow and red look very nice placed over the white galantine. It would be impossible, without a coloured diagram, to describe the way in which dishes should be ornamented. It depends on the taste of the housekeeper herself, who should never entrust this branch to a Mai'y Ann of all work. They would14 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL’S never do it. As I have said before, the .best lesson is to look in at a shop win- dow like the one in * Princes Street. There is another set of delicious dishes —fish and meat in aspic jelly. Por this a mould is necessary. We will suppose we have got some cold boiled filleted sole, rolled up, ard which has been dipped in a mixture of oil, pepper, and Tarragon vinegar. First take a flat mould, and pour in about a wineglassful of aspic jelly. Let this get cold, then take the fillets of soles and arrange them so that they stand about an inch apart. Now pour in gently enough aspic to cover the fillets, and when the jelly is nearly set place carefully a little sprig j of bright green parsley between each ; white fillet. When the jelly is set— | which it will soon do if placed in chopped ice and salt—arrange another j layer of fillets, and proceed till the j mould is full. Keep it in the ice till it is set very firm. Have ready a dish, i Plunge the mould for a few seconds in , warm water. Wipe the mould quickly ! with a cloth, and turn it out. Surround the base with some lettuce leaves or the sliced hearts of little French lettuces, cut hard-boiled eggs, filleted anchovies, and four small red crayfish. You can ornament the mould still better if you have a few truffles. Cut a star of truffles, and place the star at the bottom of the mould after you have poured in the first wineglass, and surround the star with a few little sprigs, or rather leaves, of parsley. When the mould turns out, this black star at the top, surrounded by little bright green leaves in the bright aspic, looks very pretty. A star can be made also out of beetroot. This is not an expensive dish ; it only- wants a bottle of Crosse and Blackwell s aspic jelly, a pair of soles, and a little trouble and taste. Yet its appearance when done renders it fit to set before a cardinal on Friday. All sorts of dishes can be made this way. Cold chicken or game can be served up in aspic jelly. When this is the case, if possible orna- ment the whole of the outside of the mould -with neatly-cut slices of red tongue and black truffle. This in the bright yellow jelly has a very fine effect. There is no cheap substitute that I know of for truffle, but the black and red always look well. Red and green look fairly well together. Thin strips of red tongue and pickled French beans ; contrast well together. Pickled walnuts j are black, or nearly so ; but it is only a : makeshift after all, and I don’t think the walnuts go well with aspic jelly I when cut. Ornamenting should never be allowed to interfere with the flavour of any dish. ASSORTED SAUCES (in Wedgwood Vases).—See Wedgwood Vases for Sauces. ARBIERI'S VERMICELLI.—See Vermicelli. BARRIE’S CURRY PASTE. —See Curry Paste. BEANS, FRENCH, PICKLED. — See French Beans. BEANS, FRENCH, PRESERVED.—See Haricot Vert. BEANS,WHITE. —See Haricot Beans. BEEF, ESSENCE OF. —Essence of beef is a very useful concentrated form of soup. It is preserved insmall tins, and has to be mixed with about three or four times its own bulk of water. It is j not a hard jelly when cold, but has the 1 appearance- of a very thick glutinous clear syrfip. Its taste when heated with water resembles that of very good clear mock turtle soup, such as is made by Mons. Burlet, of the Freemasons’ Tavern. I mention this soup, as too often the so-called clear mock turtle sold in ordinary restaurants is wretched stuff, thin and tasteless. Mock turtle i soup, properly so-called, resembles real turtle in flavour, and this essence of beef has a decided flavour of its own that recalls City banquets. I would ask any one to fairly try the following receipt:— Take a small tin of Crosse and Black- well’s essence of meat, then take double the amount of water and let it boil for ten or fifteen minutes with a dessert- spoonful of mixed sweet herbs (see Herbs) and half an onion sliced up. Strain this off and press the strainer to strain out the goodness. Then add a lit- tle soluble cayenne pepper (Indian salt, see Cayenne Pepper), and add it to the contents of the tin of essence of beef. Just before serving add a tablespoonful of sherry, or, still better, madeira. If by chance you had some cold calves’- I head in the house, and could add a fewHO USEKEEPER'S O' UIDE. slices of what is know as the horn part, you would have as good a basin of clear mock turtle as it is possible to get. Another very good way of serving essence of beef is to add it to three or four times its bulk of water, and boil in it a short time two or three heads of garlic and a little bunch of parsley. As soon as the flavour is sufficiently ex- tracted out of the garlic and parsley, say half an hour, strain it off, and add a brimming tablespoonful of macedoines (see Macedoines). You now have a nice bright clear spring soup, enough for four persons. Essence of beef can be used, in fact, to make almost any kind of clear soup, and is particularly useful to make, in a quick, cheap way, without trouble, many of those clear thin soups that are met with at Continental tables d'Mte. Mix the tin of essence of soup with four or five times its quantity of water, boil in it three heads of garlic, and a bunch of celery-seed tied up in a piece of muslin fastened to a string. Also put in a little parsley. Taste, so as to be careful not to overdo the celery. Then thicken with a little arrowroot, and you have a clear thick soup that, thanks to the garlic, will recall Con- tinental living. Boil some sago and add to the clear soup; boil the sago in it till it is perfectly tender, but be sure and boil the sago in some plain water separate first, or it will make your soup cloudy. The same with vermicelli. Get some vermicelli, wash it, and boil it till it is nearly tender in some plain water, then add the vermicelli to the clear soap, and you have some excel- lent vermicelli soup. Italian paste of all kinds, as well as macaroni, can be treated and added exactly in the same way. Essence of beef will also be found to be an excellent substitute for gravy- beef and knuckle of veal in making soup. Suppose you have a beef-bone or mutton-bone left; put it on to stew with a carrot, a turnip, an onion with six cloves stuck in it, some trimmings of celery, and a little parsley. If the car- rot and turnip are young they can be taken out and cut up to be served in the soup. When the bone has simmered, the longer the better, five or six hours, strain it off, then add the contents of one tin of essence of beef, and you have a first-class clear soup. If possible throw a handful of fresh-picked young green peas into the soup while boiling, about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes before you send the .soup to table. Essence of beef will also be found invaluable for making gravy in a hurry. Add twice its bulk of water flavoured with onion or garlic, celery, parsley, etc., and thicken it with a tablespoonful of brown roux (see Roux). Let it boil, or rather simmer, a, little while to throw up the butter in the roux, and then serve. The gravy, if intended for roast fowl or turkey, can have a little mushroom catsup added to it, say a dessert-spoonful. If the gravy is intended for game a teaspoonful of sherry may be added, but not more. Cooks too often spoil gravies by adding too much wine. BEEF - TEA. — Beef-tea, and good, genuine beef-tea too, can now be ob- tained in tins, and I would strongly recommend this form of beef-tea to those who doubt their own ability to manufacture the article from gravy-beef direct. There is probably no form of medicine, if it may be so called, so valu- able in the sick-room, and especially the convalescent sick-room, as beef-tea. Medical men who attend patients of the poorer classes, I fear, sometimes fail to grasp the idea of the helplessness and ignorance of even elementary cooking that too often marks the working man’s wife. The patient is ordered beef-tea, but he gets greasy ditch-water. I will take a higher case. Beef-tea is ordered ; the patient has to take nourishment, but loathes food. The gravy-beef is bought, cut up, and simmered, and after a time strained, and a breakfast-cup full of a liquid called beef-tea is brought up. It is white in colour, with a brown sedi- ment, which, if left to stand, will settle at the bottom. The popular belief is that this sediment contains the good- ness, whereas the contrary is the case. We will suppose that the beef-tea has been really well made, and that when cold it is a nice jelly. The patient takes a few spoonfuls and puts the cup down. It is left by the bedside. Alas ! what too often happens, even in good families, where every precaution is taken'! In an hour or two’s time the patient turns to the discarded cup, and makes another effort to swallow a few spoonfuls now it is cold, for often sick patients can take beef-tea cold when they cannot touch it hot, the very smell of any cook-CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 16 ing being sufficient to set them against it. On turning to the cup, what meets the eye ? The beef-tea has settled and cooled, and on the top four or five large wafers of white fat appear floating. It is a trifle, perhaps, but life is made up of trifles. It is quite enough. The very idea of grease at such a time is horrible, and the poor weak patient turns away once more disgusted. Of course, beef- tea can be made at home from fresh gravy-beef, and the fat properly re- moved, every speck of fat, but how often is it really done? A tin of beef-tea contains the pure jelly only—-no dregs, no fat. One tin in a sick-room is in- valuable. It contains all the nourish- ment. It can be eaten cold as a jelly, and a little can be warmed up at a time as it is wanted. A capital thing in which to warm up preserved beef-tea is a china saucepan inside another one. They are so clean and so handy, and it is impos- sible as a rule to depend upon ordinary saucepans being really properly cleaned. In trying to tempt patients to take beef- tea I would strongly advise you to act as follows :—First—say the patient fancies it cold—get a clean plate, a small one. Take a little out of the tin at a time and put it on a plate—not more than a tablespoonful. Put two or three little sprigs of parsley round it. Don’t let the patient see the tin, or see any quantity. Even in good rude health appearances go a long way. No one would really enjoy the best turtle-soup if he ate it out of a huge cauldron. Pile up a little heap of this nice bright beef-tea, which is a jelly when cold, on a plate, and often when the'patient has eaten and finished what was offered more will be asked for. So, too, in serving the beef-tea hot. Don’t give “ a nice large basinful.” It is easy to come again, and when the appetite is very delicate a thin little china coffee- cupful will tempt where the big basin- ful would have exactly the contrary effect. The tins of beef-tea provided by Crosse and Blackwell contain a nice clear wholesome jelly, free from fat and sediment. One or two tins in the house in case of accidents, especially with persons who live in the country, should always be kept as a wise precaution. With regard to serving toasted bread with beef-tea, take care that the bread is brown and crisp, and not black and i sodden. There is a great art in making toast, the art being common sense. 1 Some bread that is moist inside and a dirty black outside is most unappetising. What is wanted, as I have said, is com- mon sense coupled with a clear fire and a little patience. Beef-tea can, of course, be turned to many other accounts than that of being used for the sick room, or for being eaten quite by itself. Beef-tea is simply the pure juice of good gravy-beef, from which all fat and all scum and sediment have been removed. When a tin happens to be in the house, and essence of beef not handy, these tins of beef-tea can be quickly turned into good soup by the addition of the flavourings recommended to be added to essence of beef—viz., onion, celery, parsley, garlic, etc., and vegetables added afterwards, or vermicelli, maca- roni, sago, Italian paste, etc. When you want to use beef-tea for this pur- pose see the directions given for making soup from essence of beef, only remem- ber that tho tins of beef-tea are not so concentrated as the essence of beef, and that, therefore, if you wish to have the soup really good you must not add any water, but you can boil the vegetables, such as onion, garlic, etc., in the beef- tea itself. Beef-tea flavoured as if for soup will make a first-rate white sauce if mixed with a little boiled cream. The cream must be boiled first separate. It also makes an excellent white sauce if mixed with milk boiled separate—equal quantities. The white sauce should then be thickened with a little white roux. (See Roux, White.) In making white sauce or white soup with either milk or cream it is always an ’improve- ment to boil a bayleaf in the milk or cream. If no bayleaf can be had the “ cork ” of a bottle of essence of almonds can be used, but do not go beyond the “cork.” (See Essence! of Almonds.) When beef-tea is ordered for infants, as it is sometimes, remember that young children cannot take salt, and therefore make the beef-tea sweet with sugar. When this is done the poor little things will often suck it down greedily, whereas without the sugar they will spit it out, and try in their tiny way to push away the spoon or bottle. BENGAL CLUB CHUTNEY. — See Chutney. BERMUDA ARROWROOT.—See Ak- ROWKOOT.HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 17 BLACKBERRY JAM. -Blackberry jam is very useful as a substitute for black- currant jam. This latter has a very strong taste, whereas blackberry jam is far milder. In making open tarts, etc., where there is a mixture of colours, blackberry jam will often be found very convenient owing to its being black. In making open tarts containing-a mix- ture of flavours, it is always advisable to avoid any one flavour that is apt to be too predominant. In baking tarts with the fruit or jam in, it will be found that the black-currant jam affects the flavour of the other jams. For instance, suppose part of the tart contains some delicate jam, such as peach or apricot, the black-currant jam, if the tart has been baked, to a certain extent imparts a slight flavour to these more delicate ones. Blackberry jam has a somewhat dead taste, and is also slightly woody in flavour ; as, however, it has not an overpowering flavour, it is well adapted for use where a black colour without a strong flavour is desired. Blackberry jam mixes very well with apples, and when open tarts are made with bottled apples blackberry jam can be used to mix with the apples, and is used, not only in the way of ornament, but it assists the flavour as well. BLACK CURRANTS, BOTTLED.-See Currants. BLACK-CURRANT JAM.—See Cur- rant Jam. BLACK-CURRANT JELLY.-See Cur- rant Jelly. BLACK-CURRANT SYRUP.—See Cur- rant Syrup. BLOATER PASTE. — Bloater paste forms a nice addition to the breakfast- table when spread on bread-and-butter. , It is somewhat similar to anchovy paste, only far milder. It is very cheap, and can be bought in sixpenny pots. A pot always in the house is very useful, as it enables us to turn out a nice cheap salad at a few minutes’ notice. In England, what are known as German—or, as we are going to introduce the flavour of bloater, to speak more correctly we should say Dutch—salads are far too much neglected. I will take a simple, but I fear a far too common, form of everyday waste. Suppose the dinner has consisted of a piece of boiled beef with carrots and turnips round it, while some potatoes and cauliflower have been handed with it. Now, when the joint goes downstairs what does the cook do with the remains ? She places the beef on a clean dish, and we trust pours off the liquor to help to make soup, unless the beef was too salt; but the fag ends of the carrots, turnips (boiled whole), and one or two cold potatoes are too often absolutely wasted. They may sometimes be put in the stockpot, but this institution is not too common in the small households of middle-class families. ! Let us take a lesson from the land of canals, and make a salad as follows. (In Holland they use raw herrings; bloater paste to my thinking is better, and certainly more wholesome.) Cut up the carrot and turnip into little pieces the same size as those in tins of of macedoines. Pick out all the flower j part of the cold cauliflower, and when ■ quite cold put all these into a salad ! bowl. Next cut up the cold potatoes in ' slices, and spread each slice over with : bloater paste, after which the slices may ! be placed on one another, and cut across j first one way and then another, so that the pieces of potato are no bigger than i the cut carrot and cut turnip. Place these all together in the salad bowl, which, if the flavour is liked, can be first rubbed with a bead of garlic. (As a rule English people would not care for the flavour of bloater and garlic mixed. Abroad it would be liked. Were I to mix the salad for my own eating I should add garlic.) Then add to the salad a teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and, if it can be procured, peel an apple. J Cut it into four, and carefully remove I the core. Chop up the raw apple, and j add it to the salad, which can then bo dressed as follows :—Put a saltspoonful of salt and half a one of black pepper in a tablespoon, and fill it up with salad oil, stir it up with a spoon, and pour it over the salad. Add more oil if neces- sary (this, of course, depends on the quantity of salad). Then mix the salad thoroughly together, so that each piece gets oiled over before any vinegar is added. Then add half a tablespoonful of English vinegar, and mix the salad well together again. This is really a vory nice salad, rather appetising, and can be served with the cold boiled beef. How far better to utilise the remains of the vegetables than to throw them away. A small pot of bloater paste c18 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S will keep good for some time after it is opened. A capital salad can always be made out of bloater paste with some cold potatoes and a tin of macedoines. (See Macedoines.) When lettuces can- not be obtained this is a good substitute. When lettuces are in season there is no harm in mixing some lettuce with the salad. In making these salads all kinds of cold vegetables can be used up in this way. Cold French beans and green peas, or Brussels sprouts and summer cabbage, can be turned to account. When cold cabbage is used don’t use garlic; the flavours do not combine. Also when cabbage is used or any green vegetables put in extra pepper. When bloater paste is opened it should not be shut up in a sideboard with other pro- visions, as it is apt to impart its flavour. BOUILLI.—Bouilli is sold in tins, and consists of boiled beef, with a nice stock in which are carrots, celery, onions, etc., and it is a very convenient form of having a good hot meal in the house, always ready at a few minutes’ notice, all that is necessary being to place the tin in boiling water for about twenty minutes or less, when the tin can be opened and the contents turned out and taken at once, as it requires no further cooking. Bouilli is one of the nume- rous forms of tinned meats which are found so useful in the present day by those who use “bachelor apartments.” There are many who know how plea- sant it is to be able to have a nice hot supper ready at any moment, without giving trouble to servants at an unsea- sonable hour. All that is requisite is a small saucepan similar to those used for boiling eggs, and a gas-jet or a spirit- lamp. Where gas is not laid on, and where there is no fire, these small spirit- lamps will be found very useful and economical. They can be bought at one shilling each, including stand, and enable persons to make then’ tea them- selves, boil their own eggs, and also to warm up a tin of soup or bouilli at any hour. A somewhat quicker method of warming up tins of soup or meat is to open the tin and turn the con- tents into and warm it up in a sauce- pan. By keeping the tin in the boiling water, however, you retain more of the flavour and also avoid making the saucepan dirty, and those who are fated to live in cheap bachelor lodgings will appreciate the gain of this. A tin of bouilli can also be used for mak- ing a quick dish of haricot beef, especi- ally where some cold vegetables nave been left in the shape of carrots, etc., from a joint on the previous day. Take an onion, slice it, and fry it a nice brown colour in a frying-pan in a little fat or butter. Pour off the liquor from the bouilli and add it to the onion, and thicken this with a little brown roux (see Bbown Roux), or a little arrowroot or .plain flour, etc., and, if possible, when one of these two latter thicken- ings have been used, colour with a little browning, or Parisian Essence, or, still better, the West Indian Casaripe. When the gravy is suffi- ciently thick, add the meat and the remainder of the vegetables, taking care first of all to skim off as much fat as possible. Then make the meat hot through in the gravy, and serve. In warming all tinned meats care should be taken to avoid letting the meat boil, as when this is done it is apt to make it hard. This is one reason why tinned meats are best warmed up in the tins, which are placed in a sauce- pan of boiling water, thus forming a sort of lain-marie. Some fried or toasted bread can be placed round the dish. Bouilli served this way forms a nice entric, which can be got ready at a short notice, and is a convenient dish for those occasions known to house- keepers as emergencies. BOUSQUIN’S JULIENNE.—See Vege- tables, Mixed, Dried. BRANDY BITTERS.—Brandy bitters is a very excellent tonic, which can be taken before a meal, as it is productive of appetite. It is sold ready prepared in bottles, and is of the right strength to assist and not impede digestion. Too often persons in mixing bitters, such as angostura or orange, fail to hit upon the happy medium between burn- ing the coats of the stomach on the one hand, and making a nauseous draught on the other. The brandy bitters now sold ready prepared will be found an excellent stomachic. BRANDY CHERRIES.—The most ge- neral form of serving brandy cherries is as a separate dish at dessert, when it will always be found a popular19 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. one. Some of the liquor in which the brandy cherries are preserved (cherry brandy) should always be poured round the cherries in the dish. One curious feature about brandy cherries is that the cherries retain the brandy, or rather the spirit from the brandy, at the expense of the liquor—i.c., the cherry brandy—itself. Consequently care should be taken in giving brandy cherries to children, as too many would be certain to produce headache and nausea. Brandy cherries, in addition to being served as a sweet at dessert, are also used to assist in mak- ing high-class puddings. I will give one instance of a pudding famous in Warwickshire some years ago known as Kendal pudding. Line the bottom of a pie-dish with thin slices of sponge-cake, and on the top of this lay a layer of brandy cherries. Next on the top of the cherries lay another layer of sponge- cake that has been spread over with some rather acid jam—i.e., some sharp- tasting jam like quince. Then on this lay another layer of brandy cherries, and on that a layer of cake spread over with some sweet jam, such as raspberry, then again some cherries, etc., taking care that the sharp and sweet-flavoured jams are in alternate rows. When the dish is filled to the top pour in a rich custard, and when the cake has tho- roughly soaked up the custard, bake the dish in a somewhat slow oven at first till the whole has thoroughly set. This pudding, though somewhat expensive, is exceedingly rich and good. BRANDY, CHERRY. — See Cherry Brandy. BRAWN, OXFORD.—Oxford brawn is now sold in tins, and comes under that most useful list of preserved condiments known as breakfast delicacies. One of the chief objections to the brawn sold fresh is that it is, as a rule, made in too large a quantity. The tins of brawn are small and compact, and can be turned out whole, and surrounded with a small paper frill. This forms an agreeable change to the breakfast or lunch table; and the tinned brawn pos- sesses this great advantage, that till the tin is opened it will keep good for years. In carving brawn it is of great import- ance that it should be cut with a very sharp knife. Brawn is of course made from pig’s head, and, like other forms of cold, and, to a certain extent, pickled pork, is improved by the addition of mustard and vinegar. This is of course purely a matter of taste. Mr. Franca- telli recommends the following sauce, which he has named BRAWN SAUCE, to be used with cold brawn. Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vinegar, three of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, and serve. Probably many persons would prefer less vinegar. This sauce, it will be seen, contains that common principle of appetising sauces, such as chutney, etc.—a mixture of the hot, the acid, and the sweet. A very useful way of using up the remains of brawn is to add it to odds and ends of meats, such as cold fowl, cold ham, mutton, beef, etc., and let it assist in making some rissoles. There are few more economical dishes than rissoles, and when they are required particularly good the addition of a small tin of mushrooms (see Mush- rooms) will always have the desired effect. Another useful purpose to which brawn can be turned to account is to make sandwiches. Brawn makes excellent sandwiches. There is a well- known luncheon-bar in Fleet Street where I have been informed more brawn sandwiches are sold than ham or beef or any other kind of sandwich. In cutting sandwiches from brawn it is important that not only the brawn, but the bread, must be cut thin. Where persons are in the habit of taking sandwiches out for the day for luncheon, brawn, like egg, forms an agreeable change from the eternal beef and mutton. A little mus- tard and pepper can be added to the sandwiches if wished, but as a rule the brawn sold in tins by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell is so well seasoned that it is best left alone. BREAKFAST DELICACIES. — Most housekeepers know the difficulty of pro- viding a variety of dishes for breakfast. Indeed, what would become of us, as a rule, at this meal were it not for the bacon and eggs of which, especially the former, we so rarely tire ? There are few dishes which in this respect can compare with plainly-fried bacon. Still a change is always desirable, as well as an addition to this staple dish, and under the general heading of “ Break-20 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S fast Delicacies ” I would call attention to a number of preserved condiments now sold in tins—such as game pat£s, ham-and-chickcn pat^s, veal-and-ham paf&, pork pates, savoury pat^s, Oxford brawn, etc. A description of the par- ticular properties of each of these real delicacies will be found under their re- spective headings, but it should be borne in mind by all housekeepers that, in addition to these convenient tins—so handy in emei’gencies, being adapted for breakfast just as they are—their re- mains are of considerable assistance to the cook afterwards. Housekeepers know how often the remains of these tins are not turned to account at all. There comes a stage when what is left is too small to be put on the table, and the consequence is that the fag end is either finished at the kitchen eleven o’clock lunch, or, stiil worse, thrown away. The remains of some of these tins, especially the chicken-and-ham, veal-and-ham, and savoury pates, are just what the cook often wants to give a “tone” to such dishes as rissoles, kromeskies, croquettes, etc. Indeed, in making a dish of kromeskies from the remains of cold fowl, ham, and a small tin of mushrooms, it is often well worth whilo opening a tin of these savoury patds on purpose to complete the dish. It is far quicker and cheaper than making an elaborate forcemeat, entail- ing the trouble of rubbing the meats through a wire sieve. Cooks, when in a hurry, would do well to bear this in mind. BREAKFAST TONGUES.—See Tongues. BRETON’S COLOURING.—See Vege- table Colouring. BROTH, MUTTON. — See Mutton Broth. BROWN GRAVY SALT.—See Salt. BROWNING.—Browning is nowsold in bottles, and will be found cheaper and more economical in this form than when made at home, unless it is made in very large quantities. The common fault with cooks in using browning is to add too much, especially in colouring soups. They are too often apt to think that the darker a soup is in colour the stronger and the richer it will be thought. Good judges of cooking, however, know that generally the finest clear soup is of a delicate pale-straw colour. When too much browning is added it is apt to im- part a flavour of its own to the soup, and the perfection of good soup iij that it should taste as much as possible—or rather lose as little as possible—of the flavour of the meat. In colouring thick soups and gravies this is not so im- ortant; still, moderation should always e used. Browning can be used for a variety of purposes. I will mention one, though I do not recommend it for general use. We all know how long a way imagination goes. A former pupil of mine was head cook at a well-known place of public entertainment in the North of England, and on one occasion had to arrange a dinner and tea for a school treat of twelve hundred children at an exceedingly small cost per head. The tea especially was a success— sweet and, to the astonishment of all, strong. Those present in command won- dered how it could have been done for the money. The manager of the build- ing made inquiries, fearing some dread- ful extravagance had been perpetrated. The explanation was simple. The tea had been made by boiling old tea-leaves for some time. A small quantity of fresh tea was thrown into the boiling liquid, and the boiling stopped. Then sufficient blackjack (browning) was added to give it an air of respectability so far as appearance went. The whole was sweetened, and milk added. The re- sult was a great success. Browning can also be used to colour syrup to glaze cakes such as sponge-cakes. When they arc in a nice stick}-, brown state, sprinkle them with chopped angelica and coarse lump-sugar, sifted—too big to go through a fine sieve, and small enough to go through a coarse sieve. Blanched almonds, cut in halves, can also be used to decorate these cakes, which are sometimes soaked in sweet- ened rum. BRUNSWICK SAUSAGE.—See Saus- age. BULL’S HEAD KNIVES. —See Knives. BURNT ONIONS.—See Onions. ABBAGE: RED, PICKLED.— Pickled cabbage is sold in bottles and in jars. _ It is usually eaten plain with cold meat, but can be used for otlier purposes, especially qs an additjon to ornamental dishes, hashes,HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 21 and stews. In using pickled cabbage for hashes, it will often be found that an objection to it is that it is too acid. When the acidity is ob- jected to, soak the pickled cabbage for a short time in boiling water ; then pile up the hash in the centre of the dish, take out the cabbage from the boiling water, which will in itself be sufficient to make the cabbage hot, press the cab- bage in a cloth, pile it on the top of the hash, and serve. It will be often found that in the houses of working men there is a great objection to warmed-up meat of every description. Too often this is owing to the, ignorance of the wife on the subject of elementary cooking. There is one very common dish to be met with—viz., boiled beef, with carrots and turnips. Pickled cabbage forms an excellent medium of warming up this, as follows : Warm the pickled cabbage as we have said in boiling water, cut the boiled beef in slices, warm it up in a little of the water in which it was boiled on the previous day. Then place the cabbage on the top of the beef and serve it with some boiled potatoes. Boiled beef, if wanned up in this manner, and not allowed to boil, mil be found quite as good on the second day as it was on the first. Pickled cabbage is often eaten with cheese, and is a favourite pickle among the poorer classes. CAGLIARI PASTE. — See Italian Paste. CALVES’-FEET JELLY.—Calves’-feet jelly is sold in bottles and in moulds, flavoured with brandy and wine, and also plain. Calves’-feet jelly is strongly recommended to invalids on account of its nourishing properties. When not flavoured with brandy or wine, any flavour can lie added to it as required —brandy, sherry, vanilla, wines of every kind, and liqueurs, such as chartreuse, maraschino, etc. One very nice form of serving calves’-feet jelly for invalids is to add to it an equal quantity of boiling milk, or half the quantity of boiling cream. In this shape it forms a species of sweet bechamel sauce. By adding more milk the jelly can be formed into a beautiful custard. Very often, in cases of dyspepsia, a mixture of beef-tea and milk is recom- mended by medical men. A bottle of calves’-feet jelly, mixed with milk, is one of the nicest forms in which this kind of nourishment can be adminis- tered. Calves’-feet jelly is also very useful, when flavoured with brandy, etc., to ornament sweets. As an in- stance, we will give the case of an arrowroot pudding (see Arrowroot). We -will take a case in which, for ex- ample, the ornament is to be the shape and colour of a cucumber, surrounded with small knobs. Take a small quan- tity of jelly, and, having melted it, fill each of the knobs in the mould with jelly by means of a spoon. Then take some of the jelly, and, with some green vegetable colouring (see Vegetable Colouring), colour suffi- cient jelly a bright green to fill the cucumber mould. Pour the arrowroot on the top, and then, when all is set, plunge the mould for a few seconds into hot water, and turn it out. The effect of the bright tops of jelly round the green cucumber on the top of a white mould is very pretty. Calves’- feet jelly, which is a pale yellow, can also be coloured pink by the addition of a little cochineal or any vegetable colouring. Care should be taken in melting jelly not to make it too hot. Calves’-feet jelly, when bought in bot- tles, will be found to be perfectly bright. If the bottle be made too hot it will cause it to become cloudy. The best method for melting jelly is to place the bottle in tepid water and to have patience to let it dissolve very gradually. By this means considerable time is saved in setting the jelly when it is wanted for that purpose, and all danger of ren- dering it cloudy is avoided. Calves’-feet jelly is often given to invalids to drink warm, but care should always be taken not to heat it beyond the point at which it is required to be drank. In summer time, when fruit is ripe and plentiful, a nice mould of jelly can be formed by placing fruits—such as strawberries, raspberries, currants, etc.—in some jelly, and then turning the mould out when set with the fruit in it. Moulds of jolly, when turned out on to glass dishes, should be ornamented with cut lemon. When turned out on to. silver dishes a piece of paper with an orna- mental edge should be placed at the bottom of the <lish. CAMBRIAN ESSENCE.—Smith's Cam- brian Essence is a sort of concentrated pickle, used for giving' the true West-22 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S phalian or smoked-wood flavour to all kinds of meat, whether hams, tongues, bacon, beef, or fish. It is generally ad- mitted that this wood-smoked flavour is the most essential part of the process of curing hams. Thousands and thousands of sides of bacon are salted in America, but are sent over to Belfast to have that peculiar flavour imparted to them which makes Irish bacon so popular. This essence must be used in addition to the salt. It contributes to preserve articles from decay, and it further has the ad- vantage of preventing their liability to become rusty or to lose in weight, as they do when cured by the ordinary method. The essence may be applied in two ways. If the mode of curing be on the wet principle it should be cau- tiously added according to' taste, or about two tablespoonfuls of pickle for a moderate-sized ham. Tongues require a little more, in proportion to the size. If the dry mode of curing is adopted the essence should be poured on or brushed over the surface of the meat after the salting is finished. Two or three Such applications will be found sufficient to impart the requisite flavour. Hams and tongues and fish, especially those which are intended to be kept some time, should be once or twice care- fully brashed over the surface with this essence before hanging them to dry. This will preserve them from flies, and also preserve the flavour of well-smoked meat. In all cases meat intended to be kept should be hung up to dry for one or two months at least. When this is done it will be found to improve by keeping. CANDIED FRUITS. — See Fruits, Candied. CAPERS.—Capers are an extremely useful pickle, much used in cookery. They differ somewhat both in kind and price. The French nonpareil capers are usually considered to be the best. The most common form in which capers are used is that of caper sauce for boiled mutton, though many persons, with boiled mutton, prefer capers whole. This latter is the most economical form of serving them with meat, as a few can be turned into a small dish with a little of the vinegar, and those not eaten can be put back. Caper sauce is a mixture of chopped capers and melted butter. It will be too often found that when cooks make melted butter they make a very much larger quantity than is required. A common mistake with English cooks is to imagine that melted butter is simply milk thickened with a little butter and flour. Real butter sauce, as it should properly be called, is a far nicer and at the same time a more expensive dish. The proper method of making good butter sauce is to take, say a quarter of a pound of butter, and divide this into six equal parts. Take one of these parts, and mix it with an equal weight of flour. Melt this in the oven, and mix it in thoroughly with the flour. Add to this a quarter of a pint of water, and stir the whole over the fire till it becomes slightly thick. Then gradually add and dissolve in this the remaining five pieces of the buttei. Should the butter sauce show any tendency to curdle, it can be instantly brought back into its proper state by the addition of a small quantity of cold water, or, better still, a small lump of ice. Caper sauce is sim- ply capers chopped fine and added to the butter sauce as we have mentioned. When the butter sauce is made with plenty of butter, water will be found far better than milk ; when the caper sauce is made rich in the way wre have described, half a ladleful, or a little more, is ample for each person. House- keepers would do well to notice the quantity of melted butter usually made by ordinary cooks. They will find as a rule as much is made for four persons as would suffice for twelve. One very use- ful method of using capers is to make— CAPER SAUCE PIQUANTE.— It will be found that in the majority of cookery books the quantity of vine- gar given is very excessive. To make sauce piquante, chop up a couple of shalots, a couple of green gherkins, and a dessert-spoonful of French capers. Place these in a small stewpan, with two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar. Allow' these to simmer gently over the fire till the whole of the vinegar is nearly boiled awray. Then add a quarter of a, pint of good brown gravy, previously thickened. By allowing the vinegar to evaporate in the stew'pan the acidity which too fre- quently accompanies sauce piquante is avoided. One other very useful purpose for which capers can be used is to make—HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. "CAPER” BLACK BUTTER—As in sauce piquante, so too in black butter, it will be often found that this delicious accompaniment to fish is spoiled by being made too acid. To make black butter, therefore, proceed as follows : Take a small quantity of butter—say two ounces—and melt it in a frying-pan till it turns a rich, dark, brown-mahogany colour. Then remove it from the fire and wait a few seconds till the tempera- ture is reduced, so that it is not above that of boiling water, and add to it a dessert-spoonful of chopped capers, half a dessert-spoonful of vinegar in which the capers have been preserved, a des- sert-spoonful of Harvey’ssauce, adessert- spoonful of mushroom catsup, and a little black pepper. This sauce is usually served with skate. On the Continent capers are used to make— CAPER SAUCE FOR FISH.—This is simply done by adding the capers whole, just as they are, to some kind of plain melted butter or white sauce. When capers are used in this form the larger they are the better. CAPERS FOR MAYONNAISE.—One common form in which they are used is to ornament mayonnaise salads. The mayonnaise sauce should be made suffi- ciently thick to enable it to be spread with a knife like butter. Pile up the salad in the centre of the dish in a pyra- mid form, and mask the whole of the upper surface with the thick white sauce. Now take some capers, throw them on to a cloth to drain them from the vinegar, and place them as lightly as possible on the sauce, at distances of about an inch. Should the mayonnaise salad be a lobster one, a little of the coral of the lobster, powdered, can be shaken lightly over the sauce, as well as a little finely-chopped parsley; the small red and green specks on the rich white sauce have a very good orna- mental effect. The base of the salad should be surrounded with hard-boiled eggs, cut in quarters, stoned olives (see Olives), and filleted anchovies (see Anchovies, to Fillet). Capers can also be used for making— "CAPER” TARTAR SAUCE.-Take some ordinary mayonnaise sauce, add to it, say, a quarter of a pint of sauce, a big teaspoonful of ancnovy sauce, a dessert - spoonful of made mustard, rather less than a teaspoonful of chopped ickled onion, a dessert-spoonful of very nely-chopped capers, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little black pepper. This cold sauce is served with grilled salmon, fried eels, etc. CAPERS FOR SAUCES.—Capers are also used in making a large variety of sauces—such as sauce a la gasconnc, which is made by frying French capers and truffles, chopped finely in a little oil. A receipt for this will be found in Francatelli’s “ Modem Cook.” CAPILLAIRE SYRUP. — Capillaire syrup is a scented syrup flavoured with orange flowers. It forms a very agree- able drink on a hot day when mixed with iced soda-water. Owing to its peculiar scented property, a small quan- tity is occasionally used to mix with hot punch, and is supposed to greatly im prove its flavour. CAPTAIN WHITE’S CURRY PASTE. —See Curry Paste. CAPTAIN WHITE’S ORIENTAL PICKLE.—See Oriental Pickles. CARMINE COLOURING.—See Vege- table Colouring. CARNIS EXTRACTUM.—See Extract of Meat. CARRAWAYS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of carraways is a cheap and quick form of adding the flavour of- carraways to all sorts of preparations in which the flavour of carraways is required—such as cakes, puddings, etc. It possesses somewhat stomachic qualities, and where carraway seeds are objected to on the ground of their being difficult of digestion, the essence of carraways will be found a very valuable substitute. CASARIPE.—Casaripe is a species of browning somewhat resembling soy, only not having so pronounced a flavour. It is used for colouring all kinds of soups, gravies, etc. In addition to its being simply a colouring, it possesses consider- able flavouring properties. It has a rich aromatic smell, and tends to impart a gamey flavour to the soups, gravies, etc., to which it may be added. Conse- quently it is very useful for flavouring and colouring all kinds of salmi of game, as well as any kind of game soup, such as hare soup, grouse soup, etc. It2-1 CROSSE' AND BLACKWELL’S can also be added to salmi of pigeon or to stewed pigeons, and as there is some- thing in its flavour slightly suggestive of stock made from turkey-bones, it will be found a useful addition to hash made from turkey. It is prepared from a plant that grows in the Bermudas, and is of a rich golden colour. Too often cooks are apt to colour their gravies, soups, etc., with burnt sugar— or what French cooks know under the name of caramel. When this is used there is always a slight flavour of burnt sugar to be detected in the soup, and in the case of clear soup this flavour is very objectionable. For the purposes we have mentioned casaripe will be found an invaluable substitute, as there is no taste of sugar about it. It cannot, however, like some colourings, be used for sweets in any form. Casaripe should always be used to assist in colouring or flavouring hashed venison, jugged hare, and all kinds of hash made from poultry or game. The addition of a little port wine and red-currant jelly is also an improvement. CATSUP, MUSHROOM.—See Mush- room. CATSUP, WALNUT.—See Walnut. CAULIFLOWER, PICKLED.—Pickled cauliflower is a popular form of pickle, and it will be found in most private households that where jars of mixed pickles are used the cauliflower will generally be selected in preference to the gherkins, which are usually left be- hind and too often wasted. When house- keepers see this to be the case they would do well to obtain a bottle of cauliflower pickled by itself. Pickled cauliflower, of course, is used as pickle, plain, with all kinds of cold meat, etc. It can also be used in ornamenting various kinds of dishes, especially breakfast dishes. For instance, grilled salmon is often served for breakfast with pickles. When this is the case, a pretty dish can be formed as follows : Place the grilled slices of salmon in a circle, and then put some pickled cauliflower with the whiter part outside in the centre. Now take a few red chillies, and, having split them and taken out the pips—which are, as a rule, too hot to eat—place the red chillies across one another over the white cauli- flower. A little rich gravy is sometimes poured round the base of the dish, but in ornamenting the dish care should be taken that none of the gravy is poured on the white cauliflower. Where the flavour of strong acid is not liked the cauliflower can be soaked for a short time in boiling water. By this means it is not only made hot, but some of the vinegar is extracted from it. CAVIARE.—Caviare is made from the roe of the sturgeon. The best caviare comes from Russia. It lias the appear- ance of seeds preserved in a kind of black oil, and in taste is thought by some to resemble oysters. It is one of those things the taste for which may be said to be an acquired one. It is very often served at the commencement of dinner as an appetiser. Cut lemon and cay- enne pepper should be served with it. In many parts of London caviare is now sold in the form of sandwiches, which are made by simply laying thin layers of caviare between twro slices of brown bread-and-butter. Sometimes cayenne and lemon-juice are added to the sand- wiches, when they are labelled, “ Ca- viare sandwiches, devilled.” Owing to its dark colour, caviare makes an agree- able contrast in a dish of appetisers mixed, in which form it is often served at the commencement of dinner. A small heap of black caviare can be sur- rounded with chopped white of egg and filleted anchovies, or with chopped capers, stoned olives, etc. Another very nice form of serving caviare is hot on toast, after dinner, in the place of anchovies on toast. When this is the case the caviare should be first made warm in the oven in a saucer, as the toast is always best when served fresh made. The toast should be first of all slightly buttered, the caviare spread on the top, and a little sprinkle of cayenne pepper and some lemon-juice should be added. The toast should then be cut into inch squares, the whole placed in the oven for about a minute, and served hot. Many persons consider this very superior to anchovies on toast. CAYENNE PEPPER.—There is an old saying that if you wish to have good soup you must lock up the pepper-box. Certainly many cooks fall into tne great fault of putting too much pepper into soups, sauces, and gravies. This will be particularly noticeable with those who have lived in Indian families.25 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. Cayenne pepper, like many other good things, must be used with moderation : and when so used is a most useful flavouring. It will, I think, as a rule, be found a good plan to use a little cayenne pepper in flavouring soups in preference to a large quantity of ordinary pepper. Indeed, the best of all is to use a little of both in modera- tion, as I have said. The ordinary form in which cayenne pepper is made is that of a bright-red powder, which is to a certain extent insoluble. When, there- fore, cayenne pepper has been used for the purpose of flavouring any kind of clear soup, the cook should be careful, in pouring off the soup, to first of all let it settle. A white basin is the best for soup to settle in. Then, when the soup is poured off carefully, the last few spoonfuls will be found to contain a certain species of dregs consisting chiefly of the grains of black pepper and red pepper, which should be re- tained and not added to the soup. There are various kinds of cayenne pepper. One very useful form is that of soluble cayenne, sometimes called Indian salt. In using this soluble cayenne pepper it should be borne in mind that it is salt as well as hot; and when much pepper is used no salt .should be added to the soup except that which is mixed with the pepper. One great advantage in using soluble cayenne pepper is that there are no dregs, and that therefore there is no occasion for the soup in which it is used to be poured off or strained. Cayenne pepper is the active principle of what may be called “ devils ” — such as devilled bones, devilled turkey, devilled sardines, devilled whitebait, etc. In devilling bones—such as legs of turkey or fowl— it is always host to mix cayenne pepper with some French mustard; or should there be none obtainable, some butter. The meat on the bones should be sliced down to the bone in stripes, and the mixture of cayenne pepper, mustard, butter, etc., be inserted in the stripes thus made. By this means the flavour of cayenne and mustard will be tho- roughly got into the meat. Too often, when bones are grilled or devilled, it will be found that the hot devil, which forms such an agreeable part of the dish, is merely superficial, and fre- quently falls off in the plate in the shape of black scales. When, however, | the mustard is well mixed into the meat [ in the way we have said the full flavour is tasted in the meat itself. In order to insert the mixture into the meat, I have found that a blunt knife—such as an ivory paper-knife—is more convenient than one that is sharper. In making devils of all kinds many persons prefer a mixture with the flavour of anchovies combined with that of cayenne ; conse- quently it will often be found advisable j to mix some anchovy butter with some cayenne pepper, using anchovy butter j instead of French mustard (see An- chovy butter). This is, of course, a matter of taste. Cayenne pepper, with \ some cut lemon, should always be served with sardines, pilchards, whitebait, wild duck, and various other dishes. In the 1 case of wild duck, it is very common j for the carver to dip a cut lemon into cayenne pepper and to slice the breast of the wild duck, and then to squeeze I the lemon-juice and cayenne pepper into the cuts thus made. When this is done very great care should be taken in squeezing the lemon that a squirt of the juice does not go into the eye, as I once witnessed, the agony caused thereby being really intense. Cayenne pepper can also be added to all sorts of “ after- | dinner” dishes—such as anchovy on j toast (see Anchovy on Toast) caviare | on toast (see Caviare), devilled sar- dines (see Sardines, Devilled). Cay- j enne pepper is also sold in a liquid form, and can be used to add to gravies, chops, steaks, etc. It is very hot, and should be used with great care. CAYENNE SAUCE (CLARENCE’S).— Cayenne sauce is a very hot sauce, and is a favourite addition with many per- sons, by whom cayenne is liked, to cold meats, chops, steaks, soups, gravies, etc. It is sold in bottles. We would recommend those whose tastes are some- what Indian to give it a trial. CAYENNE VINEGAR.—Cayenne vine- gar is a pure vinegar strongly impreg- nated with the flavour of cayenne. It is particularly adapted for salads of the German description. German salads | can be made from a tin of macedoines. A receipt for German salad will be found under the heading “Bloater I Paste ” (see Bloater Paste). In mix- ing this salad with oil and vinegar it will be found to be a great improvement to add cayenne vinegar instead of26 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S ordinary vinegar. Cayenne vinegar can be used for dressing all kinds of salads, but it is far more suitable as a dressing for German salads. By German salads I intend to convey the idea of all salads made from cooked vegetables. It is not so good for dressing salads mayonnaise, or those made with lettuces. CELERY, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of celery, like essence of bitter almonds, must be used with caution. In using many of these essences there is great difficulty in impressing upon the minds of English cooks—and by English cooks I mean women-coolcs who have had but moderate training—the importance of using a few drops only. A few drops of essence of celery added to any good stock will give the flavour of celery, and when celery cannot be obtained it is of great service, as cooks know well how important an element celery is in flavouring all soujis. If, however, an excessive quantity is put in the whole flavour is destroyed, and the soup is virtually spoiled. In adding essence of celery to soups, I would always advise cooks to drop the essence into a spoon, and not into the soup itself. Even ex- perienced druggists know how difficult it is to give three drops, and three drops only. Should too much be poured into the spoon the error can be at once recti- fied ; but if, through haste or careless- ness, cooks drop essence of celery into the stock itself, a slight shake of the hand may possibly be the cause of the whole of the soup being spoiled. Es- sence of celery can also be used with advantage in flavouring various kinds of white sauces. White sauces are a mixture of good stock and boiled milk or boiled cream. When the milk and cream are used mixed with stock, a little extra essence of celery is not so objectionable. In making celery sauce from fresh celery, I have know many cooks uBe essence of celery in addition to the celery itself. When, however, fresh celery can be obtained, I think it is best to leave well alone and not to use the essence. CELERY, SALT OF.—See Salt. CELERY SEED, IN BOTTLES.—Celery seed is another form of conveying the flavour of celery when celery itself can- not be obtained, or when the price of celery is such a? to make it almost pro- hibitive. The same precaution must be taken in using celery seed as I have already given in using the essence of celery. The flavour from celery seed if exceedingly strong, and far more power- ful than from celery itself. The flavour extracted from fresh garden celery, is used in excess, will rarely spoil the soup, as the flavour is universally liked. Such, however, is not the case with celery seed, and consequently cautious house- keepers should insist on their cooks using celery seed sparingly. Should the cook put in a larger quantity than necessary the flavour of celery seed so predominates that nothing else can be tasted in the soup, while the essence of good cookery is not to destroy but assist the original flavour of the soup. Act, therefore, as follows: Take a small piece of muslin, put a small teaspoonful of the seed in the muslin, and tie it up with a piece of string. Throw the muslin bag into the soup saucepan, and let the string be tied to the handle or hung outside. After the soup has boiled for a few minutes, let the cook take off the lid and taste the soup. Should the flavour of celery seed be now clearly discernible, take out the muslin bag, which can be hung up or put away for use on another occasion. By this means there is no danger of spoiling the whole of the soup, as, should the cook be under the impression that she has put in too much seed at random, it is almost contrary to human nature to expect her to strain the whole lot off on purpose to extract the seeds. CHAMPAGNE JELLY. — Champagne jelly is sold in bottles containing quarts, pints, and half-pints. It is a very deli- cate form of nourishment for invalids. Though the flavour of the champagne is not so strong as some might ex- pect, its name renders it very at- tractive. When the jelly is melted to be poured into the mould, care should be taken to melt it very gradually. The bouquet of champagne is proverbially delicate ; and, should the jelly be really heated, the delicate bouquet will be destroyed. When the jelly is dissolved sufficiently to admit of its being poured into the mould, a small wineglassful of good old liqueur brandy will be found to improve its flavour. Before pouring the jelly into the mould it is sometimes desirable to hold the mould over some27 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. steam. The steam condenses on the cold mould, and thus forms an almost infinitely thin film of water between the mould and the jelly. Wine jellies are very delicate, and consequently great care has to be exercised in turning them out, as, when the mould is plunged into hot water, unless great care is taken they are apt to run, and the sharp form of the mould will then be destroyed. The thin coating which is formed by the condensed steam tends greatly to pre- vent the jelly from sticking. CHARTREUSE, GREEN.—Green char- treuse has for many years been re- garded as the king among liqueurs ; and it says much for the good sense of the present French Government, that when the religious orders were banished from France, that particular order was ex- empted which manufactured green and yellow chartreuse. Green chartreuse is manufactured from herbs and shrubs which grow in the neighbourhood of Grenoble, one of the herbs resembling in flavour that known in this country as penny-royal. Green chartreuse possesses considerable strength, and can be used in making high-class jellies, in addition to its ordinary use as a recherche liqueur to be handed round after dinner. When you make chartreuse jelly, the chief point to be borne in mind is not to lose the flavour of the chartreuse. Of course, when any spirit is heated, the strength evaporates; consequently, in making chartreuse jelly, the jelly must be made first, and the chartreuse must not be added till the very last moment—that is, just when the jelly is on the point of setting. By this means the whole of the flavour of the chartreuse will be retained. In making chartreuse jelly, which is of course an expensive luxury, it is always advisable to have some ice, and the mould in which the jelly is to be made should be placed in some of the ice, which must be chopped up, and mixed with a little salt, which will reduce the temperature to about thirty degrees be- low freezing point. When the mould has been cooled to this extent, take it out and hold it over a little steam for about a second, and replace it in the ice. The mould now contains a thin film of ice. Now pour in the chartreuse jelly, which, as it is already on the point of setting, will very soon get firm owing to the intense cold to which it is exposed. When the jelly is well set, take the mould out of tile ice and place it in a room of moderate temperature for about half an hour; place over it a plate or glass dish, and turn it out. If the pre- cautions we have mentioned have been taken, plunging the mould into hot water will not be necessary. The little film of ice which separated the jelly from the mould will already have melted of its own accord owing to the tempera- ture in which it has been placed. By this means the shape and lines of the mould will be perfectly preserved. CHARTREUSE, YELLOW. — Yellow chartreuse resembles green chartreuse in flavour. It is not, however, so strong, and by many is preferred in con- sequence. Indeed, a deep sip of green chartreuse is very apt to bum the throat. Yellow chartreuse can be used for all the purposes already mentioned in Green Chartreuse for making jellies, etc. Both, however, can be used on great occasions in making high-class trifle. Trifle is generally made from sponge-cakes, macaroons, and ratafias, soaked in sherry and brandy, and spread over with layers of jam. A thick solid custard is then poured on the top, and the whole surmounted with a dome of whipped cream. What may be called high-class trifle is made by soaking sponge-cake, macaroons, ratafias, etc., in different lands of liqueur, such as chartreuse (green and yellow), maras- chino, kirsch, noyeau, etc. This is the receipt given for making trifle as it appears when served on occasions such as high-class public balls. M. Franca- telli recommends the use of liqueurs, and I believe used them during the period in which he had the honour to be chef to Her Majesty the Queen. Of course the use of liqueurs renders trifle very expensive, but it is worth mention- ing, as there may be occasions on which the remains of liqueurs have been left, and housekeepers may be glad of an opportunity of using up the remains of a bottle, and at the same time making a dish worthy the attention of the greatest lovers of good cheer. CHEESE.—See Parmesan, Gruyere, Gorgonzola, etc. CHERRIES, BOTTLED.—Cherries are sold in bottles. The liquor in which they are bottled contains no sugar, butCROSSE AND RLA CKWELL'S 2R should not be wasted, as it contains a considerable amount of cherry flavour. In bottled cherries the cherries them- selves are sufficiently cooked, but the liquor shoidd be poured off and sweet- ened and when cold added to the pie or pudding. Bottled cherries are chiefly used for making ordinary pies and pud- dings, and wall be found very useful when mixed with bottled red currants or raspberries. Should a bottle of cherry syrup be in the house a spoonful of syrup may be added to the juice with very great advantage. Bottled cherries can be used for making open tarts like those sold in France and on the Continent, but for this purpose cherries preserved in syrup are very superior. CHERRIES, BRANDY.—See Brandy Cherries. CHERRIES, MORELLA.— Morelia cher- ries are sold in bottles, find are used for making high-class puddings, sweets, etc., and are much to be preferred to ordi- nary bottled cherries. As an instance, I will gi ve one or two methods in which they may be turned to account. I will mention a receipt given by the late M. Francatelli for brown-bread pudding, or pudding a la Gotha. “Get ready the following ingredients :—Twelve ounces of brown bread-crumbs, six ounces of powdered sugar, six eggs, half a pint of whipped cream, some grated lemon- rind. a little cinnamon-powder, one pound of Morelia cherries, and a little salt—the latter barely a pinch. Mix the bread-crumbs by stirring in the yolks of the eggs and the whipped cream, the lemon, cinnamon, and salt all together in a large basin. Then add the whipped whites of the six eggs, and set this aside. Next butter a plain mould and strew it with brown bread-crumbs. The bread- crumbs should be somewhat dry. Then spread a large spoonful of the prepara- tion on the bottom of the mould, and arrange on it a layer of cherries, with the stones left in. Cover this with some of the bread-crumbs, and place, more Morelia cherries upon it, and so on until themouldisfilled. Thepuddingmustnow be placed on a baking sheet, and placed in the oven, which should be moderately heated, to be baked for about half an hour. When done turn it out of the mould on to a dish. Four a puree of cherry sauce round the base, and serve.” In Saxony it is customary to eat this kind of pud- ding as a cake when cold. In such a case it should be entirely covered with sifted sugar mixed with a fourth part of cinnamon-powder. Morelia cherries can also be used in making Kendal pudding, instead of brandy cherries. For this receipt see Brandy Cherries. CHERRIES, CRYSTALLISED. — Crys- ; tallised cherries are a very nice form of J crystallised fruit, and are always used | with other crystallised fruits in making dishes for dessert. Being small they are j admirably adapted to fill in crevices, j and their pretty bright colour is very j useful in helping to set off the dish, j In arranging crystallised fruits for des- ; sert on the dish, it is always best to j build up the fruit in pyramid form, and j as much as possible to have the green round the base. The green may consist I of preserved greengages, or still better, preserved green almonds. CHERRIES, DRIED.—Dried cherries are perhaps among the most useful of all j fruits for the purpose of ornamenting | sweets. I have already called attention i to the uses to which they may be put in | ornamenting turned apricots (see Apri- ! cots in Syrup), and tinned peaches (see Peaches in Syrup). Being of good co- lour and easily moulded into any shape, i they are largely used, especially on the j Continent, in decorating all kinds of cakes and sweets. They possess a very rich and delicious flavour, and the chief difference between wedding-cake and rich plum oake is, that preserved cherries are used in making the former as a substitute for sultana raisins. They are also used in making cabinet pudding in ornamenting the outside. In making cabinet pudding a plain, round, common pudding basin is really far better than an ornamental mould. First, the shape of the basin allows the pudding to bo turned out without breaking. If the I shape is properly ornamented, and the plain round dome surmounted with green and red stars alternately, it really forms quite as pretty an appearance as a more elaborate shape would do, and some stars can be cut out of citron and preserved cherries. The basin should be first well buttered, and then the stars stuck in at proper intervals in the butter. Sponge-cake, citron, etc., can then be placed in the basin, and the pudding, after being filled up with custard, steamed in the ordinary way. WhenHOUSEKEEPER'S O VIDE. the pudding is turned out the stars "Will of course be on the surface, and it is Sometimes desirable for the cook to have a few spare ones in order to supply the places of any that may have accidentally moved or slipped. Pudding of this kind should always be surrounded by sweet sauce. As I think I have observed in a former place, in making sweet sauce rum is superior for flavouring to any ether kind of spirit. CHERRIES IN SYRUP.—Cherries in syrup are similar to bottled cherries, only the juice in which they are pre- served is a thick syrup instead of plain water. They can be turned out into a glass dish and eaten as they are, and consequently form a very useful sweet to be added to the table quickly in cases of emergency. Cherries in syrup are very suitable for making open tarts like those met with on the Continent. When the syrup is thin, for making these tarts it is desirable to add a little gela- tine or isinglass, so that when cold the juice forms an absolute jelly. For this purpose a very small amount of isinglass will be found sufficient. When round open tarts are made filled with preserved cherries, they should always be placed close together and well covered in their own syrup. The out- side rim of the pastry should be glazed with a little syrup in which some brown colouring matter has been added, such as browning or Parisian essence. This can be brushed lightly over the pastry with a brush ; then, when it is in a sticky state, sprinkle over it a little coarse white sugar and a little finely- chopped angelica. In chopping citron, angelica, lemon-peel, etc., consider- able difficulty will often be found by the cook, as the ingredients are apt to stick on the knife. In chopping angelica, cooks should remember that, just as in chopping suet, a little flour will prevent the suet from sticking, so in chopping lemon-peel, citron, angelica, etc., a little very finely-powdered sugar will have exactly the same effect, and if added in moderate quantities will not affect the colour when they are to be used for ornamental purposes. CHERRY BRANDY.—Cherry brandy is a liqueur too much neglected in the present day. This old-fashioned re- storer after a long walk or very fatiguing work was much more popular in the days of our grandfathers than it is now. It possesses but very little intoxicating power, but is at the same time very re- viving. It will be remembered after Mr. Pickwick’s memorable breakdown in his chaise, that when he and his part}' arrived at the hospitable home of Mr. Wardle at Manor Farm, the very first act of his host, after remarking how tired his guests were, was to bring out the cherry brandy. It is rarely used for cooking purposes, but cherry brandy will make an excellent jelly. One reason why cherry brandy possesses very little intoxicating power is that good cherry brandy is made by preserving cherries in brandy and sugar, and the cherries possess the remarkable faculty of withdrawing the spirit from the brandy and absorbing it into them- selves. Were you to open a bottle of brandy cherries and place the cherries in one dish and the liquor in another, the one which contained the cherries would be found to contain three or four times the amount of alcohol contained in the dish of liquor. CHERRY JAM.—Cherry jam is of a very pretty colour, and, like most other jams, is always best when made in large quantities. It is in this respect that some of our large manufacturers have an advantage over private houses. Home-brewed ale is very pure and genuine, like home-made jam, but, owing to the quantities in which jams are made, it is as difficult for a housewife to compete with a manufacturer of jam as it would be for her to produce a cask of ale that would stand the test of com- petition with that brewed by Bass or Allsopp. Cherry jam can be used for making open tarts, tartlets, etc., and for all purposes for which jams of any kind are required. CHERRY SYRUP.—This makes a deli- cious drink when mixed with iced water, or, better still, iced soda-water. A spoonful of cherry syrup can also be added with advantage to cherry-pies made from bottled cherries. CHICKEN-AND-HAM PATES.-Chicken- and-ham patios are a very popular form of what is known as breakfast delicacies. They are preserved in small tins, and have these great advantages — they can be kept in the house, and remain good till they are wanted, and can be always produced, when required, as aCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 30 spare or additional dish, which is so great a boon to housekeepers on the arrival of one or two unexpected guests. They are somewhat rich, hut of very delicate flavour. There is a slight re- semblance in the flavour of these pates to that well-known delicacy pate dc foie !/ras. These little tins of cnicken-and- ham pates should be carefully cut open, turned out whole, placed on a dish, and surrounded with some nice bright green parsley. It is a delicacy rather than a meal, and, being very rich, is generally taken in small quantities. Good housekeepers will perhaps be glad to know of a good means of using-up the fag-ends and remains of these delicacies. After one or two days, or possibly only one day, it will be found that there is only sufficient left to make it doubtful as to whether it can be put on the table again or not. These remnants of pates are, however, invaluable to really good cooks. Chicken-and-ham patds are really a very rich forcemeat, and with the addition of a little cold fowl, cold ham, cold tongue, or, indeed, the re- mains of almost any kind of cold meat, will very greatly assist the cook in making a nice dish of rissoles or kromeskies. We will suppose that a portion of one of these pates has been left. Chop up the remains of some cold bacon or ham and some cold fowl. Add a pinch or two of thyme, a small quantity of chopped parsley and shalot, pepper and salt. Take care that there is a sufficient quantity of fat to render the whole sufficiently moist when heated. For this purpose it is always desirable for cooks to take great care of the remains of cold boiled bacon or cold fried bacon that may come down left from the breakfast- table. These remains of bacon fat and lean when chopped finely are invaluable in making kromeskies, croquettes, or rissoles, and these enable really good economical cooks to use up the fag-ends of a variety of dishes. When this rich preparation has all been mixed together moisten with some very strong stock, which will be a hard jelly when cold, and let the whole set in a plate—say a soup-plate, an inch or rather less in depth. Cut the preparation wrhen cold into small squares, about an inch every way. Then take a piece of bacon, and with a sharp knife cut off very thin strips, if possible not thicker than a five-pound note. Wrap the squares nicely in this, and press the edges of the bacon together so as to make them adhere to the forcemeat., Lightly flour the whole, and then dip them into some good batter and throw them into some smoking hot lard. The batter will set before the inside slip of forcemeat has dissolved. The heat will quickly cook the bacon, and in a very few minuies the forcemeat itself will be in a semi-liquid state. The batter will soon turn a bright golden-brown colour, and if the fat is properly hot it will not take more than ten or twenty seconds. Now take the kromeskies carefully out of the frying-pan, put them in the oven on a hot cloth to drain for a few minutes, or on blotting paper, and serve them on a dish with some nice bright, crisp fried parsley. When the kromeskie is opened the hollow ball of batter will contain a rich fluid forcemeat, and those who do not understand the mysteries of the kitchen will wonder how it was possible to get the hot rich fluid into the batter ball. Rissoles can be made from the remains of any kind of cold meat, some tinned mushrooms being always a very great improvement. The remains of any one of these pates, known under the name of breakfast delicacies, will always form a most valuable addition. One other form of using up the remains of chicken-and-ham pates is to make them into sandwiches. The remains of the pate can be mashed up with a little butter so as to make it sufficiently moist to spread. It can then be spread very thin on the slices of bread (no butter being used), as for ordinary sandwiches. Then cut the sandwich into triangles. For supper parties, where sandwiches form a staple dish, chicken-and-ham pates will be found extremely useful, and will save the cook an immense amount of trouble. CHICKEN-AND-HAM, POTTED. — Potted chicken-and-ham is somewhat similar in flavour to chicken-and-ham pates, and can be used for almost every kind of purpose for which chicken-and- ham pat6s are used. It is not quite equal to the pates in flavour, and its consistency is not quite so thick. Like chicken-and- ham pat (is, it can be used by cooks to assist in making rissoles, kromeskies, and sandwiches, as before stated. (See Chicken-and-Ham Pates.) As potted chicken-and-ham can be bought in six-31 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. penny pots, it forms a very cheap as 1 well as valuable addition to the break- [ fast table. CHICKEN-AND-HAM SAUSAGE.—See J Sausage. CHICKEN, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of chicken is a concentrated form of [ chicken stock, and is sold in tins. When used as chicken broth or chicken soup, it requires to be added to two or three tunes its own amount of water. It is an extremely useful preparation for cooks to have in the house, as it enables them to prepare. some good bechamel sauce at, comparatively speaking, a very few minutes’ notice. In making bechamel sauce cooks should always bear in mind that the great secret is that the milk or cream, whichever is used, must be boiled separate. Most persons will know the difference in the taste of good coffee to which cold milk has been added or boiling milk. Just so in sauce ; unless the milk is made to boil, and the same with the cream, the sauce will be spoiled. To make bechamel sauce from essence of chicken proceed as fol- lows :—Take about three times as much as there is ' essence of chicken, and place this in a small saucepan — if enamelled all the better—with a couple of bay-leaves. Let the milk boil up, being careful not to let it boil over. If an enamelled saucepan is used the enamel retains the heat, and the milk will often boil over even after the sauce- pan has been removed from the fire. It is a wise precaution to have ready a spoonful of cold milk, which can be thrown into the saucepan to pre- vent such a catastrophe. Then add to the boiling milk the essence of chicken. This essence can be assisted in flavour by rubbing the bottom of the saucepan in which it is warmed up with a large slice of onion or a bead of garlic, though as a rule garlic is not a desirable flavour in conjunction with milk or cream, unless used with very great caution. A slice of raw ham boiled in the white sauce greatly improves the flavour. Pepper and salt can be added to taste, but in all white sauces, soups, etc., white pepper is to be preferred to black. This sauce can bo thickened with white roux—(see Roux, White)— or with cornflour, arrowroot, etc., and it can be used to mask over boiled turkey, boiled fowl, etc. Should it be required to ornament cold turkey, cold boiled fowls, etc., it is not a good plan to thicken it with roux, but gelatine should be added in sufficient quantities to ensure the sauce forming a jelly when cold. White sauce should be used for this purpose when it is just on the point of setting, and if the birds themselves are quite cold, the mere contact with the cold flesh will be sufficient to entirely set the sauce. The cook’s own good taste will in all probability be sufficient to ornament these cold birds when they are covered with the white sauce. I would suggest thin strips of green gherkin, black truffle, and red tongue, besides sprinkling the surface with coarsely- chopped parsley. A very pretty way of ornamenting cold boiled chickens which have been masked over with bechamel sauce made from essence of chicken is to place a tongue between two boiled chickens. The tongue should be glazed a rich dark-brown mahogany colour, and should be ornamented with what cooks know as white piping, or, in other words, clarified butter dropped from a funnel so as to form some fanciful de- sign. This contrasts well with the mahogany background. On the other hand, on the white background of bechamel sauce a dark colour must be used, such as black truffle, red tongue, etc. The base can be ornamented with green parsley, plovers’ eggs, and red crayfish, according to the taste and purse of the giver of the feast. Essence of chicken is used in the preparation of a variety of sauces. Pascaline is one of these, which Erancatelli advises should be made as follows Chop a handful of mushrooms very fine, and throw them into a small stewpan with a piece of butter. Stir them for two or three minutes. Add a glass of French white wine, and after allowing this to simmer for a little while add a small ladleful of white sauce and a little essence of chicken. Then take it off the stove, mix in a leason of three yolks of eggs, with a small bit of butter, and set it over the fire. Then pour into a bcLin-incLVic for use. Just before using the sauce add to it a tablespoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. Essence of chicken is always recommended by M. Erancatelli to be used in the preparation of sauce supreme and Parisian sauce, receipts for which.BLACKWELL'S 32 • CROSSE AND will be found in his book, “ Francatelli’s Modern Cook.” CHICKEN SOUP. —Chicken soup is sold in tins, and can be served quickly by simply placing the tin in a small saucepan of boiling water, which should be kept boiling for twenty minutes, when the tin can be opened and the soup poured into a basin and served. This is a convenient method of obtain- ing a hot supper for those who are doomed to live in bachelor apartments, as the soup can be easily warmed up over a spirit lamp or gas jet. Chicken soup in tins can also be turned into white soup with the addition of a small amount *of boiling milk and a little white roux. Chicken Soup is also used for making that popular Scotch soup known as “ Cocky-Leeky.” The broth, or soup, should be poured off, and a few leeks, after they have been very care- fully washed, should be sliced up and boiled in the broth till they are tender. The fowl, which is already sufficiently cooked, should now be added, and the bones removed, and it should not be allowed to remain on the fire with the meat in it any longer than is sufficient to make the meat hot through. CHILI VINEGAR.—Chili vinegar is vinegar flavoured with ehilies, and in some respects resembling cayenne vine- gar. It is often used in mixing salads, and is particularly adapted for German salads. Chili vinegar is also used for making a variety of sauces, such as ravigote sauce, which is made by placing two table-spoonfuls of chili vinegar, two of taragon vinegar, and two of Harvey’s sauce in a stew-pan, and allowing the whole to boil away till it is reduced to rather less than half the original quantity. Then a good-sized ladleful of white bechamel sauce is added, and a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley. Ravigote sauce is sometimes made by adding butter sauce instead of bechamel, and a teaspoonful of chopped taragon instead of chopped parsley. Another nice sauce which can be made with the assistance of chili vinegar is cold poivrade sauce. This is made as follows : Put a good spoonful of brown sauce into a round-bottomed basin ; add to it four tablespoonfuls of salad oil and one of chili vinegar, a little taragon vinegar, and pepper and salt. Work all ■well together with a whisk, then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a j little shalot. This sauce is recom- mended, among other things, for brawn, but when used for brawn a little sugar should be added. CHLLIES, DRIED.—Dried ehilies are used for a variety of purposes, and generally for making home-made chili vinegar. A number of dried ehilies are put into a bottle with a little vinegar and allowed to soak. This flavours the vinegar. In addition to this dried ehilies are often used for ornamenting purposes. CHILIES, LONG RED, PICKLED.— Pickled ehilies are a great assistance to the cook for ornamental purposes. They are also often added to curries when they are liked very hot. The red skin of pickled ehilies has a very bright colour, and is exceedingly useful for a variety of purposes, especially for orna- menting fish. We will take a common case of filleted sole, boiled. We wall suppose the sole to be filleted, and that the cook has put on the bones to stew for some time, with a slice of onion and a little parsley. This must then be thickened with a little white roux. The curled-up fillets of sole, after being boiled, are placed upright on a silver dish, and the thick white sauce poured over them. Next take a green pickled gherkin, and two or three red ehilies. Slice the gherkin into slices about the size of a sixpence, split open the ehilies, and cut the skin of them into round pieces the same size. On the top of the filleted sole place alternate slices of green gherkin and a piece of the red skin of the chili. A little of the skin of the chili can also be chopped fine with a little parsley. These can be shaken lightly over the sauce. The addition of the green gherkin and red chili is a wonderful improvement to the appearance of the dish, the red, green, and white contrasting well, and the whole has a most inviting appearance. CHINA GINGER, PRESERVED.—Seo Ginger. CHINA SOY.—See Soy. CHOLLET’S JULIENNE.—See Vege- tables, Mixed, Dried. CHOW - CHOW, PICKLED. — Chow- chow is a hot pickle very much resem- bling Piccalilli both in appearance andHOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. 33 taste. It is, however, somewhat hotter than Piccalilli, and though not much used in this country, is very largely sold in America. Chow-chow can be eaten jus an ordinary pickle, with cold meat. It is also very nice when served as a sauce with grilled salmon. Take a large spoonful of chow-chow, cut up the pickle rather smaller than it is m the bottle, take also a little of the liquor and mix it with about twice its quantity of good brown gravy. Make the whole hot, and serve it with grilled salmon. The same sauce can also be served with mutton chops, cutlets, pork chops, etc. It is best to slightly thicken the sauce with a little arrowroot or cornflour. CHUTNEYS.—Chutney is one of the most popular forms of pickle, if it may be so called, that is eaten with cold meat. It is an Indian pickle, based on the fundamental theory of the mixture of hot, acid, and sweet forming an agreeable compound. The principal in- gredients representing heat are, of course, chilies, cayenne, and ginger. The sweet is generally represented by mango, apple, raisins, etc., and the acid by vinegar. The best chutney comes from India,, and the receipts for making it are almost innumerable. Like Indian curry, chutney varies according to the district in which it is made. There is Madras chutney, the Bengal Club chutney, Lucknow chutney, and Tirhoot chutney. Another chutney is known under the name of Indian mango chutney. Chut- neys also are known by the name of the originator of the receipt. There is Cooke’s chutney, Colonel Skinner’s chutney, etc. All these chutneys are to be obtained in this country in bottles, and it is always desirable to purchase them of some well-known firm, as there is an enormous amount of adulteration practised. A great deal of the chutney sold in this country as Indian chutney is really made in England of ginger, apples, sultana raisins, sugar, cayenne, etc. One very nice purpose to which genuine chutney can be turned is to improve the flavour of curry made from curry powder and curry paste. The chief difference between English curry and real Indian curry is that the latter is made from curry paste, which is pre- pared every day from the fresh spices themselves. Those who have been for- tunate enough to travel on those magni- ficent steamers of the Peninsular and Oriental Company will know that each ship is supplied with a native curry cook, who will be seen early each morn- ing mixing the paste on a stone. The heating power of curry is dependent on the amount of chili paste added to the curry, and in England it will sometimes be found advisable to add chilies whole. A full description of the way to make curry will be found under the headings of Curry Paste and Curry Powder. The addition to the curry of a small amount of chutney tends very greatly to make the curry resemble the genuine Indian article, which so manyoldlndians maintain is not to be obtained in this country. Another use to which chutney may be turned is to assist in flavouring mulligatawny soup. In this case the chutney must- be mixed with the mulli- gatawny paste, fried onion, etc., and the whole of it must be nibbed with the rest of the ingredients through a wire sieve. Care, however, should be taken in adding chutney to mulligatawny lest the soup be made too acid or too sweet. It is therefore best to use a chutney for this purpose which does not contain too much mango. Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell have been for many years justly celebrated for their chutneys, which they obtain from India direct, and of the chutneys which they supply I can particularly recommend Colonel Skinner’s chutney, Tirhoot chutney, and Indian mango chutney. Chutney is generally supposed to be an accom- paniment for cold meat only. Still, in India and on board the Oriental Com- pany’s steamships chutney is a standing dish, and is by many eaten with a variety of dishes, not merely cold, but hot. Persons in this country who are fond of what is known as a relish to their food will do well to try some real Indian chutney, not merely with cold meats, but with chops, steaks, and hot meats. This will be found quite equal to the majority of sauces sold for that purpose. Chutney can also be added to hash, and can be served with all lands of grilled fish. CINNAMON, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of cinnamon, like all other essences, must be used in great moderation. It is used to impart flavour to various kinds of puddings, cakes, custards, and jellies, and will be found a great im- D I34 CROSSE AND BLA CKlliELL'S provement to that well-known invalid jelly, port-wine jelly. Three drops of essence of cinnajnon is more than suffi- cient to flavour half a pint of any liquid to which it is added. CINNAMON, GROUND.—Ground cin- namon is a most convenient form for the majority of purposes of applying this valuable spice. Ground cinnamon is used in cooking to flavour puddings, cakes, jellies, etc. The receipts for making cinnamon cakes, puddings, creams, cinnamon sauce, cinnamon ice, etc., will be found in “Cassell’s Dic- tionary of Cookery.” The flavour of cinnamon is the best for mulled claret, but when cinnamon is used for this pur- pose it is best to have it whole, and not powdered. CITRON RINGS, CANDIED.—Citron, orange, and lemon peel are sold in rings, candied, and will be found very nice as a garnish to be placed round the base of cakes, added to a few coloured crystal- lised fruits. CLOVES, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of cloves is a convenient form of impart- ing the flavour of cloves to puddings, etc. Like all other essences it must be used in moderation, three or four drops being amply, sufficient to flavour half a pint of fluid. CLOVES, GROUND.—The flavour of cloves is very valuable for a variety of cooking purposes. In making stock from fresh beef and veal it is always advisable to stick half a dozen or more cloves into an onion. Cloves are also added to apple pie, apple sauce, etc. Ground cloves form one of the chief in- gredients of that valuable mixture known as aromatic flavouring herbs. Aromatic flavouring herbs can be made in large quantities, and kept for use in stoppered bottles. A small bottleful of aromatic flavouring herbs will keep for years, and, as a little goes a long way, cooks will do well to always have some by them. Aromatic flavouring herbs possess the power of imparting a gamey flavour to various meats, or perhaps it would be better to say they bring out and assist the gamey flavour. For instance, in making a lark pudding the addition of sufficient aromatic flavouring herbs to cover a threepenny-piece makes a wonderful difference in the flavour of the pudding. So, too, in making liver forcemeat, the addition of aromatic flavouring herbs causes the forcemeat to resemble game. Aromatic flavour- ing herbs are made as follows:—Take two ounces of cloves, two ounces of white peppercorns, one ounce of mar- joram, one ounce of sweet basil, one ounce of thyme, one ounce of mace, one ounce of nutmeg, and half an ounce of dry powdered bay-leaves. See that all these herbs and spices are tho- roughly dry. Pound them well in a mortar, sift them through a fine sieve, and put them by in a glass stoppered bottle for use. f orcemeat flavoured with these herbs is always added to all kinds of rich game pies, such as York- shire pie, etc. A very good imitation Yorkshire pie can be made from rabbit, the whole of the gamey flavour imparted to the pie being due to this mixture of herbs. Take say two rabbits, boil them, remove the meat from the bones, and put on the bones with a few of the ordinary additions to common stock to stew down to make a rich half glaze. Next take half a pound of liver and half a pound of fat ham. Cut these up and place them in a fryingpan with two or three beads of garlic. Add also a small tin of mushrooms. Fry the liver with the fat ham thoroughly. When finished nib the whole mixture through a wire sieve. Next add a teaspoonful of the aromatic flavouring herbs we have mentioned and some cayenne pepper. If you now taste the forcemeat thus made it conveys the idea of the inside part of the back of grouse that has been well kept. Great care, however, must be taken in mixing, so that the aromatic flavouring herbs are well mixed up with the forcemeat. A very small quantity indeed of these herbs can be added to meat pies and meat puddings of all descriptions, but they possess such a strong flavour that when used for meat that is not game they must be used in great moderation, as their tendency is to overpower all other flavour. COCHINEAL. — Cochineal is a red colouring matter, and is used in cook- ing for a variety of purposes in which pink and red colours are desired. T will give a few instances of the uses to which cochineal can be applied which may not be generally known. In ornamenting35 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. boiled fish we all know what a pretty addition a little red lobster coral is, when sprinkled over the surface with chopped parsley, and the whole sur- rounded by cut lemon and small fried fish, such as smelts. It will, however, often be found, especially in the country, that lobster coral cannot be obtained. When this is the case the cook can always make an imitation lobster coral as fol- lows :—Take a piece of very stale bread and crumble it till you get a few bread- crumbs about the size of the coral of the lobster. Take a plate or saucer and drop into it a few drops of cochineal. Then add the bread-crumbs, which will turn a bright red owing to the cochineal, and they can be used to decorate the dish just as if it had been lobster coral. The appearance of these coloured crumbs is almost identical with that of coral, and, indeed, very few persons would be able to tell the difference when the dish is served. Under the heading of Anchovy Sauce I have already given a receipt for making devilled eggs. The pieces of white cut off each end of the hard-boiled egg in order to make it stand can be chopped up finely, and these little white pieces can be placed in a saucer, like the bread-crumbs, and shaken in the cochineal, when they will turn a bright pink or red according to the quantity of cochineal used. They can be sprinkled over the devilled eggs or used in other ways to ornament them. The expense of ornamenting the dish, owing to the very small quantity of cochineal employed, is almost nil, and the amount of trouble is very little. What a difference, however, there is in the appearance of a dish so ornamented with these specks and that of one sent up plain. Cochineal is also used for co- louring various kinds of sweets. When pink sugar is shaken over dishes, such as trifle, or any dish sin-mounted with whipped cream, the sugar should be prepared as follows :—Get two sieves, one fine, the other coarse. First of all sift the sugar in the fine sieve, and then in the coarse. This will give you pieces of sugar of a uniform size, not too coarse and not too fine. This sugar can now be shaken over a plate in which a few drops of cochineal have been placed, which will have the effect of turning the sugar pink or rod, according to the amount of cochineal used. Should the sugar be required dark more cochi- neal must be added. The sugar should be allowed to dry when it is used for ornamenting whipped cream, and should never be added until the very last moment, as it has a tendency to sink into the cream, and to destroy its frothy appearance. Another very pretty addi- tion to whipped cream is made by sprinkling over it at the last moment a few of those sweetmeats known to chil- dren as hundreds and thousands. An imitation pink noyeau can be made with essence of cochineal. Colour a couple of tablespoonfuls of brandy pink, and add to this three or four drops of essence of almonds. This can be set on fire and poured over a sweet omelet. It resembles pink noyeau both in taste and colour. Cochineal is useful for colour- ing various kinds of sweet sauces. One of the simplest and cheapest of sweet sauces for puddings is that made from arrowroot. Take sufficient arrowroot to thicken half a pint of water, which has been previously well sweetened with sugar. Before adding the arrowroot colour the water a bright pink with cochineal. When the sauce is suffi- ciently thick, but not so thick that it cannot be poured over the pudding, add to it two or three tablespoonfuls of rum. This sauce can also be flavoured with essence of cloves, essence of cinna- mon, etc. But when rum is used by far the best flavour is obtained by rub- bing the outside of a lemon on two or three lumps of sugar, which imparts a lemon-bitter flavour, which in conjunc- tion with the rum is very nice. In making all kinds of sweet sauce it will as a rule be found that rum is far superior to any other kind of spirit, and in making brandy sauce for plum pud- ding, though, of course, a certain amount of brandy must be used, I would recommend the addition of a little ram, which gives a richness of flavour which cannot otherwise be obtained, except it be by the addition of an extravagant and excessive quantity of brandy. Cochineal is also used in colouring various kinds of puddings, such as cornflour pudding, arrowroot pudding, etc. When used for these purposes it should always be added before the pud- ding is thickened, otherwise the pudding will be of unequal colour, it being im- possible to mix it thoroughly after it is once made. When rhubarb is used for making rhubarb pie or stewed rhubarb36 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S it will often be found that the rhubarb is pale in colour. Fresh spring rhubarb is always a bright red, and when so it has a more inviting appearance. When rhubarb does not possess this colour a few drops of cochineal will have the effect of causing it to look like early spring rhubarb. A few drops of cochi- neal can also be used with bottled rhubarb, should the colour not be alto- gether that which could be desired. Cochineal is used for colouring jelly. Two apparently different moulds of jelly can be obtained from one bottle by colouring half the bottle a bright pink with cochineal, and adding some addi- tional flavouring, s.uch as vanilla or essence of almonds. The sugar used for ornamenting cakes, when pink, is made by adding a little cochineal to some white of egg and powdered sugar, and mixing it to a thick paste. This can then be dropped on the cake through a small piece of paper done up in the shape of a funnel. The pink icing can then be allowed to fall as desired. In ornamenting hams with clarified butter sometimes part of the butter is coloured pink with cochineal, and it can be used as ordinary piping. Cochi- neal is also used by cooks to tint the edges of flowers cut from turnips. When the white flower is cut from turnip and the edges tinted with cochineal it causes it to resemble very closely a fresh blown camellia. Sometimes when beetroot cannot be obtained slices of turnip or potato raw are coloured red with cochi- neal and substituted. As a rule, how- ever, nothing should be used for oma mental purposes which is not intended to be eaten. Some coolcs use cochineal to improve the colour of lobster sauce and shrimp sauce. This, however, is wrong. The shade of colour produced by cochineal is entirely different to that of lobster butter. As a rule it will be found that cochineal for colouring pur- poses is only adapted for sweets. Vegetable colouring is sold which will assist the colour of lobster and shrimp sauce, but cochineal is not adapted for that purpose. COCKS’-COMBS, — Cocks’-combs are prepared in bottles. When cut from the head of the cock they are, of course, a deep red colour, but they are after- wards blanched, and when bottled are of a pure white colour. They are universally esteemed as a great deli- cacy, and are used for making financierc ragout. They are also extremely valu- able to good cooks for garnishing pur- poses. We will take the simple case of a boiled capon. When it has been covered with a rich thick cream becha- mel sauce, the base of the dish can be ornamented as follows :—Take some cocks’-combs and mask them with b4chamel sauce. Have ready some slices of red tongue cut by means of a stamp or by hand exactly in the same shape as the cocks’-combs. Place the cocks’-combs and red tongue alter- nately round the dish, and place some black spots of truffle on each pro- jection. A few red specks of tongue, green parsley, and black truffle can be lightly shaken over the breast of the capon. A cut flower can also be stuck in the end of the breast. In ornament- ing dishes it will always be found that. red, black, and green on a pure white surface have a very pretty effect. COCKS’ KIDNEYS.—See Rognons DE Coq. COCK’S READING SAUCE. — S(?e Reading Sauce. COFFEE, ESSENCE OF.—In no coun- try, perhaps, is essence of coffee better ap- preciated than in England, where the art of making coffee direct seems to be un- known. One great advantage of essence of coffee is that a cup of clear bright coffee can always be obtained at a few minutes’ notice. It is also very usdful for making coffee for invalids, as boiling milk can be substituted instead of boil- ing water, and by this means an admir- able cup of coffee is obtained, and at the same time a great deal of nourish- ment can be given. Whenever milk is used for making coffee the milk should always be boiled separately. After it has boiled up it should be taken off the fire, and the essence of coffee added. In boiling milk I would give cooks a hint as follows :—Very often in boiling milk an enamelled saucepan is used. An enamelled saucepan, it is well known, retains the heat. Cooks will often take a saucepan off the fire when the milk boils and pour out the milk immediately, and then set the saucepan down, the result being this : The dregs of the milk which are in the bottom of the saucepan—which retains its heatHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 37 —will burn, and sometimes the cook j will have to expend half an hour in scrubbing out the saucepan with silver sand or ashes. When the milk boils take the saucepan off the fire and let it stand half a minute or so. By taking this precaution the bottom of the sauce- pan is sufficiently cooled not to burn the milk, and the saucepan then simply requires rinsing with hot water for half a minute, and it will be as clean as ever. Essence of coffee is also well adapted for making coffee ice—that well-known and delicious ice which is said to be a favourite with Her Majesty the Queen. In making good coffee ice, cream is an essential. Essence of coffee is also used for making iced souffle au cafe. This is made as follows:—One pint of clarified syrup, the yolks of twelve eggs, two whole eggs, and a large wineglassful of essence of coffee. Mix all the ingredients in a large earthen basin. Then pour the prepa- ration into an egg-bowl that has been previously warmed with hot water and willed dry Whisk the souffle briskly, the egg-bowl being placed on a stove containing hot ashes until it resembles a well-prepared firm sponge-cake batter. Next fill a souffle dish lining with the whisked preparation to an inch or two above the rim, a band of stout paper having been secured round the case with a pin or string to prevent the pre- paration from flowing over. The souffle must now be placed in a circular tin box with a tight-fitting lid, and the box immersed in pounded ice mixed with salt and half a pound of saltpetre mixed, a wet cloth being placed over the top. It should be allowed to remain thus in ice for about three hours before it is served. Previously to sending to table the band of paper must be removed, and some sifted macaroni powder or grated chocolate shook over the surface in order to give it the appearance of a baked souffle. This receipt is given by M. Erancatelli. COLONEL SKINNER’S CHUTNEY.— See Chutney. , COLONEL SKINNER’S MANGO RELISH. —See Mango. COLOURING.—See Vegetable Co- louring. COMPOTES OF FRUITS IN JELLY.— See Fruits. CONDENSED MILK.—See Milk. CORDIAL, AROMATIC—See Aro- matic. CRANBERRIES, BOTTLED.—Bottled cranberries make an excellent fruit tart, and are particularly useful when ordi- nary fruit is out of season. Cranberry tart is always best served cold. A considerable amount of sugar should always be added to the Cranberries in the pie before it is baked, and moist sugar handed round with it, as the fruit is decidedly acid. CREMES, CHOCOLATE.—See Choco- late Cremes. CRESSY SOUP.—Cressy soup is sold in tins, and it is really puree of carrot. Like all tinned soups, it has the great advantage of being always ready, as it simply requires warming up and serv- ing. The tinned cressy soup is usually very thick and will well bear the addi- tion of a little water or stock. In warming up cressy soup it will be found that a slice of raw ham boiled in it will greatly improve its flavour. CRYSTALLISED FRUITS, VARIOUS.— Nearly every kind of fruit is now sold in a crystallised form, and the following kinds can be obtained—namely, crystallised apricots, crystallised citron, crystallised lemons, crystallised cherries, crystallised chinois, or small oranges (gold and green), crystallised figs, crystallised ginger, crystallised pears (white and rose colour), crystallised greengages, crystallised apples, raspberries, straw- berries, etc., etc. Crystallised fruits make a very pretty and popular dish for dessert. They can also be utilised for making high-class cabinet puddings. In making cabinet pudding from crys- tallised fruit care should be taken to arrange the colours, such as apricots, reengages, and cherries, alternately. The mould should be first spread with butter, and then the fruits stuck in the butter after they have been cut into some neat shapes, such as stars. The basin can then be partially filled with macaroons and sponge-cakes, which should be soaked in a small quantity of different kinds of liqueur. The basin should then be filled up with rich custard, and the whole put in a saucepan and steamed for several hours. In making cabinet puddings cooks should alwaysCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S S3 make allowance for the pudding swell- ing in the process of steaming. The basin should therefore not be quite full. When liqueur is used for soaking the sponge-cake and macaroons the same liqueur should be used to flavour the sweet sauce to pour over the pudding after it is turned out of the mould. CRYSTALLISED GINGER.—See Gin- ger. CUCUMBER MANGOES PICKLED.— See Mangoes. CURACOA, ORANGE.—Orange curacoa is a liqueur which can be drank either before or after dinner, as it is one of the few liqueurs that may be said to pos- sess appetising properties. This is, of course, owing to the strong flavour of orange-peel. Curagoa is often drank with coffee, and is sometimes used to flavour claret-cup. However, in flavouring claret-cup I think there is no liqueur to compare with maraschino if it is good, and next to maraschino noyeau. When neither of these liqueurs is obtainable a small glass of curacoa is an undoubted improvement. Curagoa is also used for making Italian cream. For making Italian cream Francatelli recommends as follows :—Put eight yolks of eggs into a stewpan with four ounces of ratafias, eight ounces of sugar, the grated rind of an orange, a small stick of cinnamon, a wineglassful of curagoa, and a pint of cream. Stir this over a slow fire in order to set the yolks of eggs in it, and then send it through a tammy into a basin. Add thereto half a pint of whipped cream and one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass, and after having well mixed the whole together, pour it into a mould ready imbedded in rough ice to receive it. CURRANT JAM, BLACK. — Black- currant jam is always popular with children. It is used for all purposes to which most jams can be applied, and is recommended to be taken in cases of sore throat. Various nice puddings can be made from black-currant jam, and among them may be mentioned that known as “ roly-poly.” CURRANT JAM, RED.—Red-currant jam can be used for all sorts of pur- poses, such as making open jam tarts, tartlets, “ roly-poly ” pudding, etc. (See -Jams.) CURRANT JELLY, BLACK.—Black- currant jelly is used in cooking for the same purposes for which rea-currant jelly is employed. It is a question of taste which is the best. Many persons prefer black-currant jelly on the ground of its having a more pronounced flavour. Black-currant jelly sauce for venison is made as follows Take a stick of cinna- mon and a dozen cloves and put them to simmer in a little water with one or two ounces of sugar. Peel a lemon, which should be peeled very thin, so that none of the white portion or pulp is used. Add to this a quarter of a pint of port wine, and let it simmer gently on the fire for about a quarter of an hour, taking care that the lid of the saucepan is kept closely on. Then strain off the port wine, which is now flavoured with cin- namon, cloves, and lemon, into a small stewpan containing a small pot of black- currant jelly. The saucepan must be kept sufficiently long on the fire for the jelly to melt. Black currant jelly can also be used for a variety of forms of sweets, tartlets, etc. It is sometimes served instead of red-currant jelly with roast mutton, roast venison, and roast hare. Black currant jelly is very useful in assisting to flavour jugged hare, and especially in cases where the hare is somewhat high. To make jugged hare flavoured with black-currant jelly pro- ceed as follows :—Cut up the raw hare into joints, next take a large stone jar and place the empty jar in the oven till it becomes very not. Then take some sticks of cinnamon, a dozen cloves, four or five strips of thin lemon-peel, and bruise these in a pestle and mortar. Take a good-sized tablespoonful of black-currant jelly and a claret-glass full of port wine. Throw these into the hot jar, and place in the joints of hare. Tie the jar over with a piece of bladder fastened with a piece of string. The heat of the jar will melt the jelly, and the fumes of the wine and jelly will be absorbed by the joints of the hare, which will become impregnated with the flavour. Let the jar stand until it is cold. Then add «some good stock, and let the hare stew gently for two or three hours, taking care that the liquid does not boil. Venison cutlets may be prepared in a very similar manner. The cutlets should be cut off a neck of venison and trimmed, leaving on as much fat as possible. Some black-39 HOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. currant jelly, cipnamon, cloves, lemon- peel, and port wine should be thrown into a heated jar, as before directed, and the raw cutlets put into the jar with them. The jar should be tied over as before with a piece of bladder. The cutlets should be kept in till the jar is quite cold. By this means the meat itself gets impregnated with the flavour of the wine, cinnamon, etc. They can be afterwards cooked over a clear fire, i.e., grilled after being dipped in clarified butter. In the case of hare or venison being somewhat high, it will generally be found that black-currant jelly is superior to red, though the latter is more frequently used. CURRANT JELLY, RED.—Red-currant jellyis usuallyserved with roast mutton, hare, jugged hare, venison, etc. It can also be used in exactly the same manner as black-currant jelly for assisting the flavour of hare soup, venison soup, etc. Care should be taken not to make the soup too sweet. Red currant jelly is also used for making sweet sauce. One popular sauce, known as cherry sauce, is made from red-currant jelly. The currant jelly, say a small pot, should be placed in a stewpan with a dozen cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of a couple of oranges, a small piece of garlic, and a large spoonful of good brown gravy should be added to it, with half a pint of burgundy. The whole should then be allowed to boil for about twenty minutes. The sauce should be strained, and the juice of a couple of oranges added to it before sending the sauce to table. This sauce is generally served with venison, red-deer, and roebuck, especially when the latter two have been marinaded. This sauce is recom- mended by M. Francatelli. Another sauce for venison can be made as fol- lows :—Take some lean ham, about a quarter of a pound, and chop it up very fine, and put it in a stewpan with a little butter, thyme, a bay-leaf, half a dozen green onions, and some parsley. Add to this a wineglassful of French vinegar. Let the whole boil on the fire till it is reduced to about half the original quantity. Then add a small ladleful of good brown gravy, about half a pint of some red wine, and a little good stock. Stir it on the fire till it boils, and care- fully skim it until it is reduced to its proper consistency. Finish by adding a spoonful of red-currant jelly and the juice of an orange. CURRANT SYRUP, BLACK.—Black- currant syrup is very nice mixed with water, and is a refreshing drink in hot weather when mixed with iced soda- water. Black-currant syrup can be used for making sweet sauce, but it has a very powerful flavour, and must be used with care. CURRANT SYRUP, RED.—Red-cur- rant syrup is preferable to black-currant syrup. Its flavour is not so strong, nor is it so sickly. In summer these syrups always form a most refreshing drink, and it is greatly to be regretted that they are not more generally sold throughout the kingdom. The great national vice of intemperance is best met by providing cheap substitutes for the intoxicating liquor now sold. The poor man has but little choice be- tween a glass of beer and a glass of cold water. There is often a craving, not necessarily for some intoxicating kind of fluid, but. for something better than water. Ginger-beer, which is one of the few English alternatives to ordinary beer, is a most unsatisfactory drink, and, as I have before observed in speak- ing on the subject, it is generally met with in a tepid state, and has a ten- dency to settle in the nose. Grocers would do well during the summer-time to sell glasses of syrup-and-water at a penny. Should this become universal the patronage of the Blue Ribbon Army alone would soon make the ex- periment a success. The cost of having a small filter of cool water always ready during the hot summer days would be quite nominal, and the occasional addi- tion of a lump of ice would be all that would be necessary. It is to be hoped that during the ensuing summer some grocers will try the experiment. Great efforts are being made in the present day by the clergy of all denominations to put a stop to excessive drinking. One great drawback to temperance in this country is that there are so few drinks sold at the same price for which a glass of beer can be obtained, namely, a penny. At hotels, although a glass of the best bitter ale is only twopence, mineral waters, so-called, namely gin- ger-beer and lemonade, are often charged at the price of sixpence, and soldom less than fourpence. To theCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 40 oor man this price is absolutely pro- - ibitive. What is required is that the pint of beer, which is now sold in many places for three-halfpence, should have a non-intoxicant, purer, and better rival at the same price. These fruit syrups sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell are probably the best form in which a cheap substitute for beer can be sup- plied. Were the demand greater, the supply would probably be cheaper, for grocers’ shops throughout the kingdom might be converted into cheap restaur- ants, where refreshing drinks which are not intoxicating could be obtained. The essential point in hot weather in selling drinks is that they should be cool. The craving for some stimulant is often satisfied with any drink so long as the tongue is cooled. Medical men have often recommended persons pos- sessed of an habitual craving for drink to carry a few raisins in their pocket, and occasionally to chew one or two, or a grape or two. Still, there is nothing equal to a draught of some slightly acid and nicely flavoured fluid. CURRANTS, BOTTLED. — Currants, both black and red, are sold in bottles, plain. Plain bottled fruit contains no sugar. When, therefore, they are to be used for the purpose of making pies, the liquor should be strained off and sweet- ened, and it will often be found best to boil the liquor and allow it to get cold. Cooks should, however, always bear in mind that the fruit is already sufficiently cooked, and therefore it is best to let the liquor cool before the currants are added to it. The pie-dish can be covered with paste, and as soon as the paste is cooked the pie is done. Should the currants be added to the liquor when hot, they get over-cooked, and then the tendency is for them to break up, and the pie will consist of rich cur- rant juice containing a large number of pips. In using bottled fruits it is always desirable, as much as possible, to keep the fruit whole. CURRANTS AND RASPBERRIES, BOTTLED.—Currants are often bottled, mixed with raspberries, and by many currant-and-raspberry pie is preferred to currants alone. These pies are always intended to be eaten cold. One of the best additions to cold fruit pie made from currants and raspberries is Devon- shire cream. Very often when the pies are to be eaten cold, the cook will place them in the oven for a few minutes, as the heat renders the paste more light. This, however, should be avoided. The pie should either be thoroughly hot or stone cold. In hot weather it will often be found advisable to place the pie in an ice-chest for half an hour before dinner. One of the chief attractions to fruit pie is the fact of its being stone cold. CURRANTS IN SYRUP.-Currants are also sold preserved in syrup. These will make a pie, but no sugar should be added. They are more suitable, how- ever, for the purpose of making open tarts. When used for making open tarts it will be found desirable to drain off some of the syrup, and to dissolve in it a small amount of gelatine or isinglass. Only sufficient should be added to cause it to be thick. When cold it should not set into a hard jelly. Open tarts made from currants in syrup are greatly im- proved by being covered over with a little whipped cream. The whipped cream should not be put on until a short time before the tart is served. Currants preserved in syrup will keep good till the bottle is opened, but when the bottle is once opened the contents should be used up in the course of one or two days, as after the bottle is opened it is apt, if allowed to remain, to get furred over. CURRIED MEATS, HALFORD’S.—A very nice and popular form of food is sold by all grocers under the name of curried meats (Halford’s). Mr. Halford in former years had the good fortune to be chef to the Viceroy of India, and his opinion, therefore, on curry is not to be despised. Of course, it is a truism to say there are curries and curries, and what will please one person will not always please another. One great ad- vantage of the curried goods supplied by Mr. Halford is that while they pos- sess all the essentials of good curry no one flavour will be found to predomi- nate. Persons who have lived long in India can eat curry far hotter than those who have not; but it is always easy to add, while it is impossible to subtract flavour, such as cayenne or chili. The essential point in Mr. Halford’s curries is that they are41 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. generally somewhat mild. Thus those persons who prefer curry very hot can add curry powder, curry paste, cayenne pepper, whole chilies, etc. Halford s curries are sold in tins—namely, curried fowl, curried rabbit, curried lobster, and curried prawns, besides which curry sauce made by Halford is sold in tins by itself. This latter will be found an exceedingly useful dish to the cook, as it enables her to serve a dish of curry from the remains of any cold meat at a few minutes’ notice. One great im- provement to all curries is to warm up a few bay-leaves in the curry and send them to table whole. Another great essential to curry is some good plain boiled rice. Boiling rice for curry is not so simple a thing as many cooks would imagine. The great art of boil- ing rice is to send it to table so that each grain is separate, and yet cooked through. When the grains of rice stick together it shows that it has been badly boiled. In England the rice is generally preferred cooked through. In the East, as in Egypt and Turkey, rice is always served in a state resembling an Irish potato— namely, it has an “eye” in it. The outside of the rice is soft, but there is a small hard spot in the middle. Pro- bably in countries where rice is almost the staff of life, in this condition a greater amount can be eaten, and it is jjossible that it possesses more nourish- ing powers. The best way to boil rice for curry is as follows :—First of all wash the rice very thoroughly in several waters, and continue to wash it till the water in which it is washed does not become cloudy or change colour. Throw the rice into sufficient boiling water to more than cover it. Let it boil for about ten minutes, then take it off the fire, strain it, and place the saucepan in which it has been boiled in a very hot place by the side of the fire, and not over the fire, or the rice would bum. Allow the rice to steam and swell gradually. It should be occa- sionally stirred with a fork or spoon. The rice will now gradually dry, and when dry the grains will not adhere to one another. This is the usual way in which rice is boiled on board the Penin- sular and Oriental Company’s steamers. I remember, however, some years ago seeing a curry cook on board the Mir- zapore boil the rice as follows. He first boiled it for about eight or ten minutes, and then strained it in a sieve, and washed it again with cold water for some time. The rice was then replaced in the saucepan, and the saucepan put by the side of the fire for the rice to gradually heat and swell and become dry. The result was certainly most satisfactory. Which of these two methods is preferable had better be left to the cook, who can try each receipt. Of course, a good deal depends on the rice. When the rice is very large rather more time should be allowed than when it is small. Halford’s curries are a most convenient form of having a dish ready at a few moments’ notice, the only thing necessary being that the tin should be immersed in boiling water, and the water allowed to boil for about twenty minutes. The tin can then be opened and the contents turned out on to a dish. The rice should always be served separate, and not on the same dish as the curry. In handing round curry and rice the servant should be instructed to hand the rice before the curry, the proper plan being to place a spoonful of rice in the plate, and to form it into a •sort of well. The curry is then taken and placed in the centre, surrounded by the white rim. There are various ways in which a tin of Halford’s curry can be altered in flavour according to the taste of the eater. For instance, many per- sons have a great objection to the flavour of garlic, while with others garlic is most popular. Those who are very fond of the flavour of onion and garlic would do well to add a little of this to the curry. A few beads of garlic can be placed in the curry sauce for a time, and then taken out, or, what is still better, an onion or a couple of onions can be sliced and fried a nice dark-brown colour in the frying-pan. Some of the curry sauce should then be added to it, and the whole allowed to boil for a few minutes ; then rub the lot through a wire siete. When this is done it will be best to rub the whole of the sauce through the sieve, and as Hal- ford’s curry contains a certain quantity of carrot, the carrot had better be rubbed through the sieve with the onion. Another way of heating curry is to boil some long red chilies in the sauce. Real Indian curry owes its heat to what is known as chili paste, and when the chilies themselves are boiled in curryCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 42 sauce a better flavour is produced than simply by adding curry powder. Cur- ried prawns form a most delicious dish, and are best served at breakfast. In the case of curried prawns and curried shrimps the rice is best served in the same dish. The boiled rice should be placed on the dish first, a well made in the rice, and the contents of the tin of curry poured into it. In rising Hal- ford’s curry sauce for fresh shrimps the shrimps should be picked. Two quarts of shrimps will yield nearly a pint of picked shrimps. When the shrimps have not been too much salted it will be found a very great improvement to put all the heads into a pestle and mortar or thick basin with a little stock, and pound them as much as possible so as to mix up in the stock that little dark part in the head of the shrimp which corre- sponds to the soft meat in the back of a crab and the green soft part in the head of a lobster, and contains by far the most delicious flavour of the shrimp. It can then be added to the curry sauce, which should be made hot. The picked shrimps should then be thrown into the hot sauce, and the whole kept on the fire only just sufficiently long to make the shrimps hot through ; they should not be allowed to boil. In serv- ing curried lobster also the rice should be placed on a small dish with the curry. Should the cook have in the house that very valuable compound known as lobster butter, a small quan- tity added to the curry will be found a decided improvement. I cannot too strongly impress on cooks the great importance of keeping all the red coral from the lobster, making it into lobster butter, and putting it by for use. Lobster butter is made as fol- lows :—The red coral should be pounded with about an equal quantity of butter. The coral should be first washed and all the soft part of the meat of the lobster removed before it „is pounded. Some cayenne pepper should be added, say a saltspoonful of cayenne to three table- spoonfuls of lobster butter. This will prevent the lobster butter from going bad. It is a bright red colour, and very much resembles red lead in appearance. Lobster butter is invaluable, and is essential for making good shrimp sauce, lobster sauce, and bisque soup. By adding the cayenne in sufficient quan- tity lobster butter may be made so that it will keep good for months. It im- parts a bright red colour to the sauce which cannot be matched. When cooks attempt to colour lobster sauce or shrimp sauce with cochineal the result must be an inevitable failure. Tins of Halford’s curries are exceedingly useful to those who live in bachelor apart- ments, who by this means can always ensure a nice hot supper at any hour without giving trouble to servants. The tin can be warmed up over the fire or over a gas-jet or spirit lamp. There are very ingenious little stands now sold at one shilling each which will fix on to any gas-jet, and on this the saucepan can be placed. There are many persons who would gladly welcome a nice dish of hot curry on a cold winter’s night, and the only reason they do not have one is that they have not taken the pre- caution to always have on hand one or two of these convenient tins. CURRY PASTE.—There are various kinds of curry paste sold, and these vary somewhat in flavour and quality, but of all the curry pastes I think by far the best is that of Captain White. Captain White’s curry paste is also recommended by thewell-known and distinguished chef at the Freemasons’ Tavern. Curry paste is generally best used in conjunction with curry powder. The best way of making curry is as follows :—Take four good-sized onions, slice them up, and fry them in the frying-pan a nice brown colour. Take also some carrot and the trimmings of a head of celery. Fry all these till they are sufficiently tender in some butter, and till the onion is a nice brown colour without being burnt black. Then take a large sour apple, peel it, cut out the core, slice it up, and add it to the vegetables in the frying-pan. To this add a pint of good brown gravy. Let the whole boil for a few minutes, and then rub it all through a wire sieve into a basin. It is essential that the whole of the onion, the carrot, the head of celery, and the apple should be sent through the sieve. Good curry cannot be made unless the cook has sufficient patience to send the whole through. Then add to this a tablespoonful of Captain White’s curry paste and a tablespoonful of curry powder. The curry sauce is now formed, and can be added to any kind of meat that may be required. One great reason why IndianHOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. curry is always spoken of as being so far superior to English curry is that in India fresh meat is always used for it. On the other hand, in England ninety- nine times out of a hundred curry is made from the remains of beef and mutton that have been cooked before. Of course, when fresh meat is used it is far superior to meat already cooked. There are various additions that can be made to curry. One very popular one is when the curry sauce is made to add a little grated cocoa-nut. This certainly improves the flavour, but of course it is entirely a question of taste. In mixing curry in India the natives use cocoa-nut oil, consequently the addition of a little cocoa-nut tends to give this same flavour. Another great improvement is to add a few bay-leaves to the curry, serving the bay-leaves in the curry. This is usually done on board the Peninsular and Oriental Company’s boats. In pre- paring the meat for curry it is far the best plan to have the meat shredded. This requires patience, but too often cooks are apt to imagine that any meat, however roughly cut, is good enough to curry. Indeed, there is an old saying that a good cook can curry an old boot. This is, however, a very great mistake. .Many a dish of curry is spoilt owing to the careless way in which pieces of skin, gristle, etc., are added, and which, owing to the thickness of the curry sauce, find their way to the mouth without being detected. In currying rabbit it is best first of all to parboil the rabbit to remove all the meat from the bones, and to use the rabbit bones in making some good stock for the gravy to be added to the curry sauce. So, too, in curried fowl, let the fowl be par- tially roasted, and when in an under- done state it should be cut up, the bones removed and chopped up and used to make the sauce. It is far better thus to utilise the bones than to let them be sent down on the plate. The amount of nourishment to be extracted from the bones of chickens and rabbits when they can be boiled for a long time is very great indeed. So far as economy is concerned, it is always cheaper to bone the joint or bird than to cook it as it is. Another improvement to curry is the flavour of powdered coriander seed. Curry powder contains coriander seed, but when the powder has been kept for a long time, and, possibly through care- lessness, the stopper of the bottle has been left loose, the flavour of coriander is apt to escape. A little powdered coriander seed should be added when the powder has been kept for a long time. In making curry sauce cooks should always remember that part of the thickness is due to the onion, celery, carrot, etc., that have been rubbed through the sieve. Should the sauce be thin a little brown roux—(see Roux, Brown)—should be added for the pur- pose of thickening it. In all cases where roux is added very great care should be taken to remove the fat. Care should also be taken in mak- ing curry sauce to remove the fat used in frying the onion and vege- tables. One way to remove fat from sauces, soups, etc., is to allow the sauce or soup to simmer gently by the side of the fire so that it will throw up the fat. It is a great mistake to suppose that when the sauce or soup has got cold, and the cake of fat has settled on the top, that by removing this all the fat is taken from the soup or sauce. Such is not the case. If cooks, after removing the cake of fat, will simply boil the sauce again for half an hour or more, and then skim it or allow it to get cold, they will often find a cake of fat will settle on the top quite as thick as the previous one. When sauce is made in any quantity it is always best to let it simmer gently by the fire- side, and constantly skim it while it simmers. The skimming need not be thrown away, as it will often settle, and at the bottom of the thick coating of fat will be found some of the sauce, which can be replaced the second day. One very delicious dish which is often met with in America, though not so often in this country, is curried oysters. Curried oysters are best made with good large-sized oysters. The Blue Points sold in this country now, and w’hich are very fairly cheap, make an admirable curry. The oysters should first be scalded in their own liquor, as follows : —Place them in a small stewpan, with sufficient liquor to cover them. Place the stewpan on the fire, watching it carefully, and the moment it boils take it off the fire, strain the oysters, and let them dry. When dry they should be floured and dipped in a well-beaten egg, and some breadcrumbs sprinkled over them. The breadcrumbs should beCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 44 very fine, and the oysters, after they have been egged and breadcrumbed, should be set on one side till the egg and breadcrumbs become very dry. This is important. They should then be fried in smoking hot fat sufficiently long for the breadcrumbs to turn a nice bright golden-brown colour. The bread- crumbs when very dry will turn colour very quickly, which is what is wanted. If the oyster, after it has been covered with breadcrumbs, had been plunged into smoking hot fat in too moist a state it would require some time for the breadcrumbs to turn colour, the conse- quence being that the oyster will be hard, owing to its being exposed too long to the action of heat. When, therefore, fried oysters are served it is always best for the cook to prepare them early in the day, and to put them by to dry. Oysters should be piled up in the centre of a dish, and the curry sauce poured round, but not over them. Some fried parsley should also be mixed with the oysters, to be eaten with them, as well as to ornament them. Another very nice form of curry is curried sweet- breads. The sweetbreads should be first parboiled, and then thrown into water till they are quite cold. Next the cook should carefully remove all pieces of skin, flap, etc. One great drawback to sweetbreads carelessly prepared is the nasty pieces of skin that are so un- pleasant when unfortunately they get into the mouth. After the sweetbread has been carefully trimmed it should be dipped in well-beaten egg and some breadcrumbs thrown over it. It should then be allowed, like the oysters, to dry. Sometimes it is advisable to egg and breadcrumb the sweetbreads twice over. By this means they get covered with a richer and thicker coat. Sweetbreads should be fried in smoking hot lard, and should be allowed to cook till they are a darker colour than fried oysters. A rich mahogany-brown is the colour to be de- sired. They will not spoil by being ex- posed to heat like oysters. Sweetbreads should be piled up in the centre of the dish, ornamented with fried parsley, and curry sauce poured round the base. A small crayfish at the top of the dish is a very nice ornament. In making curry sauce, where the flavour of garlic is liked a few beads of garlic can be added to the vegetables and onions at starting, and the whole nibbed through | a wire sieve. Boiled rice should be always handed with curry, and the rice should be handed before the curry. (For boiling rice see Curried Meats, Halford’s.) When curried prawns are made from fresh prawns the cook should carefully scrape out all the soft meat from the head and add it to the curry sauce, and send it through a wire sieve, which will improve the flavour. In currying lobster from fresh lobster the whole of the soft part found in the head should also be added to the sauce and sent through the sieve. In currying lobster some cooks add a little anchovy paste or anchovy butter. This is, of course, a matter of taste. For my own part, I do not think it is a good addi- tion. Curry paste is also used for the purpose of making mulligatawny soup. Mulligatawny soup is, in fact, simply curry sauce diluted with some good stock. Boiled rice should be served with mulligatawny soup, but should not be placed in the soup itself, but handed separately. Some persons think grated Parmesan cheese an improve- ment to mulligatawny. I do not think myself that this is at all a nice addition. Mulligatawny soup is always very much improved by boiling a few bay- leaves in the soup. The bay-leaves should not be served in the soup, but removed before serving. They, how- ever, greatly improve the rich aro- matic-scented smell. Curried lobster can be made from tinned lobster. It is one of the best forms in which tinned lobster can be served. Of course, all tinned goods differ somewhat from fresh goods of a similar nature. Tinned lobster is certainly very different from fresh lobster. When, however, some good, rich, strong curry sauce is added it is very difficult to distinguish between tinned lobster and fresh, and any flavour peculiar to tinned goods is entirely re- moved if the curry sauce is made good. CURRY POWDER.—Curry powder is the most common form in which curry is sold. (For making curry see CURRY Paste.) I have already stated that curry powder should be mixed with curry paste. Good curry can, howrever, be made from curry powder alone. The addition of fried onions and vegetables, as directed under the heading Curry Paste, is essential, as well as the addi- tion of sour apples. When apples can-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. *5 not be obtained tbe cook must exercise her own ingenuity to supply a substi- tute. I will give a few instances. Young green gooseberries are quite as good as apples in making curry. Another desir- able addition to curry is a spoonful of Captain White’s Oriental pickles. This Oriental pickle, of course, contains vine- gar, and when the sour apple is not to lie obtained the addition of the pickle is quite sufficient to give the required slight acid flavour. Another nice addi-. tion to curry when made from curry powder direct with curry paste is to add a spoonful of chutney. There are various kinds of chutney sold—namely, Madras chutney, Bengal Club chutney, Colonel Skinner’s chutney, Cooke’s chutney, Indian mango chutney, etc. A spoonful of any of these chutneys can iie added to the curry in the frying-pan, and rubbed through a wire sieve witb the onions and vegetables. This tends very greatly to impart that peculiar “ Indian ” flavour which is considered so requisite for all first-class curries. In India itself mangoes are used for flavouring curry instead of apples, as in England. In this country fresh man- goes cannot be obtained, but a spoonful of mango chutney of course imparts the desired mango flavour. I would strongly recommend cooks in making curry from curry powder only, to try the effect of using a good-sized table- spoonful of mango chutney instead of tne usual apples. When curry is liked very hot of course it can always be in- creased in flavour by the addition of cayenne pepper. When cayenne pepper is added I would recommend the use of soluble cayenne pepper. This will im- part heat, but it does not produce the after burning sensation in the mouth too often caused by using ordinary red cayenne pepper, which is to a great extent insoluble. CURRY SAUCE.—Curry sauce is sold in bottles, and is recommended as an addition to be eaten with chops, steaks, etc. This curry sauce can also be used in conjunction with some good gravy and curry ]>owder to make curry, but its chief uses are to be taken as a plain sauce with cold meats, etc. AMSONS, BOTTLED. — Dam- sons are sold in bottles. The liquor in which they are preserved, however, is not sweetened. Bottled dam- sons are very useful, especially when fresh fruit is not in season, for the purpose of making fin it tarts, fruit puddings, etc., and it is very difficult to distinguish between a pie or tart made from bottled damsons and those made from fresh fruit. One very good form of serving bottled damsons is to make what is known as compete of damsons, and to serve it in an ornamental border made of rice. The damsons should be piled up in a pyramid form in the centre of the rice border, and the juice of the damsons, which is generally of a very bright colour, should be sweetened with white sugar, and slightly thickened. If the compete is served hot the juice must be thickened with arrowroot and poured over the tart. If, however, the compdtc is served cold the juice must be thick- ened with gelatine or isinglass, taking care that it is not made so as to set too thick. It does not do to have the juice set in a hard or firm jelly. All kinds of bottled fruits and fruits preserved in syrup can be served in rice borders. The rice borders should be made as follows : —Let the Cook take say a pound of rice, and wash it thoroughly in several waters. The rice should be washed until the water ceases to turn cloudy or thick. Next place the rice in as much milk as it will soak up, and the rice must then be boiled until it is quite tender, and the whole turned out into a large basin or pestle and mortar and pounded well together. Great care should be exercised in pounding the rice to get it all into a smooth paste. The cook, too, must be careful to have the consistency not too thin and not too thick. The whole should now be rolled into a round ball, and if the consistency is right it 'will retain this round shape. Next press the round ball flat till it becomes the shape of a whole cheese. This rice border is now to be baked in the oven, but before baking it can be ornamented in a variety of different ways. The best way of ornamenting rice borders is for the cook to get a carrot or some vegetable of that de- scription, and to cut it into a shapo like a triangular chisel. By pressing46 Crosse and Blackwell's this carrot thus cut against the edges of the border, the border of rice can be formed into a number of projections somewhat star-shaped, the whole of which, of course, will be exactly the same size, as they are formed in the same mould. It is far better to use a mould cut from vegetable than to attempt to form the rice into anything like a pretty shape by hand or by using a knife. It is almost impossible to get the ornamental ridges the same size unless only one mould is used. Of course, the- cook can exercise her in- genuity as to the shape in which the rice is formed. For instance, if the carrot should be scooped out, say three inches high, and fluted at the top, by pressing this against the border the border would be surrounded by a series of small round pillars rounded at the top, each three inches in height. The mould should now be lightly washed over with clarified butter, and placed in the oven to bake. When the rice border is to be filled with any kind of meat or ragout the border should be baked till it is a nice light-brown colour, but when it is intended to be filled with any kind of sweets, preserves, etc., it should not be kept in the oven more than long enough to dry the rice. Next take the border out of the oven, and scoop out the inside part. What is scraped can be rolled into small round balls about the same size as the damsons. The damsons can now be placed in the interior, piled up, and the juice poured over. A few damsons can be reserved and placed round the edge of the mould with little balls of rice of the same size. The alternate white balls and coloured dam- sons round the edge have a very pretty effect. A much cheaper and quicker way of making rice borders for compOtcs of fruits is simply to boil the rice in some milk till it is tender and can be moulded with the hands. Turn the rice into the dish and press it together till an oval border is made about two or three inches in height. If the rice is well boiled, when it cools this border will have sufficient consistency to allow of the fruit being turned into the centre. Some of the bright damson juice can now be made into jelly by the simple addition of a little gelatine. Of course, the juice of the damsons must first bo well sweetened. Before putting the damsons in the centre of the mould, and when the jelly made from gelatine in damson-juice is nearly on the point of setting, with a tablespoon pour it over the cold boiled rice. The cold of the rice, supposing that it has been kept in a cold place, will cause the jelly to set instantly. The rice, therefore, is now covered with a transparent film of jelly, the colour of damson-juice. Then place round the edge of the mould little white balls just the size of the damsons, and place the remainder of the fruit in the j centre of the dish. When this is done j and the fruit is piled up it is an im- provement to sprinkle over the fruit a few white grains of boiled rice. The ! white specks on the red background have an equally pretty effect to red specks on a white background. Damsons can be used for making a variety of dishes | which space will not allow us to enter ! into, but for which I would recommend j reference to that admirable book, Cassell’s “ Dictionary of Cookery.” The juice of damsons will make damson jelly of a similar description to red- currant jelly by simply being boiled with sugar. Most fruit jellies,.such as red-currant jelly, are made by boiling about a pint of juice with three-quarters of a pound of lump sugar till the whole sets. The same can bo tried with dam- son-juice. I may here add that when cooks use rice borders for entrees of meat, game, financiere ragout, etc., the rice should not be boiled in milk but in good clear stock. As I have previously said, rice borders for meat entrees should be baked in the oven to a nice bright brown colour. DAMSON CHEESE.—Damson cheese is now sold ready made, and is an ex- tremely popular form of sweet, though it is not so often met with in the present day as it was some years ago. Damson cheese is really a form of damson jelly. Cooks will, however, find this is useful rather to send to table as a sweet or dessert dish, but it can be used for or- namenting other sweets. Strips of damson cheese can be cut and used to set off the appearance of many cold white puddings, such as cornflour pud- ding, arrowroot pudding, solid custard, etc., its value for ornamenting purposes being dependent on its extremely bril- liant colour when cut. It is, however, generally served whole in a glass dish for dessert.HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. DAMSON JAM.—Damson jam is an- other form in which damsons are sold in a preserved state. It is a cheap jam, and verv similar to plum jam, but it is rather thicker in consistency, and pos- sesses a somewhat stronger flavour. It is therefore admirably adapted for making those puddings so popular with children known as roly-poly puddings. In making roly-poly puddings from very thin jam cooks often experience the difficulty of getting sufficient jam into the pudding, and they know what a tendency jam has to squeeze out at the corners when the pudding is rolled up. Damson jam, owing to its firmness, is therefore well adapted for this purpose, though, of course, in making all roly- poly puddings the greatest care should always be taken to firmly tie the cloth at both ends as well as to secure it in the middle. Damson jam, owing to its dark and beautiful colour, also forms a valuable addition in making a dish of tartlets, where as many different colours are desired as possible. It is also use- ful in making those flat, round, open tarts, ornamented with different kinds of jam of various colours. I have al- ready alluded to these tarts under the heading of Apricot Jam. Where different shades of clear red colour are desired it will be found that damson jam is a very nice contrast to raspberry or strawberry, the latter two being bright red, whereas damson is of a deep purple hue, which renders it so valuable an assistant to the cook for ornamental purposes. DEVILLED HAM.—See Ham, Devil- led. DE BARBIERE’S VERMICELLI.—See Vermicelli. DRIED HERBS.—See Herbs, Dried. DRIED TURTLE FLESH.—See Turtle Flesh, Dried. DRIOLI'S MARASCHINO.—Sec Maraschino. DURHAM MUSTARD.—See Mustard. GYPTIAN SPLIT LENTILS.- See Lentils. ELDER VINEGAR. — See Vinegar. ENGLISH MILK.—See Milk. ESCHALOT VINEGAR.—See Vine- gar. ESSENCES, VARIOUS.- Various kinds of essences are sold in bottles. They may be divided into two classes—those which contain some essential oil, and which must therefore be used in very minute quantities, and those which do not. Under the former heading we have essence of almonds, essence of cin- namon, essence of cloves, essence of celery, essence of ginger, etc. When- ever these essences are used great care should be exercised so as not to spoil the dish by carelessly putting in too much. As a rule, two or three drops of these essences are sufficient to flavour a considerable quantity of fluid, and it is always best to drop the essence into a spoon. When this is done, if too much has been poured out the mistake can be rectified. When the essence is dropped into the soup or gravy, pudding, etc., di- rect you run the risk of spoiling the dish. Under the various headings descriptions of these essences will be found. The j other kinds of essences are those which are used in large quantities, such as \ essence of beef, essence of chicken, etc. ! These are really a concentrated form of j soup, and they are prepared for use by ! simply adding to them about three or I four times their own bulk of water, j Essence of coffee is anof' essence which can be used in larg jr quantities without risk. The manner in which all these essences should be used will be found described under their respective headings. EXTRACTUM CARNIS, OR EXTRACT OF MEAT.—Extract of meat is one of the most useful of modern inventions in connection with health and the table. It was originally introduced as a valu- able form of invalid food, but its use lately has probably been more extended to the kitchen than to the sick-room. However, in both alike it is invaluable. For the simple purpose of making beef- tea a spoonful of extract of meat can be dissolved in half a pint of boiling water, and pepper and salt added to suit the taste. It can also be employed as a concentrated form of nourishment in the shape of sandwiches. The extract itself can bespread between two thin slices of bread and butter, a little pepper and48 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S salt added, and the sandwich eaten just as it is. When invalids are ordered to take a great deal of nourishment under the too common circumstance, loss of appetite, this is a very nice way of taking a considerable amount of nourish- ment in a very small space. It is in the kitchen, however, that the extract of meat can be turned to the greatest account, as it virtually supplies the place of gx-avy-beef. In large kitchens connected with hotels and restaurants extract of meat is not required. In all big hotels the meat and bones left enable the cook to always have on hand a large amount of good strong stock. A good cook will always take care that nothing is lost or thrown away. Every scrap of raw meat, and the trim- mings of joints, cutlets, etc., are used for the stockpot after the fat has first been carefully removed, and the fat, of course, run down to make dripping. In small private houses, however, the stockpot is not so easily replenished, and I fear that in too many the stock- pot does not exist at all. In all private families there is a constant succession of the remains of joints in the shape of what cooks sometimes .call bare bones, and I fear that in too many instances these so- called “bare bones” are thrown away. I was lately staying in a house by the seaside, where to my astonishment I found the person who let the lodgings had been in the habit of throwing away the water in which meat had been boiled, and had never even heard of the fact that this would make excellent soup. Extract of meat should be used in making soups—not by itself alone, but in addition to some cheap form of meat which can be stewed down to make stock. Perhaps one of the best mediums for making good stock for ordinary purposes is bones. I will just describe how to make some good soup from bones with the assistance of some extract of meat. Take say three- pennyworth of bones, and put them in cold water, about • two quarts, with one carrot, one turnip, one onion in which half a dozen cloves have been stuck, and a small head of celery, or some trimmings of celery, and a bunch of parsley. When a good-sized head of celery is bought it should bo thoroughly washed and then trimmed. The best part—namely, the hard white part—can be reserved to be eaten with cheese after dinner, or to be used for celery sauce or stewed celery, while the trimmings of the celery can be used for the stockpot. If possible, in addition to these vege- tables, slice up and add three or four leeks. Sometimes when the flavour of' onion is not liked four or five leeks can be sliced up and substituted for the onion. Let the whole of this simmer gently for five or six hours. (It is always best to make this sort of soup the day before it is required to be eaten.) Then strain it off into a large basin, cover it over with a cloth, and let it get cold. In the morning the fat can be removed from the top, the sou]) poured again into the saucepan, and made to boil. Then add a brimming teaspoonful of extract of meat. You will now have the base of a really good soup. This soup can be thickened with some brown roux—(see Roux, Brown) —and some carrot and turnip should be cut up and put in it. Of course, by adding more extract of meat the soup can be rendered much richer. The original quantity of water added to the stock was two quarts, but we have supposed that by boiling, etc., this has been reduced to three pints. Good gravy can be made by simply allowing say a pint of this soup to gently boil away until it has reduced itself to about half the original quantity. Cooks do not sufficiently understand the import- ance of letting weak soups boil away. Extract of meat is in reality very good beef-tea that contains no gelatine, but on the contrary, the juice of the meat itself that has been boiled away until it has become the thick compound which we see. This kind of thick stock forms an excellent base for various kinds of soup, such as thick oxtail, mock turtle, mulligatawny, pme, hare soup, etc. Good thick oxtail soup is simply an ox- tail cut up and boiled in soup of this description, and a few vegetables added. Mock-turtle soup is simply calves’-head boiled in stock of this description. The meat must be cut up into small squares * about an inch and a half in size, and, of course, the bones removed. One very excellent soup, that may be called mock mock-turtle, can be made by substituting pig’s-head for calves’-head. Of course, hi both cases the head must be very care- fully washed and the tongue and brains removed before it is boiled. The latter can be made into a very nice separateHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 49 dish. Tn making soup from pig’s-head the cook will have considerable diffi- culty in getting rid of the grease. The only way to get rid of the grease from sou]) of this description is to let the soup simmer gently by the fire and skim it, occasionally throwing in a little cold water, which will assist in throwing up the grease. In making mock turtle from pig’s-head I think two or three beads of garlic placed in the soup is a very great improvement; the sou]) itself is so rich that it will bear a strong garlic flavour. We have now described how to make, with the addition of some extract of meat, good stock or thick soups. Cooks should remember, however, that it is impossible to make really good clear soup from bones. If we want to make really good clear soup from extract of meat we shall require the assistance of a small quantity of knuckle of veal. All good cookery-books give receipts for making stews, soups, gravies, etc., but it should be remembered that many of these receipts have been handed down almost by tradition from time immemorial, and that the majority of them were written when gravy-beef could be bought at about threepence per pound. Many, therefore, of these receipts, which in themselves were admirable ones when meat was at this price, in the present day are extravagant simply on the ground of the great increase in the price of gravy-beef. Extract of meat, how- ever, supplies the deficiency. By far the best extract of meat that has yet been produced is that sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, under their own name. The secret of its being so good is simply due to the fact that it is made where meat is a penny or twopence per pound—namely, m Australia. To make extract of meat in this country would be simply impossible unless it were sold at six times its present cost. Now, there is a great prejudice on the part of some housekeepers and cooks against extract of meat for making soups. This pre- judice, however, is utterly unreasonable and unfounded. Soup that is made from knuckle of veal and vegetables, to which extract of meat is afterwards added, is simply soup that is made from knuckle of veal and gravy-beef, the only difference being that part of the cooking, or rather stewing down, of the meat was done in an Australian instead of in an English kitchen. To make | good clear stock from knuckle of veal and extract of meat take say about three pounds of knuckle of veal, chop it up), being careful to remove every particle of marrow from the bones, the fact being that this marrow would cause the soup) to get cloudy, and also as much as pos- sible trim away every p)article of fat. The veal should now be put in the saucep)an simply like the bones were before, and two quarts of water and the same vegetables as before mentioned should be added, and the whole allowed to boil, or rather gently simmer, for not less than six hours. By far the best fire over which to make good soup) or stock is a small gas-stove. The gas can be so regulated by simply turning a tap) that the souj) can be left to simmer and not boil. There is a considerable difference between the two. Cooks are too often heard to gpeak of letting things boil gently. The tempierature of boiling water is exactly the same, whether it boils gently or furiously—it is simply boiling water—212°. When gently sim- mering the temperature is below that of boiling water. When the stock has boiled, or rather simmered, the time we have mentioned, the cook should take a cup) or a small jug and ladle the stock out of the saueep>an till she gets out as much as she can. This will be found better than straining the whole quan- tity off, as the dregs sink to the bottom of the saucepan, and will not interfere with the brightness of the stock. This stock should now be allowed to get cold and then the fat should be removed. If the whole has simmered gently it will pirobably be clear enough for the purpose of making good clear soup) without being further clarified. The extract of meat can now be added to it, winch in itself is sufficient to give the soup) the desired colour. If, however, the soup is re- quired very bright, it can easily bo cleared as follows :—Take the white of an egg and beat it up with about a quarter of a p)int of cold water with a fork till it froths. After all the grease has been thoroughly removed from the stock, put the stock on to the fire and let it boil. When it is just beginning to boil p)our in the beaten-up) white of egg and stir it up into the stock, which, of course, will thereby be taken slightly off the boil. Stir the stock till it com- mences to boil again, and then let it boil gently for about ten minutes. Then E60 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S strain off the stock through a fine sieve, and, if necessary, re-strain it through a jelly-bag. The stock will now run per- fectly bright and clear. This makes a good base for all kinds of clear soup. One great improvement to this stock in making it, though it is not absolutely essential, is a good-sized slice of raw ham. In making stock cooks should always turn to account anything they may have by them, and for this purpose they should always save the bacon bones, ham bones, etc., that have been either left, or the pieces of bacon raw when it has been cut up for rashers, or that may be left on the dish when it has been sent up in the form of boiled bacon. One very good way of ordering in a small piece of ham for the purpose of assisting the flavour of soups—and in tire case of making white soups this is very essential—is to order one or two cushion rashers of bacon. Cooks will remember that in cushion rashers there is always a very great excess of lean over fat. This excess of lean can be removed and the rougher pieces used for the purpose of the stoclcpot, while the remainder of the ham can be fried for breakfast. Of course, the best stock is made from a variety of ingredients, such as the bones of chicken, bones of rabbits, and even game bones. In a large kitchen it is very easy to always have good stock, but in small private houses cooks could have a great deal more than they do were they to use up many of the things which now are thrown away. It is wonderful what good stock can be made simply from the bones of chickens or rabbits. In some households where economy is very desirable I would re- commend the carver in the case of help- ing boiled fowl or roast fowl, where the party is small and the family is alone, to proceed as follows :—Cut the meat off the bones and leave the bones in the dish. Let all these bones, after they have been taken away, be then put into three pints of water, after being chopped up, and the whole allowed to boil for five or six hours. They are quite suffi- cient to make a quart of good stock, which when cold will be a hard jelly. All this excellent nourishment is very often thrown into the dustbin or devoted to the family cat. A small quantity of extract of meat can be added to this stock, and of course the usual vegetables must be boiled with it. When celery cannot be obtained, two or three drops of essence of celery—(see Celery, Essence of)—or a few celery seeds may be used. (See Celery Seeds.) Care must, however, be taken in both cases not to add more than two or three drops of essence, and not to allow the seeds to boil in the stock longer than is necessary to give it the desired flavour. When good clear stock is once made the number of different soups that it can be quickly turned into is very great. For instance, macaroni sou]} is simply macaroni boiled in good clear stock. So vermicelli soup is simply vermicelli boiled in clear stock, and so also with sago soup. Italian paste is also used for making good high-class soup, but it is only the paste boiled in some good clear stock. In all cases of adding vermicelli, sago, Italian paste, macaroni, rice, etc., to clear stock, the cook should always boil all these ingredients first by themselves in a little water for a short time, and by this means the outside dirt, ■will be dissolved in the water. Were the cook to add this vermicelli or macaroni to the clear stock direct she would probably make the stock slightly cloudy. A very nice soup is made as I have described by thickening the soup with a little arrowroot or cornflour. A good clear soup can be made from ex- tract of meat without the assistance of any other kind of meat whatever, and when soup is required in a hurry it will be found a very great convenience. Take say an onion, and slice it up. Add to it any trimmings of vegetables that may be at hand, and put it on in a quart of water with two or three cloves, and let it boil for about a quarter or half an hour. Should there be any trimmings of celery these can be added to it, but if not the small bag of celery seed can bo allowed to boil hi it for a few minutes, as directed under the head Celery Seed. Add about an ounce or more of gelatine, and let this dissolve in the water, and when it is thoroughly dissolved strain it off and add to it two teaspoonfuls of extract of meat. You now have a bright clear gelatinous stock, which will form the base of a very excellent sou]). If you happen to have by you a tin of macedoines—(see Mace- doines)—take a brimming tablesponful of them, and add to the stock. As no meat has been used the stock will be absolutely bright. Should the flavourHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 51 of garlic not be objected to, one or two beads of garlic will bo found an im- provement. The thinness of the soup can also be taken off by very slightly thickening it with a little arrowroot or cornflour. The liquor that has been used to boil any kind of meat, such as leg of mutton, silverside of beef, boiled rabbit, boiled fowl, boiled turkey, etc., can always be turned into excellent soup by the addition of a few vegetables and a little extract of meat. Of course, when the quantity of liquid is excessive it must be allowed to reduce itself by boiling. Extract of meat can also be used to make excellent glaze, which will be bright in colour. Take a little clear stock or water, and dissolve in it suffi- cient gelatine or isinglass to make it a hard jelly when cold. Now add a spoonful of extract of meat, which will make it into a rich dark mahogany- brown colour. When this is beginning to set it can be used with a brush to glaze fowls, turkeys, or anything for which glaze is required, and it has the great advantage of being bright and transparent. A bead of garlic boiled in the glaze is a great improvement. EXTRAIT D’ABSINTHE. — See AB- SINTHE. ARINACEOUS FOOD, HARD’S. —See Infants’ Food. FARCIE’S OLIVES,—See Olives. FIGS: GOLD, GLACEE, AND MAR- SEILLAISE.—These are green figs that have been preserved in an unripe state, similar to preserved oranges, and then crystallised. They are an exceedingly nice addition to a dish of preserved fruits for dessert, and can be used in connection with other crystallised fruits for ornamental purposes. FINANCIERE RAGOUT. —Financiere ragout is now sold in bottles. This de- licious preserved mixture consists of cocks’ combs, cocks’ kernels, small but- ton mushrooms, truffles, scallops of sweetbread, etc. Those in bottles are preserved in a clear jelly, and are used to make that most popular of all dishes known as financiere ragout, or Toulouse ra'jout. The contents of the bottles, however, cannot be served just as they are, but they require the addition of some good rich sauce. Financiere ragout consists of the ingredients we have mentioned served up in a very rich brown gravy, the flavour of which has been improved by the addition of a small spoonful of either madeira or golden sherry. Ragout a la Toulouse is simply the same ingredients warmed up in a rich bechamel sauce. Of course, from the nature of the ingredients them- selves, financiere ragout cannot be called a very cheap dish, and is generally re- served for great occasions, consequently the cook should be very careful that the sauce, whether brown or white, is worthy of the ingredients to which it is added. To make good sauce for finan- cier e ragout the cook should get some good stock similar to that given under the heading of Extract of Meat, but this stock should be improved by being re- duced in quantity. Two quarts of good stock should be allowed to boil away till it is reduced to about a pint. Very often financiere ragout sold in bottles does not contain any sweetbread, but consists simply of the cocks’ combs, truffles, and mushrooms preserved in brine. When this is the case the sweet- breads should be added afterwards. Should the contents be too salt they should be soaked for two or three hours in fresh water. When the ragout is pre- served in jelly, the jelly should be added to the sauce. In adding small scal- lops of sweetbread to the financiere ragout the cook must first parboil the sweetbread and throw it into cold water. The sweetbread must then be very care- fully trimmed, and every particle of skin removed. It will also be found sometimes more economical to add small scallops of the white meat of a fowl or a turkey, as well as some quenelles of forcemeat. Financiere ragout is some- times served by itself, in which case an equal quantity of sweetbread can be added to it. It is also often used to garnish, other dishes. For instance, fillet of rabbit larded is sometimes sur- rounded by financiere (i la Toulouse, salmi of partridge is garnished with finan- ciere ragout. One of the most popular forms in which financiere is served, as well as financiere a la Toulouse, is that of a vol-au-vent. The vol-au-vcnt is simply a very large pate made of rich light puff-paste. I will not here enter52 CROSSE AND into a description of how to make puff- paste, but I would strongly recommend housekeepers who live in the neighbour- hood of a good pastrycook, especially if ,the pastrycook is a French one, to always instruct the cook to order the vol-au-vent case as well as pate cases ready made. They will be found to be far cheaper and far better than it is pos- sible to make them at home. It is in filling the pate cases that the pastry- cook invariably fails, not in making the pastry. I have already explained how to make rich brown gravy to be added to financiere ragout. I wull now endea- vour to give directions how to make a bechamel sauce to be added to the ragout a. la Toulouse. Many cooks re- commend instead of bechamel sauce another sauce known as Sauce Supreme. Bechamel sauce is simply a good clear stock mixed with an equal quantity of boiling cream. Sauce supreme is made as follow's :—Take say a pint of rich clear stock and a pint of boiling cream. Instead of adding the stock as it is, it must be allow'ed to boil away on the Are till it is almost reduced to a glaze. The boiling cream is then added. Of course, sauce supreme is richer than ordinary bechamel. Whenever boiling cream is used the cook should always boil two or three bay-leaves in the cream. It is of great importance that the cream should be boiled separately and the stock not added until it has boiled by it- self. For the. sake, however, of those housekeepers w'hose incomes may be said to be limited, I wall give directions how to make very good bechamel sauce without cream. Take a pint of really good stock, and have ready a pint of good milk. The milk must be really good, because if it has been diluted the result will be a failure. Then let the cook boil away the stock till it is re- duced to about one-fourth of its original quantity, and add the boiling milk. In making ragout a la Toulouse I would recommend as follows :—Make bechamel sauce as I have described, by mixing a pint of reduced clear stock with a pint of boiling milk, and then add after- wards a small quantity of cream,. say a quarter of a pint. In making this deli- cious dish it is well worth incurring this extra expense. Ragout, whether finan- cierc or a la Toulouse, should be made hot in an enamelled saucepan, and poured into the empty vol-uu-vent case. BLACKWELL'S p The vol-au-vent case should then be placed in the oven, and as soon as the pastry gets hot through it can be served. Remember that if you were to pour the ragout into the vol-au-vent case cold the whole of the pastry would be burnt and destroyed before the ragout got hot through. Housekeepers, I dare say, wall remember the troubles and trials they have experienced in serving up savoury pies got from the pastrycook’s, through the cook being forgetful of the fact that it takes a long time to warm up a little piece of forcemeat in the centre of a quantity of pastry, and the pates have been sent to table a mass of hot pastry with a small lump of almost cold forcemeat in the middle. A vol- au-vent always looks best w'hen served up on a silver dish. Suppose wre have got a vol-au-vent say eight inches in diameter. This should be placed in the centre of the dish, and a little of the ragout, which the cook should have kept in reserve, can be poured on at the last moment, and the top or lid lightly placed on the whole. The base of the dish can be ornamented with a few' red crayfish and some fried parsley. Finan- ciere ragout can be used as a garnish to a large number of what may be termed high-class dishes. Good cookery-books will contain receipts for making salmi of partridge a la financiere, and also woodcock a. la financiere. In these very delicious dishes two or three woodcocks are larded and braised. They are then glazed and served on the dish leaning against a pyramid of fried bread known as croustard. The financiere ragout is then placed round the base. A large capon is often surmounted with finan- ciere ragout. Pheasants and chickens are also served <1 la financiere. Of course, cooks can always use their own discretion in increasing the financier) in quantity. Small pieces of the white part of rabbits or chickens can be added to the ragout as well as sweetbread. When the ragout is served separate, or used for garnishing, it is, of course, ad- visable to arrange the pieces of black truffle and white cock’s-comb so as to bring them into prominence. Some- times a bottle of financiere ragout can be used in conjunction ■with other things to make small vol-aux-vcnts. When this is done one piece of cock’s- comb and one piece of truffle should be placed in each little vol-au-vcnt, and oneHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 53 vol-au-vent served to each person. The remainder of the contents of the vol-aux- vents can be made of scallops of sweet- bread or scallops of chicken, rabbit, etc., cut up with the mushrooms. Some cooks think it an improvement to add a few stoned olives to the ragout. When the mushrooms are large they should always be chopped up when intended for small vol-aux-vents. Some cooks also add a little chopped ham or chopped tongue. This is, of course, purely a matter of taste. Vol-aux-vents a. la Jinaneikre as well as A la Toulouse are always favourite dishes, whether made in one large vol-au-vcnt or divided into several small ones. I know of no entree which at tables-d’hotes or dinner-parties gives such general satisfaction. I re- member some years ago being at a large table-d'hOte in Paris, and noticing the fact that every one present, at least so far as I could see, accepted vol-au-vent a la Toulouse. The ragout, as sold in bottles, will keep good for years till they are opened. It is the cheapest form of ob- taining the mixed ingredients, and when combined with sweetbreads, fowl, etc., is by no means an expensive dish. Small vol-aux-vents a la Toulouse or a la Jinaneikre, containing truffle, cocks’- combs, etc., can, with the assistance of one small bottle of financiers ragout, as sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, be made at the rate of less than sixpence each, and would be far superior to any pates that could be bought at the pastry- cook’s for twice the money. I would, however, again remind cooks, in making these delicious dishes, of the importance of making sauce, whether brown or white, really good and strong. It is a question of trouble rather than expense. I would suggest the addition of a small quantity of cream or some kind of really good madeira or sherry, and in conclusion would remind them of the good old maxim that it is always a pity to spoil the ship for the sake of a ha’porth of tar. While, however, on the subject of adding wine to soup, I would warn housekeepers against the folly of thinking that any wine is good enough for cooking pur- poses. When sherry is added it should not be a light, pale kind like Amon- tillado, hut good golden-brown sherry. A good sound madeira can now be bought at 38. or 3s. 6<f. a bottle, and is in reality a far cheaper and better wine than any sherry at the same price, and is infinitely superior for cooking pur- poses, especially when making turtle soup. When vol-aux-vents, large or small, have been left, cooks should always be very careful in the way in which they warm them up, as, of course, they will be served for the next day’s dinner. If you warm them up just as they are in the oven the pastry itself must inevitably be burnt up before the inside becomes hot through The cook should therefore proceed as follows:— Empty all the vol-au-vent cases into a small saucepan, place the saucepan on the fire, and heat the contents. Now place the empty cases on a baking-sheet in the oven for three or four minutes. | This will be sufficient to heat the re- j mainder of the sauce that must, of course, be left in the case. Then when I the contents of the saucepan is tho- ! roughly hot fill the cases, and as soon as they are thoroughly hot they can be served. The same remarks apply to all pates, such as oyster pates, lobster pates, etc. FLAGEOLETS.—See Haricot. FOCKINK’S ORANGE CURACOA.—See CURACOA. FOIE GRAS, ENTIRE.—The fat livers of Strasburg geese are now sold not merely in the form of pate de foie gras, but whole, preserved in tins in a rich yellow fat. They are very rich, and by many persons considered very delicious. They can be served by themselves, and are usually considered a breakfast or luncheon dish. They can also be used for making exceedingly nice cold entrees, and in my opinion are better in this form than by themselves. When eaten alone they are very rich, and few per- sons can take more than a very small quantity. A very nice entree can be made from foie gras entire by cutting the foie gras into very thin slices, and serving them placed alternately with slices out of the breast of a cold fowl, or better still, a cold turkey. Indeed, when cold turkey is in the house at Christmas time this is a very nice way of utilising the remains of the turkey. The thin slices of white meat should be placed in the dish with thin slices of foie gras and thin slices of red tongue, i The centre of the dish should be oma-CROSSE AND- BLACKWELL'S 54 mented with a little bright aspic jelly, which is now sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell in -bottles of all sizes, from a quart downwards—an immense boon to cooks in country houses, as it places at their command a little aspic jelly at a moment’s notice. All good cooks know how exceedingly trouble- some aspic jelly is to prepare owing to the great pains that have to be taken in clearing it. For another re- ceipt for foie gras entire 1 am indebted to M. Burlet, the distinguished chef at the Freemasons’ Tavern. Take a cir- cular mould, and cut some strips of truffle in small round pieces so that it will make a star. Place these at the bottom of the mould in a very thin layer of aspic jelly. Next put in another layer of aspic jelly, say half an inch deep, and then place on this a layer of slices of foie gras entire, cut rather thin. Then add another layer of aspic, and so on, till the mould is filled up. When the whole is set the mould can be turned out. The base of the mould can be or- namented with a little more aspic and chopped truffle. This forms a very ele- gant supper dish. This aspic jelly with the foie gras very much helps to take off the extreme richness. Foie gras entire can also be used to add to all sorts of rich game pies, such as Yorkshire pie, but 1 do not myself think such an addi- tion by any means an improvement, as game pies, when properly made, are sufficiently rich in themselves. FOIE GRAS, PATE DE. — Pate de foie gras is made from the livers of fat Strasburg geese, and is mixed with truffle and forcemeat. If any- thing it is somewhat richer than foie gras entire, and has for many years been esteemed a great delicacy. It can be served as it is at breakfast, luncheon, or supper. It can also be used with slices of cold veal or cold turkey as an entree, when aspic jelly should he served with it. Like fine gras entire, it is very rich, and a little of it will go a long way. Under some circumstances it is very useful as a medium for conveying a large quantity of bread. I remember some years back, when I had occasion to accompany Mr. Weston, the great pedestrian, on a tour around the United Kingdom, having so used it. Of course, on a long journey of this kind in some remote villages we could not always depend upon getting a supply of meat, either hot or cold, just when we wanted it. We, however, supplied ourselves with a few tins of pati dc foie gras, and one small tin was always more than ample to supply my three companions and myself with a good meal, with the assistance of a couple of loaves of bread. Pate dc foie gras can be used to assist in making various kinds of very rich forcemeat, which are made from calves’ liver mixed with aromatic spices. (See Cloves, Ground. ) One very nice dish to which a small quantity of foie gras can be added with advantage is Italian fritters. These fritters are usually made by making forcemeat from equal quantities of calves' liver and ham, whicli are fried in the frying-pan with two or three beads of garlic, a small quantity of mushrooms, and some aromatic herbs similar to those given under the head- ing of Cloves, Ground. (See Cloves, Ground.) The whole of this is then rubbed through a afire sieve, and the forcemeat put by for use. This force- meat is used for making all kinds of gan\e pies, such as Yorkshire pies. It can also be used in small quantities to assist in making lark-pie. It is by no means expensive, but extremely rich and deli- cious. It is, in fact, an imitation of pati dc foie gras. Should the cook be making this forcemeat forltalian fritters, a small quantity of genuine foie gras added to it would be a great improvement, by assisting in giving it a rich and at the same tune delicate flavour. Italian fritters are made by taking a small piece of forcemeat, flouring it, and, after dipping it into a stiff batter, throwing it into a frying-pan of smoking hot lara—similar, in fact, to making kromeskies. The Italians are famed for various kinds of fritters, one very common dish in Italy being fritto misto, which is simply a mixture of anything that may come to hand—in fact, a species of Italian resurrection pie. Genuine pate dc foie gras is known by the extreme paleness of the liver. When this is the case there is no doubt about its being genuine, as it would be quite impossible to manufacture pati de foie gras in this country owing to the exist- ence of the Royal Society for Preven- tion of Cruelty to Animals. Indeed, I do not quite like to take leave of this sub- ject without protesting against the abom- inable cruelty to which the unfortunate55 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. geese arc subjected in order to gratify the tastes of a few wealthy epicures. FOREIGN HONEY.—See Honey. FOREIGN LIQUEURS. — Foreign liqueurs of all kinds are imported by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and a description of each will be found under the following headings Angostura Bitters (Dr. Siegert’s),” “ Chartreuse, Green,” ‘‘Chartreuse, Yellow,” “Cherry Brandy,” “ Curacoa, Orange,” “Ab- sinthe (Swiss),” “Gold Water (Dant- zic),” “ Krischenwasser (Swiss),” “Ma- raschino,” “Noyeau, Pink and White,” “ Trappistine, Green,” “ Trappistine, Yellow,” “Milk Punch,” “Orange Bitters,” “ Brandy Bitters,” etc. FOWL, CURRIED, HALFORD'S.—See Curry. FRENCH EEANS, PICKLED—French beans are always a favourite pickle, as will be seen by placing a bottle of mixed pickle before an ordinary person, who will generally be found to fish into the pickle bottle till he brings up a long French bean and a piece of cauliflower. They are very useful in bottles by them- selves, and cooks will find them ex- tremely valuable for many kinds of garnishing. Long pickled French beans make an admirable contrast with red pickled chilies. I will take for instance a very common dish, mayonnaise salad, made with filleted sole or cold boiled salmon, or, indeed, any kind of fish. Take some French pickled beans and some red chilies, cut them in halves, and remove the pips of the chilies, which as a rale are too hot for ordinary persons. Then make a trellis-work of red and green round the base of the salad, over the thick creamy-looking white sauce. The salad can also be further ornamented by sprinkling a little chopped parsley and a little finely cut-up pieces of the skin of the chilies over the top of the salad. I have often before called attention to the pretty effect produced by these little specks of red and green scattered on a white sur- face. The salad can also be ornamented round the base with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters, stoned olives, and filleted anchovies. The green pickled beans go very well with any cold dish, and can also be used for ornamenting various kinds of hashes, especially hashed venison. When used for this purpose it is best to soak them first in boiling water for five or ten minutes. By this means they are made hot, and, in addition, a good deal of the vinegar is extracted from them. Before putting the beans in the hash they should be squeezed dry on a cloth. Red chilies can, of course, be mixed with them, as a great many persons eat chilies with almost every kind of food, and espe- cially -those persons who have lived in very hot climates. I would, however, again remind the cook that for ordinary persons it is best to remove the seeds of the chiMes, which contain the greater part of the heat. French beans are also a very nice accompaniment to cold venison, especially cold venison pasty. FRENCH BEANS, PRESERVED.—See Haricot Vert. FRENCH GOODS, VARIOUS.—A variety of French goods are now im- ported by Messrs. Crosse and Black- well, such as asparagus in tins, dried mixed vegetables, which are used for making julienne soup, etc. ; cocks’- combs preserved in bottles; foie gras entire; Strasburg pie ; mushrooms; pastilles des legumes ; ragout Jinancidre ; rognons de coq; vegetable colouring, red, green, yellow, etc. Great care is taken in the selection of these goods, the very best of each being chosen. FRENCH LENTILS.—See Lentils. FRENCH OLIVES.—See Olives. FRESH HERRINGS, TINNED.—See Herrings. FRUIT SYRUPS.—I have already, under the headings of Apricot Syrup and Red-Currant Syrup, called atten- tion to the importance of making fruit syrups a cheap substitute for the various forms of intoxicating drinks now sold. In summer-time they are very cool and refreshing, as well as wholesome, and can be mixed with plain water or soda- water, of course ice being a great im- provement. A description of the various syrups will be found under the respec- j tive headings of “ Lemon Syrup,”56 CBOSSE AND BLACKWELL'S “ Apricot - Syrup,” “ Black - Currant Syrup,” “Cherry Syrup,” “Capillaire Syrup,” “ Gooseberry Syrup,” “ Orange Syrup,” “Lime Syrup,” “Pineapple Syrup,” “ Raspberry Syrup,” “ Red- Currant Syrup,” and “ Strawberry Syrup.” FRUITS, BOTTLED.—Bottled fruits are a very great convenience to house- keepers when fruit is out of season, and when carefully bottled really there is very little difference between tarts and puddings made from them and those made from fresh fruit. Prancatelli re- commends bottled fruits for making fruit tarts, and in his well-known work entitled “ Francatelli’s Modem Cook,” hereeommends that in malcingtarts from large-stoned fruits the stones should be removed and cracked, and the kernels taken out and added to the tart. In making tarts from small-stoned fruits, such as damsons, cherries, etc., the stones should be allowed to remain. The _ following bottled fruits can be obtained : — Raspberries, gooseberries, plums, cranberries, cherries, apples, cherries and currants, greengages, red currants, black currants, damsons, morella cherries, raspberries and cur- rants, and apricots. FRUITS, CRYSTALLISED.—Crystal- lised fruits are a very nice dish for dessert, and should always be arranged with due regard to colour. Green should as a rale be placed round the base, and the little chinks and crevices can be filled in with crystallised cherries. The fruit should always be arranged in a pyramid form. As in arranging flowers, it is impossible to give directions as to what colours go best together, as this is entirely a matter of taste. The colour green, however, should predominate, and crystallised almonds and green- gages are the best for this purpose. All kinds of crystallised fruits can be had —apricots, lemons, angelica, cherries, oranges, figs, greengages, ginger, pears, eaches, pineapples, raspberries, straw - erries, and a variety of other fruits not so well known. Crystallised fruits can also be used for making cabinet pudding of a very high-class character. Some stars made from sliced green almonds and cherries would be the best for the purpose. FRUITS IK SYRUP.—Fruits are pre- | served in syrup in tins. I think this is by far the nicest way of preserving fruits. Some of the best fruits preserved in J syrups are those known as Poncon’s I Lisbon Fruits, especially his apricots, peaches, and tomatoes. 'The following fruits preserved in syrup in bottles are supplied : — Apricots, peaches, pine- apples, currants, cherries, greengages, plums, pears, strawberries, raspberries, West Indian limes, and mixed fruits. Pineapples are also preserved whole in tins, and they are exceedingly delicious, and very far superior to any pineapples that can be obtained in this country, of course excepting those very expensive luxuries known as hot-house pines, which sometimes fetch as much as two or three guineas apiece. FRUITS, MIXED, IN NOYEAU OR BRANDY.—Mixed fruits are now sup- plied preserved in noyeau or brandy. These mixed fruits consist generally of greengages, apricots, cherries, almonds, green figs, pears, pineapples, and oranges. They form a most delicious dish for dessert. Housekeepers will invariably find that at any dinner-party this dish will as a rale require replen- ishing. It is a curious fact in connec- tion with these preserved fruits, that they vary considerably in their power of absorbing the spirit from the liquor. For instance, the cherries and pine- apple will be found to contain a far greater amount of spirit than the liquor j itself, or any of the other fruits. These fruits of course can be used for making I cabinet puddings, but they are so ex- j ceedingly delicious that I would strongly I recommend housekeepers to serve them as they are, and to let well alone. FRUITS, PONCON’S LISBON.—See Fruits in Syrup. FRUITS, COMPOTES OF, IN JELLY.— CompOtes of mixed fruits are also sup- plied in jelly. They are generally pre- served in round glasses tied over with a bladder. The jelly, when turned out, will form a very delicious sweet, or can be served in a glass dish for dessert. The compOte consists of fruits similar to those preserved in noyeau and brandy. (See Fruits, Mixed, in Noyeau or Brandy.)HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 57 FYZOOL'S CURRY PASTE. — See Curry. GAME PATES.—Game pates are sup- plied in terrines and in tins. Of these those preserved in terrines are of course superior, as it will always be found in all cases of preserved meat, game, etc., that, like wine, the larger the quantity preserved the better it is. A magnum pf port and a pint of port bot- tled at the same time would be far different in quality at the end of ten years. These game pates are exceed- ingly valuable for breakfast, lunch, and supper, or they can be used for making sandwiches, and the remains can be utilised for making rissoles or kromes- kies. I have already, under the head- ing of Chicken-and-Ham Fates, de- scribed how to make kromeskies. The remains of game pates can also be used to assist in a similar manner. As, how- ever, the flavour of game does not always mix well with other meats, the re- mains of game pates had better be used for making Italian fritters. A receipt for making Italian fritters will be found under the heading Pate de foie Gras. One very useful purpose to which game pies in tins can be turned is_ that of a nice picnic delicacy. Pic- nics often take place in the early sum- mer when game is not in season. In hot weather there is always some little risk of meat turning bad, especially after a long journey through the hot sun. Of course all meats preserved in tins are free from any danger on this account. Still, in very hot weather, those who have attended picnics well know that too often there is an un- pleasant warmth about the cold fore- quarter of iamb, etc. I would strongly recommend the trial of one or two of these game pates in terrines, and would advise the manager of the picnic to act as follows. (No picnic, we presume, would be complete without that little hamper with bottles covered with gold and silver paper caps and a large lump of ice.) Take a small pie-dish and place the terrines before they are opened in it, cover them with water, and put a lump of ice in the water. Leave them in this as long as possible, say half an hour or more; then open the tins and serve a portion of the contents quickly to each person. There is something about the rich and yet cool flavour of the game pat6 that will be particularly agreeable on a hot day. Of course these game pates should be served on these occasions after some cold meat, and not before, just as grouse is served at table after haunch of mutton, and not before it. Various other kinds of tins of meat are peculiarly adapted for picnics, owing to their being able to be cooled in the manner I have stated. When ice is easily to be obtained, as it is at most picnics, there is no excuse for having tinned meats otherwise than as cool as they can be obtained in mid-winter. In all kinds of game pies, whether in tins or fresh made, it is of very great im- portance that they should be served perfectly cold. In very hot weather a rich Yorkshire pie would be very far from appetising if, when it is cut, the jelly, which ought to be firm and hard, should be found to have melted, and the fat looking moist and flabby. When game pies are to be served at breakfast or luncheon they should be put in an ice-chest, if there is one in the house, an hour previous to serving them. If not, let them be kept in a cool larder until the last moment before they are wanted. GAME SOUP.—Game soup is now sup- plied in tins, and, like all other kinds of tinned soup, possesses the great ad- vantage of being ready at a few moments’ notice. The tin can be heated by being kept in boiling water for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, and can then be opened and the con- tents poured into a tureen, or the tin can be opened cold and its contents poured into a saucepan and warmed up over the fire. The soup can be served just as it is, but as tastes differ I will describe a few different ways in which the soup can be altered both in appear- ance and flavour. First of all it can be increased in quantity by having a little good stock added to it. It can be made thicker, and also be made richer in colour by the addition of a small quan- tity of brown roux, say a dessert-spoon- ful. This must be added to the soup, and dissolved in it, and the soup allowed to boil, as it will not thicken till after it has boiled. Whenever brown roux is added to any kind of soup cooks should bear in mind that it is made from a mixture of butter and flour, or some- times lard or dripping and flour. Con-CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 58 sequently, after the soup has turned thick, a certain amount of grease in the shape of cither fat or butter will float to the top. The soup will, therefore, require skimming. This is best done when it is simmering by the side of the fire. By simmering 1 mean when it is in that state in which a few bubbles rise occasionally ; it is no use skimming soup when it is boiling furiously. Should you wish to give the soup a still stronger gamey flavour, I would recommend you to add a small pinch of aromatic flavour- ing herbs, a description of the way to make which was given under the head- ing of Clovbs, Ground. A small pinch of these herbs, barely sufficient to cover a threepenny-piece, will be found suffi- cient to bring out the flavour of game in the soup to a very remarkable extent. Another great improvement to game soup is the addition of a small quantity of port wine. All kinds of game are improved by the flavour of port wine— such as roast hare, hare soup, jugged hare, venison, hashed venison, venison soup, etc. As a rule, when port wine is used red-currant jelly can be used with it. Some cooks add a little red- currant jelly to game soup. If the soup is made from hare or venison, un- doubtedly red-currant jelly is a great improvement, but if the game soup is made from grouse, partridge, or phea- sant, I am not sure that the addition of red-currant jelly is desirable. As a rule tinned soups do not contain sufficient pepper. This is as it should be, cayenne pepper not being liked by all. It is easily added, but it is impossible to subtract it. Cooks, therefore, who know the tastes of their masters, should add pep- per accordingly. Cayenne pepper is by far the best to be added to all kinds of game soup. When stock is added to the soup, if the stock be somewhat poor add a small teaspoonful of extract of meat, which will greatly improve the soup both in richness and flavour. GENOA MACARONI.—See Macaroni. GHERKINS, PICKLED.—Pickled gher- kins are very largely used for cooking purposes—far more frequently than as a pickle by themselves. Pickled gherkins are used in making sauce piquant, which is made by chopping up pickled gherkins and French capers, and placing them in a stewpan with a little vinegar, which vinegar is allowed to evaporate before the sauce is added. A receipt for making sauce piquant will be found under the heading of Capers. Another form of usinggherkins is to make gher- kin sauce. This is made by cutting up some gherkins into very thin slices, boiling them in a stewpan with a little vinegar and a little pepper, and allowing them to simmer gently for a short time on the fire. Should the sauce not be liked acid they should be kept simmering on the fire until nearly all the vinegar has evaporated. As gherkins them- selves are acid, as a rule this will be found the best plan. Should the sauce be liked acid, of course they should not be allowed to simmer so long. After they have simmered a small quantity of good brown gravy or a little good strong veal stock should be added, and the whole boiled for some little time over the fire. The sauce should be allowed to simmer for some time, and skimmed, when it can be put by for use. This sauce is to be served hot. Gherkins are used in making what is called Flemish sauce, which is a mixture of butter and flour, onions, parsley, shredded carrot, and a little thyme and mace boiled in i some cream mixed with some good strong stock and a small quantity of Tarragon vinegar. Some gherkins are cut up and put into this sauce. One very useful purpose to which gherkins can be applied is for ornamenting fish, such as filleted soles. Green gherkins will contrast very prettily with some pieces of the skin of red chilies cut the same size. Gherkins cut in thin slices are also a very great improvement to almost all kinds of mayonnaise salads, especially lobster salad and shrimp salad, very often fresh slices of cucum- ber areused for ornamenting mayonnaise salads. Gherkins, cut into very thin slices, produce quite as good an effect so far as ornamenting goes, and to my mind impart a far better flavour, the acid mixing well with the lobster and ren- dering it all the more appetising. Pickled gherkins are also sometimes served whole as appetisers. Some foreigners, and especially Italians, will eat them whole like children in this country eat apples. GERMAN SAUSAGE—See SAUSAGE. GIBLET SOUP.—Giblet soup is sup- plied preserved in tins. The soup cap59 ROUSE KEEPER'S GUIDE. be wanned up by placing the tin in a small saucepan of boiling water, and keeping it on the boil for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, when the tin can be opened and its contents turned out into soup-plates and served. The tin can also be opened when cold and the contents turned into a small saucepan and warmed over the fire. When tinned soups are used, very often they will bear the addition of a little more stock. This is sometimes neces- sary, as one tin is not sufficient of itself for more than two persons. The cook must also add a little more seasoning or flavouring. I would recommend a trial of the following for giblet soup. Open the tin of soup, turn it out into a sauce- pan, and add to it half its quantity of really good stock. Stir in a good-sized dessert-spoonful of brown roux (see Roux, Brown), place it on the fire for a short time, and add a bead of garlic. Add now a small teaspoon- ful of extract of meat and a little cayenne pepper. Let the soup sim- mer gently in the saucepan for five or ten minutes in order to allow it to throw up the fat or butter it now con- tains owing to the presence of the brown roux. While the soup simmers gently the cook should skim it with a spoon, and by this means the fat will be re- moved. Before sending the soup to table add to it a dessert-spoonful of sherry. The bead of garlic should be removed, and not served up in the soup, as it would be an extremely unpleasant thing for any person, especially if he did not like the flavour of garlic, to find a bead of garlic whole in his mouth. GINGER, CRYSTALLISED.—Crystal- lised ginger, though scarcely to be called a fruit, can yet be mixed with crystal- lised fraits, or it can be served as a dessert-dish by itself in a small glass dish. It is one of the few forms of crystallised provisions that may be said to be a gen- tleman’s dish, like olives. There are many persons who after dinner never touch fruit or sweets, but will yet be tempted with a piece of crystallised ginger, or a piece of preserved ginger, or an olive. Crystallised ginger is also a very nice preserved “ fruitv’ for cleans- ing the palate after eating rich or sickly things. GINGER, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of ginger, like other strong essences, must be used with great caution. It is very powerful, and two or three drops are sufficient to flavour half a pint, or even a pint, of fluid. Essence of ginger can be used to make a good teetotal “ pick- me-up.” To make this, squeeze a lemon into a tumbler, add to it a little syrup or a little sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water. Stir it up, and see that the sugar is thoroughly dissolved, and then strain it through a small strainer, to get rid of the pips and pieces of pulp of the lemon. Add to this three or four, or even more, drops of essence of ginger. A wineglassful of this will be found warming, refreshing, and invigorating. Of course it is a non-intoxicant. Essence of ginger can also be used for flavouring puddings, but care should be taken that the essence is mixed with some fluid previous to its being added to the pudding. Were the essence of ginger dropped into the pudding at random, it would be found that one little portion of the pudding would burn the mouth, while the rest would contain very little flavour of ginger at all. In making puddings, therefore, when essence of ginger is used, it should be added to milk or water before the fluid is used in mixing the pudding. When essence of ginger has been used for flavouring puddings, a little grated nutmeg added to it will also improve the flavour. Essence of ginger is also sometimes used for medicinal purposes, and is often very useful in helping to destroy a nasty flavour. I have known persons who take with the greatest difficulty cod- liver oil get rid of the unpleasant taste by rinsing their mouth with a little essence of ginger and water, though I think a still better means of taking the nasty taste out of the mouth is to have a number of small pieces of the yellow rind of lemon-peel cut very thin, and cram them hastily into the mouth and chew them. The lemon is so strong that it instantly takes away every other flavour. GINGER, GROUND.—Ground ginger is very useful for flavouring plain pud- dings. Plain ginger pudding is made with ground ginger, but a nigh-class ginger pudding is made with preserved ginger. A receipt for making this deli- cious pudding will be found under the heading of Ginger, Preserved. Ano CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S plain pudding, however, can be made i as follows. Proceed as in making j an ordinary suet pudding—that is, I take a quarter of a pound of suet, chop it up fine, and mix it with half | a pound of flour. Add a dessert- j spoonful of powdered ginger and a j quarter of a pound of coarse brown sugar. Mix it all well together, moisten it with water, and tie it up in a cloth and boil it in the ordinary way. When ginger pudding is made in a basin and turned out on to a dish, a very nice sweet sauce can be poured round it, made by thickening a quarter or half a pint of water with a little arrowroot. This should be sweetened with brown sugar, ; and a few drops of essence of ginger ' should be added to the sauce. A still j further improvement can be made to j the sauce by adding a tablespoonful of 1 rum. The sauce can also, of course, be | coloured pink with a few drops of i cochineal. Ground ginger is also one of j the ingredients used in making ‘ ‘ beer- ! cup.” It is many years since I have tasted “ beer-cup,” but in my early college days it was constantly served in hall, as men were fined a “ beer-cup ” for bad carving and other offences. As far as I can recollect “beer-cup” is made by adding to say a quart of good strong beer, about half an ounce of | brown sugar, a large piece of darkly- j toasted bread, a small quantity of brown ginger, and some grated nutmeg. This “beer-cup” was served cold, and j handed round with the cheese. Perhaps j a more common form in which ground ginger is served with beer is “ hot spiced ale,” which is made by heating some good strong beer, not too much, and adding a small quantity of sugar, nut- meg, and ground ginger. Another kind of “hot ale” flavoured with nutmeg and ginger is made by adding to hot beer two or three well beaten-up eggs. This is sometimes called “ egg flip.” GINGER, PRESERVED. — Preserved ginger is an extremely nice dessert dish. There is West Indian preserved ginger and China preserved ginger. Pre- served ginger is used occasionally for cooking purposes, and is one of the principal ingredients in that very high- class pudding known as ginger pud- ding. The ingredients of ginger pudding, if wished very rich, are as follows : — Eight ounces of preserved ginger, six ounces of flour, six eggs, six ounces of sugar, six ounces of butter, and a pint of cream. As, however, the cream is very expensive, and, in- deed, sometimes cannot be obtained at all, cooks can substitute for a pint of cream a pint of milk in which a table- spoonful of Swiss milk has been dis- solved. When, however, they use this very good substitute for cream in mak- ing all kinds of puddings they should bear in mind that Swiss milk contains a considerable quantity of sugar, and therefore they should add less sugar to the pudding. Should, therefore, in the receipt I have just given, milk and Swiss milk be used for cream, it will be as well to add four ounces of sugar instead of six. The cream, sugar, and butter should be put into a small stew- pan, and one or two pinches of salt added to it. It should remain there till it begins to simmer, and as soon as it does so take the stew pan off the fire and add the whole of the flour, stirring it up as quickly as possible, so as to avoid getting it lumpy. Then put the stewpan back again on the fire, and con- tinue stirring it for about five or ten minutes, then take it off the fire and mix in the six eggs gradually. Do not attempt to add the eggs to the pudding while it is on the fire, or they will set and curdle. When the eggs have been added, last of all add the ginger, which must loe chopped up into small pieces. Mix the whole now well together, and pour it into a mould previously spread tolerably thickly with butter. This should now be steamed for about a couple of hours, when it will set firm, owing to the eggs. Turn the pudding out on to a disn, and serve with it a good rich custard, to which has been added the syrup from the preserved ginger. This is a very delicious pudding. Erancatelli gives a receipt for making fritters with preserved ginger. These are called “ Diavolini. ” His receipt is as follows : Eight ounces of ground rice, four ounces of sugar, a quart of milk, six ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of essence of ginger, six eggs, and one pound of pre- served ginger. Of course in private houses this can easily be reduced by one half or one quarter. The way to use these ingredients is as follows : Mix the rice, sugar, milk, and butter together. Put it into a saucepan and stir it over the fire until it thickens; then removeG1 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. the saucepan from the fire and work the mixture quite smooth. Put the stew- pan back on the fire, which must be a •slow one, and let it remain there for a short time, say about half an hour. This is generally sufficiently long to cook the rice. It must now be removed from the fire, and the preserved ginger, previously cut into very small, dice-like shapes, added to it, as well as the essence of ginger and six yolks of eggs. Stir the whole over a rather quick fire, until the eggs and the rice are set firmly; then finish the fritters as follows :—Cut them into oblong shapes, dip them into •a light batter, and fry them until they are crisp. Then glaze them with some cinnamon-sugar, and dish them up piled in pyramid form on a napkin. GLAZE. — Glaze is supplied ready- made in tins, or by the pound. In large kitchens, such as those attached to hotels and restaurants, of course a great quantity of the remains of meat, joints, bones, etc., enables the cooks to make home-made glaze ; but in private houses and families, where there is, compara- tively speaking, but little cooking, it will be found far cheaper to buy glaze ready-made. This also saves a great deal of trouble. Glaze is used for masking over all kinds of cold joints, such as ham, turkey, ducks, fowls, pressed beef, etc. As an illustration of the way in which glaze should be used, I will try to describe' how to glaze a tongue. We will suppose the cook has already taken the precaution, after boiling the tongue, to let it get cold in the orthodox shape. This is done by skewering down the tip of the tongue a little way from the end on a board by means of a fork, and fastening the thick cud so that the tongue gets cold in a shape somewhat resembling that of a lady’s boot. When the tongue is quite cold, the skewers, etc., should be re- moved, and the rough parts of the tongue should be trimmed off with a knife, and the tongue placed on a dish for glazing. First dissolve the glaze by placing it in a small cup and standing the cup in boiling water. Next take a brush and simply paint the tongue all oyer with the glaze, to make it look a rich dark mahogany - brown colour. When the glaze is cold, a great deal can be done in the way of ornamenting the tongue afterwards. First round the thick end of the tongue should be placed a frill of paper, either white or coloured. These frills are easily made at home out of a large sheet of foolscap paper, or they can be bought ready- made for the purpose. The surface of the tongue can now be ornamented with a little clarified butter. This process is called piping. The clarified butter should be dissolved and poured into a funnel. The cook should hold the fun- nel by the point, and it should be so constructed that a small or large quan- tity of butter can be allowed to run out at will. Some cooks are extremely skilful in piping, and I would recom- mend those who wish to get on to prac- tice piping when they have nothing else to do. Take, for instance, a small tea- tray, and get a sheet of note-paper and roll it up into the shape of a funnel. The paper should be of rather good quality, a sheet of French note-paper ! would not act. Pour a little melted clarified butter, or oiled butter, into ! this, and now practice on the tea-tray, [ making an ornamental border, or letters, i or writing. At first you will find this j very difficult, but with practice it will I soon become easy. Of course this clari- j fied butter can be used over and over | again by simply scraping it off the tray, i Perhaps the best lesson in piping is to j look at the production of some high- class French cook. There is a shop in Prince’s Street, Soho, which is well worthy of a visit from a cook who wishes to have a lesson in ornamenting dishes I with truffles, aspic jelly, piping, etc. | A tongue can also be ornamented after | being glazed with aspic jelly. Half the ; jelly can be coloured pink with the ; aid of a little cochineal. I have already | described how to ornament with aspic ; jelly under the heading “ Aspic Jelly.” (See Aspic Jelly.) Bright green pars- ley is another nice decoration to be placed round the base of the tongue, in conjunction with aspic jelly and cut lemon. Aspic jelly can also be placed over the tongue itself in alternate bars i of pink and yellow. A very pretty garnish for glazed tongue is simply a flower cut from a turnip, the edges of which have been coloured pink deli- j cately with cochineal so as to resemble • a fresh-blown camellia. This is stuck on to a small stick of wood—the end of an ordinary lucifer match is often used for the purpose—and the other endCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 62 stuck into the tongue. Three or four bay-leaves, which should previously be washed and rubbed over with a little oil, should be added to the flower. Oil- ing a bay-leaf produces a striking re- semblance to the leaf of a camellia. Glaze is also used for ham. On “great occasions, ” such as that of a child’s birthday, a very pretty device can be formed on the ham by means of a little melted clarified butter, such as “ Many happy returns of the day.” House- keepers would themselves do well to try this very simple inexpensive form of ornament. It is so easy, as I have said, to practice on a tea-tray without lvaste, and there is a satisfaction in sending a dish to table that looks really nice. Sometimes at Christmas hams are ornamented with the usual devices, such as “ A Happy Christmas,” or later on, “A Happy New Year.” A pretty addition to the piping is to colour a small quantity of clarified butter pink with a little cochineal. Say, for in- stance, we have got a ham which has been glazed. The edges are surrounded with a border of white piping like the outside edge of a piece of lace. Colour a very little clarified butter pink, place it in a paper funnel, and drop little pink dots on each point of the border. This has a very pretty effect. Sets of tins are sold for the purpose of pip- ing and icing. A complete set, how- ever, is rather expensive. In glazing chickens and turkeys, when the glaze has got cold, a great improvement to the appearance of the dish will be found by filling in the hollow parts, such as by the wings and the spaces between the legs and breast, with deep dark-coloured green double parsley, and some stars of aspic jelly can be placed on the breast, and the base of the dish surrounded with aspic jelly, parsley, cut lemons, etc. A still higher-class ornamental base for cold fowl, cold game, etc., can be made by the addition of plovers’ eggs, some crayfish and truffles. Of course a garnish of tins kind is very ex- pensive. GOLD-WATER, DANTZIC. — This liqueur is famed not only for its delicious flavour, but also for its elegant appear- ance. The little tiny pieces of gold-leaf floating in it always have a very pretty effect. Gold-water can of course be drunk as an ordinary liqueur, but it will also make a very pretty mould of jelly. In making a mould of jelly from gold- water, the cook must first have a small quantity of jelly that will bear the addition of an equal bulk of liqueur, but the jelly must be perfectly bright. The essential feature of the mould of jelly is that the little pieces of gold-leaf should show in the jelly. The gold- water should not be added till the jelly itself is on the point of setting. The liqueur and the jelly should be well mixed, and poured into the mould when it is embedded in ice. It would be as well in making this pretty dish to take the precaution to turn out the mould of jelly as we recommended under the heading “Chartreuse, Yellow” (see Chartreuse, Yellow). In ornament- ing a mould of jelly made from gold- water a very pretty border can be placed round the dish in which the jelly is placed as follows: Get a few artificial gilt flowers, rather small, and place them round the mould of jelly alter- nately with some crystallised green- gages. The gilt flowers match well with the gold-leaf in the jelly, and the dark green will set both off to great advantage. Crystallised almonds will do as well as greengages. GOOSEBERRIES, BOTTLED.—Bottled gooseberries are very useful for making pies, puddings, etc. When fresh goose- berries are not in season, bottled goose- berries can also be used for jnaking fooseberry sauce and gooseberry fool. n malting these, or puddings, from bottled gooseberries, the cook should pour off the liquor, which is not sweet ened. It should first be sweetened, and it will sometimes be found best to boil it with the sugar. Let it get cold, and when it is cold add the gooseberries, cover them over with puff paste, and as soon as the pastry is done the pie is ready. Gooseberry pie can be served hot or cold, but it is far nicer cold. A little cream or custard should be served with it. When cream cannot be ob- tained a very excellent substitute to be served with sweets can be made by adding a dessert-spoonful of Swiss mill: to half a pint of ordinary milk. The Swiss milk will dissolve as well in cold milk as it will in hot. In making goose- berry sauce the gooseberries should be mashed up with a wooden spoon, and then the ivhole should be rubbed through63 housekeeper's guide. a hair sieve. This gooseberry sauce, or, in other words, plain gooseberry pulp, is sometimes served with boiled mack- erel, and also with various kinds of white meat, such as veal, pork, etc. In Germany, and especially in Eastern Germany, gooseberries whole, as well as gooseberry sauce, are served with various kinds of meat, and seem to take the place of apple-sauce in this country. Gooseberry fool is a mixture of gooseberries, sugar, and cream, which has been sent through a hair sieve. This process of sending the gooseberries through a hair sieve, or, to use a more professional term, passing them through a “tammy,” is an important process, as by this means all those objectionable little pips are got lid of. Cream is really so expensive and so scarce, that very often it cannot be obtained. In making gooseberry fool, the substitute for cream I have mentioned — the mixture of Swiss milk and ordinary milk — will do very well. Bottled gooseberries can also be used for mak- ing open tarts. When used for this purpose they should be kept whole, and some of the liquor in which they are preserved should be strained off and sweetened with sugar, and reduced by boiling. It should then have a little gelatine added to it, so that when cold it will be very nearly but not quite a jelly. A few drops of cochineal will colour it pink, or it can be made a bright green with some .of Breton’s colouring. This, when nearly cold, should be poured into the open tart, and the gooseberries themselves stuck upright in it, close together. Some coloured sugar can be shaken over the top, and the border of the pastry ornamented by being brushed over with some syrup coloured brown with a little browning or Parisian essence; then some coarse white sugar and chopped angelica sprinkled on it when in a w et state. GOOSBERRY JAM.—Goosberrv jam is a very favourite jam with children. The jam sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell possesses a remarkably fine colour ; indeed all their jams are noted for their particularly good colour. Probably this is owing to the jam being made in such very large quantities. As I have before said, it is in this respect that manufacturers have an advantage over cooks in private families In making things intended to be eaten, it will always be found that the larger the quantity made the better the result. Take the huge pieces of beef met with at large hotels, weighing twenty or thirty pounds. How far superior is a joint of this kind to the single rib met with in families consisting of two per- sons ! So too in brewing beer, what chance has an ordinary farmer’s wife, who brews probably in the copper, in competing with Bass or Allsopp, whose vats would more than contain the wdiole farmhouse itself? Gooseberry jam is very nice for making tipsy cake. Tipsy cake is a very economical as well as a nice way of using up the remains of stale cakes, such as pound cake, sponge cake, etc. When sponge cakes become dry they are not worth eating. Proceed therefore as follows : Cut the cake into slices, and spread each slice with a layer of gooseberry jam. Almost any other kind of jam, however, will do equally well. Pile the sponge cakes up in a glass dish into such a shape as cir- cumstances will permit. Then soak them in any kind of wine. The wine, if very dry, should be first sweetened with a little sugar. Sherry is a very good wine for this purpose, but for ordinary occasions, and espe- cially when the tipsy cake is in- tended for children, it is equally nice, and far more economical, to use a “children’s” wine, such as rich raisin wine, or still better, cowslip wine—in- deed cowslip wine is quite as good as sherry for making tipsy cake. 1 would ask those who have not tried it to make the experiment. Now pour some custard over the whole, then take some almonds and blanch them (see Almonds, to Blanch), cut them into thin strips, and stick these strips all over the cake, so as to make it resemble a hedgehog or porcupine. Tipsy cake is always a very popular dish with young children, and a very nice plain imitation tipsy cake can be made as follows : Take some stale bread and smear it over with gooseberry jam, or any other kind of jam ; pile it up in a dish, and soak it with some cowslip wine or raisin wine sweetened with a little sugar. Then pour a custard over the whole. A very cheap custard can be made by using half a pint of milk, an egg, a little arrowroot or cornflour, to render it the necessary thickness, and a few drops of64 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S yellow vegetable colouring matter. This will cause the custard to appear as if it had been made from at least four eggs. This is an admirable and cheap dish for children. Goose- berry jam can also be used for putting in open tarts and tartlets. It is of very good consistency, and can be piled up in a way which few other jams will permit. Like damson jam, it is well adapted for making roly-poly pudding. GOOSEBERRY SYRUP. — Gooseberry syrup is one of the most generally- used of all syrups on the Continent, where, under the name of “ Groseille,” it is to be met with in every restaurant, and is probably one of the causes of the crime of intoxication being far less known in France than it is in England. I have before, under the headings of Apricot Syrup and Red - Currant Syrup, called attention to this most important subject. Gooseberry syrup can be drunk mixed with cold water, but it is still nicer when mixed with iced soda-water. In very hot weather it is a great luxury to have a bottle of syrup like gooseberry syrup and some soda-water in a syphon. The syphon should be kept in a small tub of water in which there is some ice. A small glass of syrup and iced soda-water, which can be drawn at a moment’s notice, in large or small quantities, is wonderfully refreshing. Those who feel themselves exposed to the tempta- tion in hot weather of indulging too frequently in that certainly very nice drink, an iced soda and brandy, would find that a syphon kept in ice, with a little syrup, especially pineapple syrup, would tend very greatly to keep them out of temptation. GORGONA ANCHOVIES. — See An- chovies. GREEN COLOURING.—See Vegetable Colouring. GREENGAGES, BOTTLED. — Bottled greengages make a most delicious fruit tart, and, thanks to bottling, this tart can be had at all times of the year, when greengages are not in season. In making greengage tart cooks generally simply place the greengages in a dish, add the juice and sugar, and then cover it with puff paste. I would, however, recommend as follows:—Take the green gages and remove the stones, and then with some nut-crackers crack all the stones and take out the kernels. Pile up all these stoned greengages in the centre of the dish as high as possible, in the shape of a dome. Mix them with the whole of the kernels from the stones and add plenty of sugar to the liquor in which the greengages were bottled. Now cover with some puff paste and bake the pie in the oven. When the crust is done the pie is done, as the greengages are already cooked. Let the pie get cold, and serve it, if pos- sible, with some Devonshire cream, or plain cream or custard. To make fruit pies really good, the endeavour should be to get as much fruit in the pie as possible. By stoning the green- gages, considerably more fruit can be got into the pie. The addition of the kernels to the fruit very materially improves the flavour. To make an or- dinary pie, enough for five or six per- sons, two bottles of fruit will be re- quired. GREENGAGES, CRYSTALLISED. — Crystallised greengages are an important element in all dishes composed of crys- tallised fruits. Owing to their dark- green colour they are generally placed round the base. Crystallised fruits al- ways form a popular dessert dish. They should be piled up in pyramid shape, and the fruits arranged with due regard to colour, and the crevices can be filled in with crystallised cherries. GREENGAGE JAM.—Greengage jam is one of the most useful of all jams made. There are a variety of jams that are red, or pi(im-colour, and so also are there a variety of yellow jams, but greengage jam is the only jam made of a green colour—that colour which is so useful in making all kinds of sweets. In making ornamental open tarts, greengage jam will always enable the cook to vary the colour, so that in mak- ing a dish of tartlets, when a variety of colours are desirable, greengage jam enables the cook to make the dish look pretty. This jam can of course be used for all the purposes in which jam of any description is required ; but owing to its beautiful emerald-green colour, it is chiefly used to contrast with other jams. It can also be eaten by itself,HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. spread on bread. An open tart made with greengage jam is always very pretty. It is of good consistency, and in making tartlets can be piled up high, like gooseberry jam and damson jam. Indeed, a set of tartlets filled with these three jams, owing to the way in which the jam can be piled up into a dome, form a very pretty dish, especially if the cook is sufficiently skilled in making pastry to ornament the jam by placing little threads of pastry over it, like trellis-work, not thicker than pieces of vermicelli. GREENGAGES IN NOYEAU AND BRANDY. — Greengages are preserved in noyeau and brand}7, and thus pre- served they form a most delicious sweet for dessert. I think housekeepers will find that, as a rule, a dish of this de- scription is very popular. True hos- pitality consists in giving our guests what will be eaten, and not simply in providing a table with some ornamental sweets that we know perfectly well beforehand will not be eaten. I would recommend housekeepers, should they supply for dessert a dish of greengages preserved in noyeau or brandy, to have another dish in reserve. They will pro- bably find that the fruit will rapidly dis- appear, till but one greengage is left, not because it is not liked, but from feelings of delicacy and politeness. If they doubt this, let them bring out another dish, which will probably share a simi- lar fate to the first one. It is of course possible to use greengages preserved in noyeau or brandy in making high-class pudding, such as cabinet pudding, but they are so exceedingly delicious in themselves that it is a pity to use them for purposes of cooking. Those who have never tried this delicious sweet would do well to make the experiment. GREENGAGES IN SYRUP. — Green- gages preserved in syrup form a very useful dish, as they can be served at once just as they are. One very nice way of serving greengages preserved in syrup, is simply to turn the greengages and syrup into a glass dish ; then cover the dish with some whipped cream, which can be ornamented with a little pink sugar, or a few hundreds and thousands sprinkled over the top. In making pink sugar, which is so very useful for ornamental purposes, cooks should take some ordinary powdered sugar and sift it; all the little lumps that will not go through the sifter can be thrown into a plate, and a few drops of some red colouring matter can be poured on the plate, and the sugar simply shaken over it. The sugar should not be added to the cream until the last moment, as it is apt to sink into the cream and destroy its frothiness. Greengages in syrup are admirably adapted for the purpose of making open fruit tarts; the syrup can be rendered thick by the addition of a little gelatine or isinglass. The greengages can bo piled up in the syrup and ornamented in the usual way. When Devonshire cream can be obtained, it will be found to go very well in flavour with the greengages. GREEN PEAS, TINNED.—See PEAS. GROS POIS.—See Pois. GROUND SPICES, VARIOUS. — See Cinnamon, Nutmegs, Mace, Cloves, Ginger, Spices Mixed, Pepper, etc. GROUSE SOUP. — Grouse soup can now be obtained in tins. The soup can be warmed up by simply placing the tin in boiling water for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, when it can be opened and the soup served just as it is. Of course, as in all other soups, it is impossible to make any one soup that will suit all palates. When, therefore, the cook knows the taste of the person for whom the soup is intended, it is best to open the tin and turn its contents into a small saucepan ; the soup can then be tasted and altered in flavour ; it can also be increased in quantity by the addition of some good strong stock, and can be improved in richness by the addition of a teaspoonful of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat. When more stock is added, I would recommend the cook to add also a small pinch (about as much as would cover a three enny-piece) of aromatic flavouring erbs—a description of how to make these most important herbs will be found under the heading of “ Ground Cloves ” (see Cloves, Ground)—or add some Herbaceous Mixture. The sou]) can also be made thicker by the addition of a dessert-spoonful of brown roux. (See Roux, Brown.) When brown roux is added, the cook must let the soup, after F66 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S the roux has dissolved, simmer gently for some little time, and constantly skim it while simmering, in order to get riel of the fat or butter that was con- tained in the roux. When, after the brown roux, the flavouring herbs and tho extract of meat have been added, it will be found a very great improvement to add a dessert-spoonful of port wine. Port wine is extremely useful to add to almost all kinds of dark game soup, such as grouse, hare, venison, eta. In tapping port wine, housekeepers should always carefully decant it, and make a rule of leaving the last half glass of wine in the bottle. This should be now poured into another bottle, labelled “Cooking Bottle,” and this cooking bottle should be kept under lock and key, otherwise, though you may be continually adding to it, the result will be that the bottle will be found to possess qualities exactly the converse of the widow’s cruse. When a little cold game of any kind, especially, of course, cold grouse, is left, one tin of grouse soup will be found extremely convenient to add to an equal quantity of stock with the remains of the cold game. These remains should be boiled in the stock till the bones come out perfectly bare and white, and the whole of the meat should be removed from the bones and sent with the soup through a wire sieve, and flavoured in the way we have already mentioned. It is a very com- mon mistake with many cooks in mak- ing hare soup, or grouse soup, to make it too thick. They should remember that hare soup, as well as grouse soup, is not a thick soup. If a proper amount of game is added, and rubbed through a sieve, very little thickening is neces- sary. GUAVA JELLY.—Guava jelly is a very rich but somewhat sickly preserve. Like damson cheese, it is usually served as a dessert dish. It is also recom- mended to be taken for the purpose of soothing irritated throats. It is very rich, and possesses considerable nou- rishing power, but owing to its great sweetness it can only be taken in small quantities. ALFORD’S CURRIED MEATS. —See Curried Meats. HALFORD’S CURRY SAUCE.—See Curry Sauce. HAM - AND - CHICKEN PATE. — See Ciiicken-and-Ham. HAM-AND-VEAL PATE.—See VEAL- axd-Ham. HAM, DEVILLED.—Devilled ham is a species of potted ham, only very hot. It is an excellent dish to be served at breakfast, lunch, or supper, and it is also often used to make sandwiches. There are many restaurants now open in London, especially those known as the Bodega, where a variety of sand- wiches are served for luncheon. Of all the sandwiches thus met with, devilled ham are the most popular. The devilled ham is simply spread between two thin slices of bread, or the sandwiches can be made with thin toast. As a ride it is sufficiently rich in itself not to require the addition of butter, but a very slight layer of butter over the bread is still a decided improvement. Devilled ham can also be served hot on toast after dinner, as a substitute for anchovy on toast, or caviare on toast. When it is served this way the devilled ham should first be heated by being placed in the oven for a short time, and the toast should not be buttered too thickly, as the ham itself is somewhat rich. The hot mixture should be spread on the toast, which must then be cut into “fingers,” about three inches long and an inch wide. Devilled ham is sold in pots, and will keep good for a long time, even after the pot has been opened, owing to the spices and pepper which it contains. HAM, POTTED.—Potted ham is one of the most popular of all potted meats, and it is a standing dish for both break- fast and luncheon. Potted ham, like devilled ham, makes excellent sand- wiches, and can be spread between two thin layers of bread, or the bread may be slightly buttered. Cooks will often find potted ham exceedingly _ useful when they are making rissoles, if there is no ham in the house. For instance, suppose the larder contains the remains of a cold roast fowl; a very nice andHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. ' 07 exoellent dish of rissoles can be made as follows : First of all scrape all the meat from the bones, chop up the bones, and put them on in a little stock to stew for as long a time as possiblo, with an onion sliced up and a bunch of pars- ley. As a very Tittle will be required, the stock may be allowed to boil away. This stock when cold will be a very hard jelly. Next take the mea,t from the fowl, add to it a little piece of onion, a little chopped parsley, and a pinch of thyme, and send the whole through a sausage machine, or press the mixture through a wire sieve with. a wooden spoon. Next add to it half its quantity of potted ham, mix all well up, and then add some warm stock till the whole is almost fluid. Let this mixture get cool and set in a plate so that it is about an inch thick. Next, when it is nearly cold, the cook should take and roll it into balls about the size of a small walnut. They should now be allowed to get cold, and when cold the balls will of course be a hard jelly. When thej' are quite cold take these balls and roll them in flour, dip them into some egg that has been well beaten up, cover them with tine bread- crumbs and put them by in the larder to get dry. After they are thoroughly dried take them out and once more dip them into egg and add more bread- crumbs. These little rissoles will now be covered w'ith a double-coating of egg and breadcrumbs. Next take some smoking hot fat, sufficiently deep to entirely cover the balls when they are thrown into the frying-pan. Remove them carefully by means of a wire basket from the smoking hot fat. This hot fat will instantly set the egg before the inside has time to melt. As soon as the little rissoles are fried a nice brown colour, they should be taken out of the fat and allowed to drain for a short time on a cloth, or, better still, on a piece of blotting paper. They can be served then with a little fried parsley. They are exceedingly delicious owing to their being thoroughly moist inside when cut open. Rissoles are never nice when they are solid ; when they are cut open a sort of rich fluid, or nearly fluid, runs into the plate. This deli- cious little entree is really exceedingly cheap, all that is required is for the cook to take a little trouble. Potted ham can also be used to assist in making all sorts of forcemeats where ham is required, and very often will be found mush more convenient than buying ham on purpose. Cooks do not sufficiently consider how much time and trouble will be saved by always making a prac- tice of having one or two tins of potted ham in the house, which can be used at a moment’s notice for the purposes we have described. HAM, TONGUE, AND CHICKEN SAUSAGE.—See Sausage. HARD’S FARINACEOUS FOOD.—See Infants’ Food. HARICOT BEANS. — White haricot beans are generally in this country used in the dried state. On the Continent they are a very'favourite article of food, and are cooked fresh. It is to be re- gretted that this very cheap food is not more generally used in this country. They are very nice served with meat, and make an excellent garnish for a variety of dishes, or they can be served by themselves, and make a very sub- stantial and satisfying dish on occasions when meat is not eaten. To cook hari- cot beans proceed as follows:—Take say a pint of beans, and put them to soak for about twelve hours in some cold water in which a little tiny piece of soda has been dissolved. Indeed, it will always be best when haricot beans are to be used to put them to soak over- night. In the morning they should be drained off, but the cook should first see if any of the beans are floating on the surface. The bulk of the beans will of course sink, but occasionally two or three may be seen to float on the sur- face, which shows they are bad. The reason they float is that there is a little hollow space inside, which is pro- bably mildewed, and contains air. These beans, therefore, should be thrown away. Next take the bulk of the beans and boil them for about an hour, or till they are quite tender. If the beans are required for occasions on which persons do not take meat, they should be boiled in plain water, but should they be required for ordinary occasions, it is far best to boil them in some kind of coarse stock—as, for in- stance, water that has been used for boiling a piece of bacon or ham, or a leg of pork, or a piece of pickled pork, which is admirably adapted for boilingBLACKWELL'S CROSSE AND 68 ' haricot beans. The fact is that these beans require some kind of fat, and if animal fat be objected to they should be moistened with a piece of butter or a little oil. When the beans are quite tender strain them off, and mix with them either a spoonful of good white sauce, such as bechamel sauce, or, better still, a spoonful of satire supreme. Add a brimming teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley. Mix the whole well together, and serve. As a substitute for white sauce a small piece of butter should be used, in which case the beans should be mixed in the butter and chopped parsley added, as well as the juice of half a lemon and a little pepper and salt. A little lemon juice, though not so much as half a lemon, may also be added when the beans are served with white sauce. One very nice way of serving white beans for those who do not object to Italian cooldng, is to mix them up with about a quar- ter of a pint of good olive oil. Before warming up the beans in oil rub the bottom of the stewpan thoroughly with one or two beads of garlic, then add some chopped parsley and some black pepper. However, of course, many English persons would strongly object both to the oil and the garlic. These beans contain a great deal of nourish- ment, and are probably cheaper than bread. They are very satisfying, and I cannot too strongly recommend them in the cases I have mentioned—namely, those meals at which, for various rea- sons, persons do not take meat. One other very nice way of cooking haricot beans is to boil them with a piece of pickled pork or a piece of bacon in the same water. When the beans are tho- roughly tender they should be taken out and mashed, and after they are mashed a little piece of butter should be added to them, and just a suspi- cion of the flavour of nutmeg, as well as a little chopped parsley. They can be now pressed into a mouid and served with the pickled pork or bacon, some- what similar to peas-pudding. When the beans are served with white sauce, or in oil, or on occasions when they have to be eaten by themselves and not with some kind of meat, the dish should always be ornamented with a few fried crofttons of bread. Cooks do not suffi- ciently value this very cheap rform of garnishing. They have simply'to get a little fat, which must of course be deep enough to entirely cover the bread. Very often stale pieces of bread are wasted in households, though some- times where economy is considered they are reserved for making bread-pudding. But one very useful form indeed in which they can be turned to account is that of making fried crofttons, to be ; served with other dishes, such as hashed meats. The cook should exercise her ingenuity in cutting the stale bread into some fanciful shapes, such as hearts, stars, etc. The odd pieces of bread can be cut up and used for making bread- crumbs, or can be put by for bread- puddings. Take a small deep stewpan —the smaller the better—and fill it to within an inch of the top with lard or dripping, and see that this is really smoking hot. Then throw in the pieces of bread, which in a minute or even less will turn a beautiful bright golden- brown colour. These are far superior to that miserable garnish known to English cooks by the name of “ toasted sippets.” The same fat can be used for the purpose over and over again. It only requires to be occasionally clarified, which is done by mixing it with some boiling water, when all the impurities will sink to the bottom of the pan, and when the fat is cold it can be taken off, and the bottom scraped. The fat is now as good as ever, and will keep good for months. Fried crofttons of bread should always be placed round any kind of vegetable when it is served by itself. HARICOT VERT.—French beans are an exceedingly popular vegetable, but when fresh they are apt to be very expensive. Indeed in many of the London restaurants a shilling is charged for a portion of French beans, as many know to their cost who are fond of haunch of venison, and are too good judges of good living to have veni- son without that necessary accompani- ment, French beans. French beans are now preserved in tins. The beans can be warmed in the tins by simply im- mersing the tin in boiling water for about twenty minutes. Then open the tin and turn out the contents, serving at once, or the tin can be opened as it is and the contents turned into a saucepan and wanned up. The nicest way, how- ever, of serving French beans un- doubtedly is to serve them as a course69 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. by themselves. This is an almost in- variable proceeding abroad, and the custom might be copied in England with considerable advantage. The great fault to my mind in the English style of living is the great mixture of various kinds of meat and vegetables on the plate at once. For instance, it is a very common thing to see a person with a plate before him containing hot roast sirloin of beef, Yorkshire pudding, horseradish, mealy potatoes, and French beans. I do not deny that this is an excellent dinner, but for my own part I would much prefer to have the French beans served up on a dish to be eaten by themselves. Their flavour is deli- cate and delicious, and to mix them with hot gravy, horseradish, Yorkshire pud- ding, etc., is simply to spoil them. French beans when served by them- selves require moistening with some kind of sauce. One of the best sauces to serve with French beans is a good bechamel, but sauce supreme is better. I have described under the heading of financiere ragout the difference between bechamel sauce and sauce supreme, and I have also given receipts for making both ; when, however, these sauces can- not be obtained the French beans should be placed in a small stewpan with about half an ounce or an ounce of butter. They should be tossed lightly and wanned up for some ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. A little chopped parsley should now be added to them, and a email pinch of powdered sugar, a little pepper and salt, and a small quan- tity of lemon juice. The French beans can now be served in a vegetable dish surrounded by small fried croutons of bread (see Haricot Beans). French beans can also be served moistened with a little pure olive oil. The stewpan in which they are warmed up can be rubbed with a slice of onion, or if the flavour is not objected to, a piece of garlic. A little lemon juice should be added before serving, as well as some chopped parsley. French beans are also sometimes served as “ French beans with fine herbs.” Take the beans and strain them, and boil them in a stewpan with a small pat of butter, enough to make the beans thoroughly moist. Now add together a spoonful of finely- chopped parsley that has been previously boiled and about half a teaspoonful or rather more of finely-chopped shalots. Add a little nutmeg, some pepper and salt, and a small quantity of lemon juice. Toss the beans lightly together in a stewpan till they are very hot, and serve them surrounded by some fried crohtons of bread. French beans are generally considered an essential ac- companiment to a haunch of venison. When they are served with any kind of roast meat, such as haunch of venison or roast mutton, they should of course be served quite plain. French beans are very apt to get cold quickly. When, therefore, they are served with any kind of joint, it is always best for the cook to send them up to table in relays— that is, to send up half the beans first, and to keep the remaining half hot downstairs, to be sent up some ten minutes or a quarter of an hour after- wards. There is probably no vegetable which forms so excellent a dish served by itself as French beans, especially when warmed up with a little bechamel sauce and ornamented with fried bread. I would recommend housekeepers to try the experiment of serving various kinds of vegetables as a course by themselves. In England at present we generally serve French artichokes and spinach by themselves, but nearly every other kind of vegetable is almost invariably served with meat. I am sure, if housekeepers were to try a course of vegetables to follow meat, that very soon they would find this method of serving them preferable. Take for instance young new potatoes. How much better are these served by themselves in a little white sauce and a few fresh mint- leaves boiled with them. Take again asparagus, that most delicious vegetable. How is it possible at the same time to appreciate the flavour of the asparagus and a good joint of meat, such as a well- cookea haunch of mutton ? Again, take the case of cauliflower. This is gene- rally served w7ith the meat, and very often melted butter is served with it. Now melted butter and cauliflower surely do not suit on the same plate with roast beef and gravy, or roast mutton and some bright gravy. How far better would it be to serve the cauli- flower alone, and instead of having plain melted butter, to have some kind of good white sauce, which is easily made, if the cook will take care always to have by her a small quantity of good stock. Of course the stock used forCROSSE A ED BLACKWELL'S 70 making every kind of white sauce must not be coloured, nor should extract of meat ever be added to it. Green peas are another instance of a vegetable that is far best served by itself. When the peas are quite young they should be served plain, with no sauce whatever. When, however, they are what may be called middle-aged, they can be mixed with a little good white sauce, or a little plain butter, and in every case a few fresh mint-leaves should be boiled with them. French beans preserved in tins are exceedingly useful, as they can be used .to make a little extra dish at a few moments’ notice, and so great is the perfection to which the art of preserving vegetables has now been brought, that it is very difficult indeed to distinguish the difference between French beans preserved in tins and those fresh gathered. Indeed the tinned vegetables are preferable to all kinds of fresh ones, unless they are very young. Too often French beans are old and stringy, as well as coarse, whereas only the young and tender beans are preserved in tins. HARVEY SAUCE.—Harvey sauce is one of the best known and most popular of sauces. It is sold in bottles, and can be used for chops, steaks, fish, gravies, etc. A small addition of Harvey sauce is a great improvement to hashes and stews of every description, only care should be taken not to put in too much. Many of these sauces, when used with care, are very valuable to assist in im- proving the flavour of a dish, but when added in too large quantities they are often found to drown all other flavours. Harvey sauce is used for making what is known as white ravigotte sauce. This is made by taking say a tablespoonful of chili vinegar, another of tan-agon vinegar, and another of Harvey sauce, putting it into a small stewpan, and let- ting the whole boil away till it is reduced to rather less than half the original quantity. Then add a little good be- chamel sauce, and a tablespoonful of chopped blanched parsley. Harvey sauce is also used in making black butter, and should be added to the “nut-brown butter,” as well as a little mushroom ketchup and vinegar, and a small quantity of chopped capers. HEERING’S P. F. CHERRY BRANDY. —See Cherry Brandt. HENDERSON’S PATENT OPENERS.— See Knives. HERBACEOUS MIXTURE.—Aromatic flavouring herbs are now to be obtained ready mixed in bottles, and are a great convenience to cooks, as the home manufacture of these flavouring herbs is very troublesome. Herbaceous mixture is possessed of a strong aromatic smell, and is used for making forcemeats, and also to impart a gamey flavour to various kinds of dishes, such as lark pudding, game pie, hashed venison, etc. One very common purpose to which these herbs are applied is for making liver forcemea,t. Calves’ liver is cut up and fried, with an equal quantity of ham and a small quantity of mushrooms ; a bead or two of garlic or an onion can be fried with it, and the whole then nibbed through a wire sieve. To this is added a small quantity of herbaceous mixture. This forcemeat is admirably adapted for all kinds of game pies. A very good imitation game pie can be made by using this forcemeat with some rabbit or chicken. In making these pies it is always desirable to have some good strong stock added to it, which stock should be a hard jelly when it is cold. The stock should be poured in after the pie is baked, so that when the pie is cut there will be a jelly touching the crust. In order to do this the jelly must be poured in very gently when it is very nearly cold, and just on the point of setting. In hot weather any kind of game pie, or indeed any pie that contains jelly, should be kept in a cold place till it is required for use. In hot weather the jelly is apt to run, and this gives the pie when cut a very uninviting appearance. A very small quantity of herbaceous mixture may be added to meat puddings and meat pies, but the j cook should be careful not to put in too \ much, as it is apt to impart a peculiar | flavour suggestive of the meat having ' been kept too long if used in anything like excess. For instance, for a good- j sized meat pie, a pinch of herbaceous i mixture, about half of what would cover ' a threepenny-piece, would be ample. One important point in keeping these herbs is to see that the bottle is always very carefully corked down. I would recommend housekeepers, > when it is possible, to get a glass-stoppered bottle, and keep the herbs in this bottle, and IHOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. 71 to place over the stopper an indiarubber cap. By this means the herbaceous mixture will retain its flavour for years. If, however, it is kept in a bottle with an ordinary cork, and especially if the bottle be carelessly corked, it will gra- dually get weaker and weaker, and after a long time be almost useless. When the mixture haB been kept in a bottle with an ordinary cork, after some time cooks will find that they will have to add more, owing to a good deal of the strength having evaporated. The bottle should always be so corked down that when you smell the bottle outside you cannot detect any aroma. If you can detect any aroma it is a sure sign the herbaceous mixture is gradually getting weaker and weaker. HERBS, DRIED.—Dried herbs of all kinds can now be obtained in bottles. In large families, or where there is a good deal of cooking, it is generally best to have the herbs separate. The follow- ing herbs I would recommend to be always kept in the house :—Marjoram, basil, lemon' thyme, mint, tarragon, parsley, and savoury. For small house- holds the most convenient form of keep- ing dried herbs is to have a bottle of what is known as mixed sweet herbs. These mixed herbs generally consist of marjoram, basil, parsley, and a little lemon thyme. They are used for vari- ous purposes, the most common being that of making what is known as veal- stuffing, and for flavouring mock turtle and turtle soup. A very good veal-stuffing can be made as follows:—Chop up a quarter of a pound of suet, a couple of ounces of lean ham, and a good brim- ming teaspoonful of parsley, add a dessert-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a very slight quantity of cayenne pepper and nutmeg, as well as say five ounces of bread-crumbs and a couple of eggs. In addition to this many cooks add a small quantity of lemon-peel. Various directions will be found in cookery-books for the addition of lemon- peel to veal-stuffing. These directions vary considerably from the quantity I have named—from the rind of half a lemon down to some thin strips of lemon-peel, which is of course a matter of taste, but I would warn cooks against adding too much lemon. There is no doubt that the general mistake made is in putting in too much rather than too little lemon - peel. When chopped, lemon-peel is used as a flavour for force- meat. I dare say many persons can re- call how, after dining off a joint of veal with stuffing, or roast turkey, or boiled turkey with veal - stuffing, for many hours after their dinner they have still tasted the stuffing; indeed, in somecascs, I have known persons who complained of tasting the stuffing on the following day. When this is the case it is obvious that something is not as it should be. I think the fault will be found in the fact that too much lemon has been added to the stuffing. When persons are sensitive as to the flavour of lemon, it is best to make the stuffing without lemon-peel, and the lemon-peel, when it is used, must be chopped very fine. Cooks, when they chop suet, know the advantage of having a little flour, which prevents the suet from sticking to the knife. In chopping lemon-peel for making stuffing it is desirable to add a little salt, which will enable the cook to chop it fine with much greater facility, or the peel can be grated on a grater. It is also best when making veal-stuffing to mince or chop the lemon-peel by itself, and not to let it take its chance of being chopped with the other ingre- dients. I may here add thafy when lemon-peel is chopped for the purpose of making sweets, some powdered sugar can be used instead of salt to facilitate the chopping. In giving this receipt for making veal-stuffing I have men- tioned a dessert-spoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Probably were the herbs quite fresh bottled this would be rather ex- cessive, but practically cooks will find that as the herbs are kept longer they must allow rather more. When these mixed herbs are used for that very use- ful purpose of flavouring mock-turtle or real turtle soup, it is very important that the cook should put in enough, and at the same time not too much. This en- tails considerable difficulty if the herbs are simply boiled in the soup in the ordinary way, and the soup then strained off. It is often impossible for the cook to tell exactly what state the herbs are in. If they have been freshly bottled they are very much stronger than if they have been kept corked up for a long time. In flavouring any kind of turtle soup, whether from fresh meat or dried meat, the cook should act as follows :—Take a good quantity of fla-72 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S vouring herbs, more than she knows will be necessary, tie these up in a piece of muslin and tie a string to it. The herbs can then be boiled in the soup. The cook should then exercise her sense of taste and smell, and when she believes that sufficient of the flavouring herbs has got into the soup she should take out the muslin bag. Another very ood method of flavouring soup with avouring herbs, a method that is prac- tised when soups are made in large quantities, is to take say a pint of the soup and add to it a large quantity of these herbs. The herbs are boiled In this quantity of soup in a small stewpan, the lid of which fits very tight, as the flavour is apt to evaporate with the steam. After the herbs have been boiled thoroughly for a considerable time the cook should take the soup off the fire and allow it to get nearly cold. Were it to get quite cold it would pro- bably be a jelly. Then strain through a sieve, pressing the herbs so as to ex- tract all the liquid possible. This liquid can now be added to the soup gradually, and the cook should taste the soup to see when it has had sufficient flavour imparted to it. By this means the exact amount of flavour required is easily obtained. Those who have been fortunate enough to taste real turtle soup made by Mons. Burlet, of the Freemasons’ Tavern, will remember ■with what absolute perfection the various flavours are blended in his un- equalled soup. He practises the latter method I have named for flavouring his soup. Flavouring, of course, depends a great deal upon the refined sense of taste as well as considerable patience in mak- ing the soup. When cooks mix their own herbs, either for flavouring soups or making veal-stuffing, at least one- third of the whole quantity should con- sist of sweet basil. When, however, they are mixing herbs for veal-stuffing or pork sausages, marjoram should rather predominate. Care also should be taken in adding both lemon thyme and ordinary thyme not to put in too much of these herbs, or they will en- tirely overthrow the flavour of all the rest. Some cooks, in mixing herbs for flavouring turtle soup, or for making a rich sauce for calves’ head en tortue, add a small quantity of the herb called pennyroyal. The flavour of pennyroyal is somewhat similar to peppermint, and of course when it is added it must only be added in small quantities. Half a teaspoonful of dried pennyroyal would be quite enough for half a gallon of soup. The late M. Francatelli recommended the use of pennyroyal, but I do not think the majority of cooks as a rule use it. In any case it must be used ■with extreme caution. HERRINGS A LA SARDINES.—Her- rings can now be obtained, preserved in oil, in tins, like sardines, and those who are fond of fish preserved in oil would do well to make a trial of these herrings. Herrings preserved in oil can be eaten as they are, and form a very excellent breakfast-dish. A little lemon-juice and cayenne pepper added to them will be found a great improvement. The her- rings can also be quickly served hot as a curry when preserved in oil. To do this, open the tin and pour out all the oil into a frying-pan, then take a dessert-spoon- ful or less of Crosse and Blackwell’s curry-powder, mix it with a little water, and add it to the oil in the frying-pan. Next take a small quantity of cornflour or arrowroot and mix this also with a little water and some oil. Add gradually, spoonful by spoonful, some of the mix- ture of cornflour and water. When the mixture gets sufficiently thick the curry sauce is made, and the herrings can be warmed up in this curry sauce, and when they are hot through they can be served. If possible, warm up also in the sauce four or five bay-leaves, whole. Herrings preserved in oil curried in this way form an excellent breakfast-dish, and of course boiled rice should accom- pany them. The rice should be put in the dish first, and in it a sort of well formed, in which the herrings should be placed and the sauce poured over them. HERRINGS, FRESH.—Fresh herrings are now to be obtained preserved in tins. There are various ways of serving them. First, they can be served in a little vine- gar and water, in which should be placed a few peppercorns. In this form they make a very nice dish for breakfast or luncheon. When preserved whole they can be warmed up and served with mustard sauce. Mustard sauce is very simply made by adding two or three good-sized spoonfuls of made mustard to a small quantity of melted butter—or, as it should be called, butterHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 73 sauce. I have before had occasion to remind cooks that the too common fault in making butter sauce is making an excessively large quantity, and at the same time necessarily making it very poor. A quarter of a pint of butter sauce would be ample for a tin of her- rings. And it would be best before making it to measure out this quantity in a glass. Really good butter sauce is of course an expensive luxury when made from butter at its present price. In making butter sauce only just suffi- cient flour should be added to slightly thicken the water, whiclr is generally better for the purpose than milk. Then the butter should be added, piece by piece, gradually, and dissolved in the sauce. HERRINGS, KIPPERED.—It is per- haps a too common mistake to imagine that kippered herrings, as well as bloaters, will keep for an indefinitely long period. Probably few persons are aware of the fact that to obtain either a bloater or kippered herring in perfec- tion it should be eaten the same day that it is cured. Such, however, is the case. Those who cannot obtain kippered herrings fresh-cured would do well to try those preserved in tins. Kippered herrings, if kept long in the ordinary way, undergo to a certain extent a slight putrefaction. Many will know that kippered herrings or bloaters have a very strong, rank smell, and that sometimes the bloater gets into that state which may be described as doubt- ful. Of course, the kippered herrings preserved in tins have all the advantages of meat preserved in tins. The process of putrefaction is at once instantly stopped owing to the exclusion of the air. Kippered herrings preserved in tins are of course tinned directly they are cured, consequently when the tin is opened they possess all the advantages that would be found in herrings which had been cured the same morning. In cooking kippered herrings, they are un- doubtedly best done on a gridiron, and as soon as they are hot through they are sufficiently cooked. Cooks should, however, always moisten the surface with a small piece of butter. HICKSON’S KING OF OUDE SAUCE. —See Code Sauce. HONEY.—Honey is generally a very popular sweet with children. It dif- fers considerably and varies very much according to the locality in which it is made by the bees. Perhaps the most favourite is that known as the Narbonne honey, which has a very peculiar, rich, scented flavour, owing to the flowers which grow in the neigh- bourhood of Narbonne. This honey, which is sold in pound jars and glasses, is rather more expensive than the ordi- nary kinds. In buying honey care should be taken to purchase it of some well-known firm. There are various kinds of honey sold which are decidedly injurious, although perfectly genuine In certain neighbourhoods, in which unhealthy and poisonous flowers grow, the honey made by the bees is at times absolutely poisonous. Honey is not often used very much in cookery. The only receipt that I can call to mind in a cookery book in which honey is used is in making sauce for apricot charlotte, a receipt for which will be found under Apricot. A very delicious “liqueur” can be made with the assistance of some honey, known as “ Athol brose.” There is a well-known hotel in Scotland, at Blair Athol, where visitors are generally entertained with a small glass of this “ liqueur.” I believe I am right in say- ing that Her Majesty the Queen, when in the Highlands, accepted of what I think most persons must call a very nice mixture. It is made as follows : Take equal parts of Scotch whisky, honey, and cream, and mix them well together. The receipt is a very simple one, and a cook of comparatively no experience would have no difficulty in carrying out the directions here given. In buying honey, one very good test of its genuineness is the smell. When honey is made in any district sur- rounded by pine forests it will nearly always be found to contain an ingre- dient which is virtually turpentine, which the bees have extracted from the pines. A similar instance of the way in which pine forests affect the flavour of animals living in their neighbourhood is the case of the Norwegian grouse or ptarmigan. The birds that feed in the open grounds will be found quite equal in flavour to an English grouse. When, however, they, come from the neigh- bourhood of pine forests, owing to the birds having picked the buds off theCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 74 pine trees, they are worthless, and unfit for human food, on account of the very strong flavour of turpentine they con- tain, which no amount of cooking can do away with. HORSERADISH, PICKLED.—Pickled horseradish is a very nice accompani- ment to cold roast beef, and indeed to cold beef of every description. One method of using it is to make it into horseradish sauce. Ordinary horse- radish sauce is made as follows : Take a stick of horseradish and grate it till the whole stick is reduced to a pulp. This is then mixed with a small quan- tity of cream, vinegar, mustard, and brown sugar. A very excellent substi- tute for cream, however, oan always be made by adding a small quantity of Swiss milk to some ordinary milk. The Swiss milk contains a large amount of sugar. When, therefore, it is used for making horseradish sauce, the sugar should be omitted altogether or only a very small quantity added. Pickled horseradish can be chopped up very fine and used instead of grated horseradish. Of course when pickled horseradish is used to make sauce/ less vinegar must be used. If the horseradish has been in pickle some time it will be found some- times that no vinegar need bo added at all. HODGE-PODGE SOUP.—Good hodge- podge soup is really very good Scotch broth, to which has been added some very young green peas. This soup can now be obtained in tins and can be served just as it is after being warmed up. The tin can be placed in boiling water and kept there for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, then opened and the contents served, or the tin can be opened at, once and its contents warmed up in a saucepan. One small tin is generally ample for two people, and it is very convenient to have a few tins in the house, as the soup can then be made ready at a few moments’ notice. HUMMEL’S STRASBOURG PIES.— See Strasbourg Pies. HUNG BEEF SAUSAGE.-See Sau- sage. MPERIAL PICKLES.-Im- perial pickles are a sort of compromise between ordi- nary English pickles and Indian pickles. The dis- tinctive feature of Indian pickles is heat — the base really being pep- per, cayenne, mustard, or chib ; and the distinctive feature of English pickles is that they are not hot, but rather acid. The imperial pickles are therefore, to a certain extent, a mix- ture of the two, and are by many pre- ferred to either. Of course tha most common use for these pickles is to be eaten with cold meat. Still they can be used for a variety of purposes. A por- tion of the contents of a bottle can be made hot in a little thick brown gravy, and served with a dish of mutton cut- lets, or grilled salmon. Grilled salmon served up in this kind of pickle is always a favourite dish at breakfast. IMPERIAL SAUCE.—Imperial sauce is a moderately warm sauce, and can be eaten with chops, steaks, or cold meat, and can be used for flavouring gravies, hashes, steaks, etc. INDIAN PICKLES. — The. distinctive feature of all Indian pickles is heat. It is a somewhat curious fact that hot cli- mates create a very great craving for hot food. We have Indian chutney, Indian curry, Indian mulligatawny, Indian pickles, etc. ; and whenever the word “Indian” is used, it is synony- mous with some hot spices or herbs. Indian pickles are very hot, and those who like hot tilings will find that a small quantity of these pickles chopped up wiH be a very nice accompaniment for a breakfast dish, such as grilled sal- mon, or indeed, any kind of grilled meat. They can also be served warmed up in a little brown gravy, with mutton cutlets, pork chops, veal cutlets, etc.; and they can also be used for flavouring | hashes of any description as well as I stews. INDIAN GINGER.—See Ginger. INDIAN LIMES.—See Limes. INDIAN MANGOES.—See Mangoes. INDIAN MANGO CHUTNEY. - Seo Chutnet.HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 75 INDIAN TAMARINDS. — See BINDS. INFANTS’ FOOD, VARIOUS.—A va- riety of food is now sold under the general name of Infants’ Food. There is Hardjs Farinaceous Food, Savory and Moore’s Infants’ Food, and also that special one which is sold under the name of “ In- fants’ ” food. Under this heading may be included Robinson’s prepared groats and barley, Robinson’s Emden groats, and sago hour, sold in tins and packets, semolina, etc. There is of course no doubt that for very young infants the proper food is that which Nature has provided for them. When through in- ability, or, alas ! as is too often the case, the unwillingness of the mother to sup- ly her child with that food which it is er duty to give it, there are various substitutes, the chief, of course, and the best of which is milk. Next to Na- ture’s own food, perhaps, the milk of the donkey is, the best, and next to that is the milk of the goat. The farinaceous foods we have mentioned are better adapted for infants eight or nine months old than for very young children. Pa- rents would all do well to bear in mind the very great importance of, under all circumstances, when it is possible, let- ting young infants have their natural food. Very often their constitutions for life are affected, either for good or evil, by the food they receive during the first eight or nine months of their exist- ence. The foods we have mentioned are, however, exceedingly valuable at the period when children are weaned. Savory and Moore’s infants’ food is a species of very pure starch, which has been converted into a more digestible food by means of the addition of malt. Hard’s food, again, is pure starch ; sago is obtained from the pith of the sago palm-tree ; while semolina is a very light food formed from the purest wheat flour. As a rule, all these may be said to be better adapted for feeding young chil- dren than for very young infants. With regard to Robinson’s patent groats, and Emden groats, they are really ground barley, and are possessed of this very great advantage, that by means of their assistance a basin of gruel or barley- water can be made in a few minutes. When, however, time is of no object, it is well to bear in mind that barley-water made from pearl barley is far preferable to that made from ground barley or groats. In order to make barley-water properly, pearl-barley is necessary, and m making it great care should be taken to thoroughly cleanse the bar- ley from all impurities. There are pro- bably many persons who, at one period of their life, have been, owing to sick- ness, compelled to drink _ that by no , means unpleasant preparation known as barley-water, and have noticed, when it | has been poured out into a glass and I allowed to stand by the bedside, that at | the bottom of the tumbler they find a I sort of black sediment, which is simply dirt. Now when the system is in a very delicate state, and this barley is the only nourishment which patients take, this sediment is very objectionable. This sediment in barley-water is owing to the ignorance, and often to the care- lessness of the cook. In making barley- water cooks should always proceed as follows: Take some pearl-barley, and wash it well in two or three waters. Then throw it into some boiling water and let it boil for five or ten minute's. Strain it through a sieve, and throw away this first water in which it was boiled. This water, of course, contains a trifling quantity of nourishment, but it is simply from the outer coating of the pearl-barley mixed with the dirt. The barley will now be thoroughly clean. Place it in a small saucepan, with some pure water, and let it simmer gently for several hours. Then strain the pearl- ; barley off, and pour the liquor into a I jug. It should be stirred up with a ! spoon before being poured out for the | patient, as the barley will settle, and I the top will be perfectly clear while the bottom will be thick. There are a variety of ways of flavouring barley water, the best being a little sugar and some Very thin strips of the rind of a t lemon—only the yellow portion of the | lemon-peel should be used. These strips | should be cut so that there is no white at all on the inner side. Of course the modes of flavouring barley-water arc almost infinite—orange peei, cinnamon, nutmeg, wine, etc., as the doctor may order. Groats are exceedingly useful for making that well-known compound, gruel, which is probably one of the best cures for that most incurable of com- plaints—a bad cold. There is an old ; saying, and a perfectly true one, that a i cold will always cure itself. However, Tama- iCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 76 there is no harm in “assisting nature.” When gruel is taken for a cola, it is best to take it in large quantities, and also best for the patient to lie in bed. Per- haps one of the best remedies is to lie in bed all day long and take plenty of hot gruel. A huge basin of gruel—an ordi- nary slop-basin—is about the quantity. This huge quantity of warm fluid tends greatly to promote perspiration, which assists to get rid of the cold. Gruel can be flavoured in a variety of ways. Brown ^ sugar, or, still better, a large tablespoonful of treacle, can be dis- solved in it. A very nice flavouring, also, for gruel is sugar, lemon-peel, and a small quantity of rum. When persons having a bad cold are ordinarily in the habit of taking a considerable amount of stimulant, and probably require a certain quantity, a large jorum of hot gruel flavoured with rum is one of the best things they can take. Persons, however, who are not accustomed to take much stimulant had better avoid rum, as it is apt to produce nausea and headache. Grnel can also be flavoured with any of the numerous fruit syrups. A list of these fruit syrups will be found under the heading, “Fruit Syrup, Various ” (see Fecit Syrup, Various). Semolina is a very light, digestible form of invalid food, and makes a most deli- cate and delicious pudding. Receipts for making semolina pudding will be found in that excellent book, Cassell’s “ Dictionary of Cookery.” IRISH SALMON.—See Salmon. ITALIAN PASTE.—Under the general heading “Italian paste” may be in- cluded nearly every kind of prepared food sent from Italy, made from pure wheat flour, and sent over under various names, such as macaroni, vermicelli, Italian paste, Cagliari paste, etc. These pastes vary slightly in quality. The small Sicilian wheat, which is very hard, and which is considered to contain slightly more albumen than wheat grown in other and colder countries, is consi- dered the best for the purpose of manu- facturing these pastes. Another form of paste is the Genoese paste. All these are made from the very best wheat flour, but in Italy this Italian paste is manufactured all over the country, and nearly every town has its own little manufactory, the process of manu- facture varying but slightly. With regard to macaroni, receipts will be found for using macaroni under its own heading. (See Macaroni.) So. too, with vermicelli. Receipts for using it will be found under the heading ‘ ‘ Vermi- celli ”— (see Vermicelli) — and also sparghetti (see Sparghetti). Italian paste properly so called is made from pure wheaten flour, and is im- ported into this country in large quan- tities. It is used generally to add to soups, etc. Cagliari paste is a mixture of a variety of shapes, and can be bought in 51b. boxes. Italian paste is also sold in the shape of letters. Very often the paste is made in certain letters for cer- tain occasions. I remember a banquet at St. Peter’s College, Cambridge, given in honour of the marriage of the Prince of Wales, which His Royal Highness attended. The cook, M. Bossard, ob- tained a quantity of Italian paste in the shape of Prince of Wales’s feathers, which was served up in excellent soup. Cooks should always remember in using Italian paste that they must not let the soup get cloudy. The outside of the aste contains really a very little fine our, and all cooks know full well that flour will make the best stock cloudy. Let them therefore proceed as follows : The soup must be made by itself, and must be perfectly bright. The paste should then be first washed in cold water, and then boiled for a certain time in ordinary boiling water till it is tender. If this water is at all cloudy it will be best to strain it off and let the paste boil again in another water for a short period. When the cook sees that the water ceases to get in the least degree cloudy she can throw the paste into the boiling soup and serve. I may here say that the same precaution, of course, should be taken with regard to boiling macaroni, vermicelli, etc. There is perhaps nothing so annoying to a good cook, who has taken great pains and trouble to clear the soup for some great occasion by means of white-of- egg or isinglass, after straining it through arjelly-bag, to find, after put- ting in Italian paste without taking the precaution to thoroughly cleanse it, that she has rendered the whole cloudy, for it will then be extremely difficult to clear it a second time. It is customary when soup is made with Italian paste to hand round with it Parmesan cheese. Parmesan cheese can now be obtained in77 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. bottles, grated ready for use. A small quantity of Parmesan cheese only is re- quired to be added to the soup. Italian cheese is far superior to every other kind of grated cheese. Some cookery-books recommend using up the remains or what may be called the fag ends of ordi- nary cheese, grated, to be used instead of Parmesan. For many purposes un- doubtedly this is very good. But when cheese is handed with really first-class soup I would strongly recommend all persons in possession of any palate to either take Parmesan or none. The ordinary grated English cheese will entirely destroy the delicate flavour which ought to be the characteristic of good soups. Parmesan cheese, on the other hand, slightly assists if anything, instead of destroying, the flavour. Another mistake, too, when Parmesan cheese is handed with soup is taking too large a quantity. Many seem to forget the good old maxim that it is quite pos- sible to have too much of a good thing. Only a little should be taken with good soup. Italian paste can be used for making various kinds of puddings, but I do not recommend it. It is far superior to all other pastes I know of, though several attempts have been made to compete with it. There is the French paste, a manufactory for making which exists at Grenoble, in France ; but, owing to some cause or other, there is no doubt that French paste is far inferior in quality to Italian. Whether this inferiority is owing to the poorer quality of the wheat or to ignorance in the mauufacture I am unable to say. Probably in all high-class manufactures a great deal depends on secrets that have been handed down from father to son and from mother to daughter for many generations. There are many countries where the finest grapes can be obtained, but no country has yet been able to compete with France in making claret and burgundy. So, too, there are many countries in Europe that grow the best wheat, but at present they cannot compete with Italy in making paste. One of the nicest soups to be obtained in Italy is known under the name of ravioli, which is a species of macaroni made in Genoa. Housekeepers who have not hitherto been in the habit of using Italian paste for soup would do well to make a trial. Owing to the extreme purity of the wheat it contains a very great amount of nourishment. I have avoided going into the question of price, but I know that there is a con- siderable prejudice against the use of Italian paste, and tnat some house- keepers regard it as an expensive luxury. This is entirely owing to ignorance, and I would ask all housekeepers to inquire of their grocers the price of Italian paste, and when they hear how cheaply it may be obtained, and how very superior it is as an article of nourish- ment, I venture to say that many will give it a trial. A little clear, bright stock, made from extract of meat, will form a soup as bright as sherry, and this will be an excellent medium for conveying that most nourishing sub- stance, Italian paste. AMAICA GINGER.-See Gin- gee. JAMS.—There is a good IL1 old saying that comparisons are odious, and I shall not here enter into the much-debated ques- tion as to whether home-made jam is better than manufactured jam. Perhaps much can be said on both sides. There is one great advantage in home-made jam, that people often fancy what they make them- selves. There is a satisfaction in knowing the process that the fruit has undergone, but there is no doubt that manufacturers of jam on a large scale possess enormous advantage over private individuals. There is something homely in the sound of home-brewed ale, but what housewife can compete in this respect with Messrs. Bass or Allsopp? Of course jam manufactured in limited quantities possesses many advantages, but it is far easier to mix a large quantity than a small. The chemist who mixes up a prescription of a pint will probably carry out the doctor’s instructions to the very letter. If, however, he has to manufacture one pill or ten drops, there is far greater difficulty in being accurate. The chief advantage of manufactured jam over home-made jam is that it is unvarying in taste, colour, and sweetness. Most housekeepers will know that each year their jam varies. They perhaps put in exactly the same quantity of sugar, but owing to the variation of the sweetnessCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 78 or acidity of the fruit itself in different years, one yeax-’s jam will vary consider- ably from another. The fauit of course j is not the cook’s, who will have put in exactly the same quantity of sugar, j We all know that we can obtain from Messrs. Bass or Allsopp a cask of ale ; which year after year will not vary in the slightest degree in flavour. We get absolutely the saxne. So, too, with Crosse and Blackwell’s jams. The great advantage is that we can thoroughly depend on getting exactly j the same article year by year. It will j I also be noticed how very much these ; jams excel those of every other manu- i facturer in flavour and in colour. 1 J cannot enter into the seci’ets of the manufacture of these jams, but I am under the impression that this perfection of colour is simply owing to its being made in such huge quantities. Where sugar is added by the ton, a degree of ^ certainty can be obtained that cannot be approached when it is added by the ! tablespoonful. It will also be found that the jam supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, owing to the per- fection to which it has been brought by boiling, etc., possesses the very valuable quality of keeping longer than home- i made jam. Should any housekeepers doubt this, let them get a pot of Crosse and Blackwell’s jam and place it side by side with one of their own, and let the two stand ; as a rule it will be found that Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s will a long way outlast the other in, so to speak, staying power. Of the various jams which are supplied by them, if it be not invidious to speak of one kiixd, I think the best is api’icot. This apricot jam is undoubtedly entitled to rank as a king amongst sweets. It is specially valuable for the purpose of making sweet omelets or to be placed round white puddings, such as cornflour. In addition to this beautiful aixd delicious jam, they supply peach, cherry, pine- apple, raspberry, strawberry, red- currant, damson, black-currant, green- gage, blackberry, plum, and gooseberry jams. These jams are supplied in fluted pots containing a pound, glasses con- taining two pounds, jars containing three and four pounds, and it is also sold by the hundredweight. In addi- tion to these they supply what is known as household jam, which is a mixture of fresh fruits preserved with sugar. Tills household jam is supplied in two- pound glasses, three and four-pound tins, four-pound jax-s, and seven and fourteen-pound tins or jars, as well as by the hundredweight, thus suiting the requirements of all classes. The latter is probably the most economical way of purchasing jams, and is suited for hotel- keepers, clubs, or very large households. As I befoi-e remarked, there is no doubt that all kinds of fruit are much better when bottled or preserved in large quan- tities than in small; just as the magnum of port will beat the pint, so will the fourteen-pound jar beat the ordinary jam-pot. JARS, FANCY, FOR TINNED MEATS.— Many housekeepers have, perhaps, ex- perienced difficulty in deciding as to the best method of serving tinned meats. Take for instance the case of sardines. Sometimes the tin is opened and brought to the table on a plate, which, owing to the possibility of a little of the oil being spilled, is essential; but this is, to say trie least, an inartistic method. So with a small quantity of preserved meat, housekeepers will bi-ing it on to the table in a plate. I would recommend those who liave any difficulty in this respect to go to their grocers and ask for some of the fancy jars supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell for the purpose of serving tinned meats. A sight of the jars themselves will be far better than any written description. JELLIES. — See various • headings :-r- I Apple, Orange, Lemon, Red-Cur- rant, Aspic, Champagne, Calves’- feet, Noteau, Madeira, Punch, Port, Vanilla, etc. JOHN BULL SAUCE.—John Bull sauce is a clear bright sauce, somewhat similar to Harvey sauce. It is intended to be used with steaks, chops, game, hashes, made dishes, etc. It also imparts zest to roast fowl, fricasseed rabbit, and fish of all kinds. It is distinctly acid in flavour, and would be very popular with those who are fond of English pickles. Those persons, however, who liappen to be fond of Indian pickle would not be so well satisfied. JULIENNE, DRIED. — See Vegeta- bles, Dried, Mixed. JULIENNE SOUP.—Julienne soup is one of the many soups that now can be70 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. obtained in tins. Many persons do not know the difference between Julienne soup and spring soup. Both are similar, being a mixture of early vegetables cut up and served in good clear stock. In both, perhaps, the stock is the same, but in making Julienne soup and spring soup the following distinct difference is j made. In the case of spring soup fresh vegetables are put into the soup as they arc, in their natural state, and boiled. In making Julienne soup the vegetables are first stewed till they are tender in butter. This gives the Julienne soup a distinctive flavour which makes it differ from spring soup. Which of the two is best is purely a matter of taste. When very young vegetables can be obtained— that is in the. early spring—spring soup is undoubtedly the best. When, how- ever, at other times in the year, young vegetables cannot be obtained, stewing the vegetables in butter till they are perfectly tender naturally makes the soup more palatable. After the vegeta- • bles have been stewed in butter of course great care. should be taken that when they are added to the soup the latter must be allowed to boil or simmer to allow it to throw off the fat. It is in this respect that tinned soups have an advantage over home-made soups. All cooks know how difficult it is to get all the fat off a large quantity, but how much more difficult is it to get it off a small quantity. When cooks make soup in a small saucepan the removal of the fat is a work of con- siderable difficulty. If, however, they were to go into a large kitchen, such as that at the Freemasons’ Tavern, they would see the stock - pot simmering gently, and the top of it covered with perhaps four or five inches of pure oil or fat. At the bottom, however, there is a tap. Consequently when any stock is required, owing to the simmering of the stock-pot the oil and fat is floating at or near the top, the bottom of the stock-pot being ab- solutely free from all fat. The cook has, therefore, simply to turn the tap to get stock perfectly pure. Of course this arrangement is not practicable in small private families. These tinned soups are extremely convenient, as they enable housekeepers to send up a little soup at a few moments’ notice, and all housekeepers know how con- venient this is in those cases in which possibly one "or two guests may arrive unexpectedly. Another convenience of tinned soups is that they can be wanned up late at night without giving trouble .to servants. IDNEY SOUP.—Kidney soup can be obtained in tins. It contains portions of kidney in addition to the rich soup. Like all other tinned soups, it can be warmed by simply boiling the tin for twenty minutes, or the tin can be opened and the soup turned into the saucepan and warmed up in the ordinary way. The soup is very nice as it is, but it can be tried as' follows. Many persons complain that kidneys, in any form, are apt to be in- digestible, and of course every form of tinned meats is apt to be somewhat overcooked. The kidneys, therefore, do not contain that rich red fluid which is the chief beauty of fresh-cooked kid- neys. The cook should drain off the kidneys and chop them up into small pieces, and rub the whole of the kidneys through a wire sieve. Then add this to the soup, and if the consistency be too thick it will bear the addition of a little more stock, or even water. It will also be found that the addition of a little wine of any kind is a very great im- rovement to kidney soup. Should there e a little champagne left in a bottle, this is by far the best of all wine for this purpose. Kidneys stewed in cham- pagne are a well-known dish to epicures. There is no doubt that the flavour of champagne combines admirably with the kidneys. It would, of course, be un- reasonable to open a bottle of cham- pagne on purpose, but should a bottle be open, a small glass of champagne added to kidney soup, whether in tins or made from fresh kidneys, is a very great improvement. KIPPERED HERRINGS.—See Her- rings. KIRSCHENWASSER.-Kirschenwasser is a very delicious liqueur made in Switzerland in the neighbourhood of Montreux, from morella cherries. Per- haps its chief characteristic, and that which makes it so highly prized, is that it is not sweet. It is a dry li- queur. The chief objection to most liqueurs is that they are too sweet.80 CROSSE AND PL A CKJVELL'S There are few liqueurs that are more suited for what is known as cleansing the palate than Kirschenwasser. In some places, after turtle soup, it is usual to take a glass of punch, and in others a glass of good old madeira. Kirschen- wasser is well worth a trial, as there is no doubt that, so far as cleansing the palate goes, it is infinitely superior to the other two. Kirschenwasser is also used occasionally in cooking. There are few sweets nicer than omelette au Kindi. This is simply a small quantity of kirsch, which is heated in the ordinary way, and then poured alight over the plain sweet omelet, which has been sprinkled over with white powdered i sugar. As I have known housekeepers experience difficulty in lighting spirits such as brandy, rum, etc., to pour over puddings, I will here explain how this can be done. If the spirit is very strong it will ignite at once, but when it is weak—or rather, I should say, when it has considerable age, as should be the case with all spirits used for the table— it will not light unless it is heated. Act, therefore, as follows. Fill, say, a gravy- spoon with Kirschenwasser, and take a piece of lighted paper and hold it under j the spoon. This will, of course, have j the effect of warming the spirit. In a : very short time it will be seen that the i spirit will easily ignite, when it can at i once be poured over the omelet or pud- j ding, wlien once in flames, if the dish j is very hot, more spirit can be added to 1 the dish; it will not be necessary to heat a second quantity. In making omelette au kirsch the omelette should be well sprinkled over with powdered sugar before the lighted spirit is added. Kirschenwasser is sometimes used for flavouring biscuits. Francatelli recoin- , mends its use in making Victoria bis- | cuits. I have been informed, though I cannot vouch for the accuracy of the statement, that Kirschenwasser is one of the very best spirits that can be taken by persons who suffer from dyspepsia. KNIVES, VARIOUS.—Many years ago, in one of the comic papers, a series of pictures were published exhibiting appa- rently a desperate struggle in a railway carriage. The last picture was that of a six-bladed knife on the ground, of which every blade had been broken. At the end it was stated, “ However, Mr. Jones had only been trying to open a box of sardines.” There is no doubt that these tinned provisions are, like oysters, easily opened with proper implements. As David Copperfield remarks, a limp knife or a two-pronged fork is not a nice thing to open oysters, and the same ap- plies to tinned goods of every description. Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell have pro- vided a set of implements, which can be S obtained from all grocers, for opening | various kinds of tinned meats. Some 1 of these tins, known as Henderson’s ! tins, are made with a thin strip of tin | that goes round the edge. For these tins there are what are known as patent openers. These are something like a key with which you wind up clocks. The thin strip of tin is caught between the two blades, the key being then twisted, and by this means the top of the tin is easily taken off. This is an extremely conve- nient form, as it enables the contents of tins to be turned out whole without being ! broken. When the tin itself is to be cut, the best opener of all is known as the “scissors-knife.” This is, on a small scale, similar to the implement used by smiths for cutting lead and tin. It is very powerful, and is thick and strong in the handle, and the blades are kept open by a spring. By means of these scissors the tin can be cut in any direc- tion required. Another very convenient form of knife is known as the bull’s- head knife. This is a strong knife, made in the shape of a bull’s head, which has a spike in the top. The spike is used for striking the tin and making a hole. Underneath the head there is a blade, which is inserted in the hole. The in- j strument then forms a powerful lever, I of which the bull’s head is the fulcrum. A somewhat similar opener is Knight’s opener, the only difference being that instead of the bull’s head at the top the fulcrum is a strong square piece of steel. The most common form of tin-opener is I a small strong spike, which has a pro- j jection at the side. This projection has ! one drawback—that it is not always j made sufficiently strong. Another pro- vision knife is made in the shape of a sickle. The great art in opening all these tins is not to be impatient, and not to use unnecessary violence. It is also as well to carefully avoid trying to cut through those places in the tin which are thicker than others, owing to the lump of solder underneath where the tins are joined together.HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 81 KNOTS, ASSORTED.—Assorted khots are a species of crystallised fruit. They are made in three different colours, and are a very nice garnish to be placed round the base of cakes, etc., or they can be placed in glass dishes by them- selves for dessert. PATES, TRUFFLED.— ,rk pates are a mixture larks and rich forcemeats th truffles. These pates i very rich, and a small quantity goes a long way. I have before called attention to the fact that all of these tins of rich meat are better when eaten cold. When, therefore, these tins are used either for breakfast or lunch, they should be kept in a cool place, or placed in ice till just before they are wanted. So, too, when they are used at picnics they form a very agreeable change after some cold meat, but it is far best to place the tins for an hour or half an hour at least in water in which a piece of ice has been placed. Lark pates when eaten luke-warm have a somewhat greasy taste, but when quite cold they are far better. As a rule they are more suited for winter than summer. The remains of these tins will be found ex- ceedingly useful to the cook in order to add to other ingredients to make any kind of rich forcemeat, the pieces of truffle rendering the forcemeat very superior. In making liver forcemeat from calves’ liver, ham, mushrooms, etc., it will be found a very great im- provement to add the remains of one of these tins. The forcemeat made in this way is suitable for all kinds of game pies, and will also assist in making a very nice dish of Italian fritters, which are simply pieces of very rich forcemeat dipped in good stiff batter and quickly fned in smoking hot lard. LARKS, TRUFFLED.—Larks stuffed with truffle are now preserved in tins. They are surrounded by a large quan- tity of very rich fat. Tins- fat will not be thrown away by economical cooks, but will be used for making rich force- meat of various kinds. The larks truffled can be eaten whole as they are, just in the same way as pate dc foie gras entire can be eaten whole. Cooks will find truffled larks very convenient for making a handsome supper dish. To many persons the presence of this yellow fat is an objection, on account of its being so extremely rich. When truffled larks are taken out to be eaten cold, or to make a cold dish, the cook should act as follows : Take the larks out of the tin very carefully. Like all other tinned goods they are necessarily rather over-cooked than otherwise. In taking the larks out of the tin the cook will often have some difficulty in getting them out whole. Sometimes the knife will be inserted too deep, and after being disturbed the larks are very apt to drop to pieces. The best method of taking them out is to put two forks under the birds and lift them out care- fully one by one from the fat in which they are imbedded. The cook should never attempt to pull them, or they will never come out whole. After having removed the larks and taken away as much of the rich fat as possible, they should be placed on a tin or plate and put for a few minutes in a hot oven, in order that the fat which remains upon them may dissolve and run off. They should then be carefully placed on a plate to get cold. Very often it will be found that portions of the meat will drop from the breasts and fall on to the plate. This is of no consequence, as the birds can be easily mended by what is virtually a little glue in the shape of glaze. Next dissolve a little strong bright glaze; and when it is of the con- sistency of melted glue take a small brush and glaze over the larks. The glaze will also enable you to put on any little pieces that may have fallen off, such as the slices from the breast, whicli can be put on to the bird again. Glaze the birds all over, using plenty of glaze, and taking care that the glaze is bright. Allow them to get cold. Then take a silver dish and place in the middle of it any kind of salad, such as fresh lettuce or a small quantity of mace- doines. The salad should be piled in the centre of the dish, and care should be taken, if a tin of macedoines is used, that green should somewhat predomi- nate. Tins of macedoines are often apt to contain tt>o much carrot. When this is the case they are not nearly so good for ornamenting purposes. Then place the larks carefully round the pyramid formed by the salad in the centre of the dish, and surround the outside of the dish with aspic jelly. G82 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S The aspic jelly can be taken ont of the bottle with a marrow-spoon, and by means of two forks drawn in opposite directions it can bo minced fine, and small heaps of it piled round the dish. This forms a very pretty dish. Some- times it may be advisable, if the vege- tables are not very bright, to get a little very bright parsley and just sprinkle this lightly over the vegetables. The vegetables can be dressed m the ordinary way with a little oil or vinegar, but they will not require much vinegar, as the aspic jelly is sufficiently sharp to give the dish a slightly acid taste when eaten. These tins of birds preserved whole, stuffed with truffle, are very convenient to have in the house, and especially to those who live in the country. By this means, with the as- sistance of some bottled aspic jelly, and a tin of macedoines, a handsome supper dish can be always made at a short j notice. Housekeepers know how very convenient it is to be able to have \ constantly by them a few such dishes i in reserve when taken unawares by the ' unexpected arrival of a few guests. LAVER.—Laver is a dish not often met with, nor is it often referred to in ! cookery-books. One of the few books which refers to laver is that very com- prehensive work, “ Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery.” According to Sir Henry j Thompson, laver is in season from Oc- S tober to March, and consists of two native marine plants—Porphyra Vulgaris I and Veva Latissima. It is generally served as an accompaniment to roast mutton, and can be dressed like spinach, j with butter and a little stock, and a ! dash of lemon-juice. One method of j serving laver is as follows :—Let it soak | in two fresh waters, boil it till quite tender, add some fresh butter, and squeeze over it some juice of a lemon or small orange. Stir it well, and serve it j in a dish over a lamp or on a hot-water | dish. The taste for laver is an acquired one. Instead of the butter a little white sauce may be added, but lemon-juice should never be omitted. Laver is now supplied in tins by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell. The best mode of W'arming it is to place the tin in boiling water for twenty minutes or more, or the laver may be turned out and warmed up in a saucepan. It should be served very hot, and a little lemon cut can be handed with it, or lemon-juice may be added just before serving. LAZENBY’S HARVEY'S SAUCE.—See Harvey’s Sauce. LEA AND PERRIN’S WORCESTER SAUCE.—See Worcester Sauce. LEMON CHIPS, CANDIED. — Candied lemon chips are very nice when served by themselves as a dish for dessert. Children are very fond of them, but they are somewhat indigestible. The best way to serve lemon chips is to use thetn as a garnish for seme other dessert dish, such as pound-cake, or they can be placed round a dish of fancy bis- cuits. LEMON CREAM.—Lemon cream can now be obtained preserved. It should be dissolved and the whole poured into a mould, and the mould when set should be turned out on to a glass or silver dish. The base can be ornamented with some pieces of cut lemon and a few green candied fruits. The appearance of the mould can be considerably improved in various ways, depending upon the shape of the mould. For instance, if the mould is surmounted by a cucumber, a small quantity, just sufficient to fill the cucumber, may be coloured a bright green with some of Breton’s vegetable colouring, or the top of the mould can be coloured a deep red with some of Breton’s carmine. Should the mould be surrounded with knobs, the knobs can be filled with a little coloured jelly. The bright coloured jelly on the top of a solid white cream has a pretty effect. LEMON, ESSENCE OF. — Essence of lemon is a very valuable essence, by which the flavour of lemon can- be imparted to a great variety of dishes, such as puddings, etc. Like all these essences, however, the cook should use essence of lemon with caution. For in- stance, I will take the case of apple-pie. Most cooks know that a few strips of lemon-peel and a few cloves are a great improvement to apple-pie. Should there, however, be a difficulty in obtain- ing lemons, a few drops of essence of lemon may be substituted. As a rule, essence of lemon should never be used for flavouring purposes unless the dish is to be eaten cold. In saying that it should not as a ride be used for any-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. .83 thing hot, I can give one exception. Essence of lemon is very useful for fla- vouring hot drinks, such as hot rum-and- water, and a few drops of it has a marked effect in making a bowl of punch. When lemons cannot be ob- tained, essence of lemon will be found very valuable. Essence of lemon is also used for flavouring custards. In making lemon custards I woidd strongly recom- mend the cook never to drop the essence into the mixture direct, but to drop it first into a spoon. By this means, should accidentally too great a quantity fall, the error can be easily rectified. Essence of lemon assists in making a very agreeable refreshment for a hot day, and it is also a capital medium for conveying a valuable medicine, which in summer is often recommended by medi- cal men. A very nice refreshing drink, suitable for persons suffering from fever- ish cold, accompanied by sore throat, can be made as follows : A few drops of essence of lemon, a little sugar, and a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid. I wish to avoid as much as possible in the present work interfering with medicine or receipts. The amount of sulphuric acid that should be added must depend on the doctor’s orders, and not on the fancy of the person who mixes the drink. LEMON JELLY.—Lemon jelly, when purchased in bottles, is always bright. Cooks know what great difficulty they experience in getting jelly perfectly bright when home-made. Undoubt- edly the most convenient form of obtaining jelly is bottled, and it is to be regretted that housekeepers do not more often avail themselves of this bottled jelly instead of having the jelly home-made. Of course, when jelly is made in large quantities, the difficulty of getting it bright is infinitely less than when it is made in small quantities. The usual difficulty in brightening home-made jelly is so great, that although the cost may be small, a large quantity is wasted in clarifying, and it is therefore far more economical to buy a bottle of jelly al- ready brightened than to make it in the house; thus a good deal of expense, as well as much time and trouble, will be avoided. The best way to use a bottle of jelly is to plunge the bottle into warm water, but not too warm. First, there is the danger of cracking the bottle; and, secondly, if the jelly is heated be- yond a certain point, it is apt sometimes to get clouded. The cook should place the bottle in water sufficiently warm to dissolve the jelly, so as to enable her to pour it out of the bottle. The jelly can then be used for any purpose required. It can be piled up in glasses or it can be poured into a mould of any shape. It may also be altered in flavour as well as colour. The addition of a little colour- ing and flavouring will enable the cook to produce two moulds of jelly out of one bottle. For instance, suppose she has two small moulds. Half of the jelly can be served just as it is, or it can be flavoured by the addition of lemon-juice, essence of lemon, or any other flavour- ing. It must be remembered that all this is purely a matter of taste. In all preserved goods it is important that the manufacturer should never go to ex- tremes ; consequently, when a bottle is opened, the cook who knows her master’s palate should act accordingly. Then the other half of the bottle can be flavoured altogether differently by the addition of, say, a teaspoonful of essence of vanilla, and the jelly altered in colour by the addition of a little of Breton’s colouring or a small quantity of cochineal. When the party is small, and it is known beforehand that not many persons will sit down to dinner, it is far better to have two small moulds of jelly, differing both in appearance and flavour, than to have one large one. Another point with regard to bottled jellies is that they are suitable for use either in summer or winter. Of course, the consistency of the jelly on a cold winter’s day at Christmas-time would be very different to that on a hot day in August. Cooks should therefore exer- cise their own discretion in adding to jelly according to the weather. Wnen the cook has the advantage of ice she can always improve the jelly by adding a, little more wine. So, too, in winter a little wine can always be added. Jelly, to be perfect, should be almost on the point of falling to pieces. Cooks should remember that it is never right to sacri- fice taste to appearances. Jelly should never come to table in such a state that it has to be bitten, but, on the other hand, in such a condition that it may easily melt in the mouth. Of course, there is the danger of the mould break- ing, but it is far better to hand roundCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 84 a broken mould than one which no one will care to eat. When it is possible, in hot weather jelly should bo always kept in ice until the last moment, and turned out only just before it is sent to table. It is sometimes desirable before pouring the jelly into the mould to freeze the mould by placing it in some chopped ice mixed with salt. Then hold the mould for a few seconds only over some steam. As the temperature of the copper mould is some 30° below freezing, the steam will, of course, instantly freeze on the mould itself. The mould can be replaced in the ice, and when the jelly is nearly on the point of setting it can be poured into the mould. Owing to its being im- bedded in the ice the jelly will soon set hard. The mould should be kept in the ice until just before it is wanted. When the mould of jelly is served it should bo tolerably hard and firm, and also per- fectly cold. After the jelly has been in the room some quarter of an hour or more, if it is in its proper condition, it will begin to fall to pieces. This shows that it has been served exactly as it should be. I would remind cooks that, when a mould of jelly breaks and there is no time to have it reset, the old jelly-glasses are very convenient for serving it. LEMON JUICE.—Lemon juice can be obtained in bottles, and is very con- venient for making cooling drinks. One very popular one is known by the name of “ Lemon squash.” Lemon squash is made by sweetening a little lemon juice with some powdered sugar and adding a bottle of soda-water. The soda-water, of course, should be kept in ice, or a small piece of ice should be added. In all these cooling drinks ice is almost an essential, and 1 think that this country is gradually becoming more and more aware of the fact of how popular a small lump of ice is at all seasons of the year. In America, although the thermometer is down to zero, a lump of ice always accompanies every kind of cold drink, besides a glass of iced water being served at breakfast, dinner, luncheon, or sup- per, as a matter of course. There is something barbarous in a refreshing drink served warm. Bottled lemon juice can also be used for flavouring puddings, custards, etc. It is best when tolerably fresh, and will not keep good for a very long time. LEMON MARMALADE.—Lemon mar- malade is not so popular or so generally used as orange marmalade, but it forms an agreeable change, and is by some persons preferred to the latter. It is an excellent breakfast dish, and can also be used to surround white puddings, such as cornflour, arrowroot, etc. Lemon marmalade can also be placed side by side with some red jam, such as rasp- berry jam, and this is a very nice gar- nish to a white pudding when turned out of a mould. LEMON PEEL, ESSENCE OF.— Of course, if caution has to be taken with regard to using ordinary essence of lemon, still greater care should be taken in using essence of lemon peel. Essence of lemon peel imparts not only a lemon but a bitter flavour, and should there- fore be used with extreme caution. It j is very valuable to have a bottle at hand in cases where fresh lemons can- not be obtained. LEMON PICKLE SAUCE. — Lemon pickle sauce is a species of lemon vine- gar, and is used to impart a very agree- able relish to fish sauces. Lemon pickle sauce will be found to go very well with a little melted butter when served with boiled mackerel instead of ordinary vinegar; and, indeed, whenever vinegar is used for any kind of fish, it will as a rule be found that lemon pickle sauce is preferable. The flavour is very delicate, and of course those who are not fond of vinegar should use it with caution. LEMON SYRUP.—Lemon syrup is pro- bably the best known of all syrups, and is a most convenient form of having a cooling drink ready at any moment of the day. The most agreeable form in which to take lemon syrup is to stir up a spoonful of it in iced soda-water or plain water. I have before noticed, under the headings of “ Apricot Syrup ” and “ Red-Currant Syrup,” how im- portant a part these syrups might be made to play in assisting to decrease the tendency to take too much stimulant. There is no doubt that in the present day this subject is regarded with greater importance than it has been for very many years past. In what are gene- rally known as the good old days, drinking was generally confined to after dinner. Men who had worked hard ( or ridden hard during the day com-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 85 menccd to drink port wine after dinner. Of late years, however, the tendency has been very different, and it will now be observed that, as a rule, the greatest drinkers drink but little with their meals. The most injurious form of all drinking is the continuous succession of nips or “ pick-me-ups ” throughout the day. It will now be observed that many men who are in the habit of requiring something to drink throughout the day during hot weather find an occasional lemon squash or glass of lemon syrup equally as refreshing as a stronger drink. LEMONS, PICKLED.—Lemons can be obtained pickled in vinegar. These are better adapted perhaps to suit the Ger- man taste than the English. Persons who are fond of acids will enjoy pickled lemons, and some will eat a whole pickled lemon before dinner in the same way that others take a glass of bitters to create an appetite. In Germany men will often be seen to eat two or three pickled gherkins, crunching them up in the same way that children in this country bite into an apple. These pickled lemons are very cooling and refreshing, but are only suited to those whose tastes are inclined to acids. LENTILS.—Lentils, though for many years used on the Continent, have not been popular in this country until comparatively recent date. Lentils are commonly used on the Continent for the purpose of making soup maiyrc. Soup maiyrc is, of course, soup which contains no kind of meat whatever, but is composed of vegetables, to which may be added peas, lentils, pea-flour, or ground lentils. In making soup maiyrc almost any kind of vegetables can be used. The following, however, are al- most essential. First in importance come onions and then celery. Next in importance to these are potatoes, turnips, carrots, parsnips, etc. A very good addition to soup maiyrc is lettuce, green peas, French beans, and, at the finish, when the soup is nearly ready to bo served, a handful of sorrel chipped up and thrown in. When soup maiyrc is_ wanted very good, when it is other- wise ready some yolks of eggs may be added to it. When lentils are added they should be soaked in water over night, and any stray ones that may be seen on the surface of the water should be thrown away, as the fact of their floating shows that they are bad. The lentils should be then boiled in the soup till they are quite tender._ The soup can be served just as it is, or it can be sent up in the form of a purde by rubbing the whole through a wire sieve. Lentils can also be served whole as a vegetable. They should be boiled till they are tender, strained off, and then mixed with a piece of butter and a little pepper and salt. It will be found an improvement to add a spoonful of chopped parsley. Lentils can also be served, after being boiled, with olive oil. The dish in which they are served can also be rubbed with a bead of garlic ; chopped parsley and a little lemon- juice can be added afterwards. Lentils are supposed to contain a great amount of nourishment, but they always require the addition of a certain amount of fat in some shape or other. When lentils are served at meals at which no meat is taken they can be mixed with oil or butter in the way we have mentioned. When animal fat is not objected to, a very good plan for cooldng lentils is to boil them in a small quantity of greasy stock. The liquor in which a leg of pork or a piece of pickled pork or ham has been boiled, and which will very often, owing to its saltness, be use- less for other purposes, will be found extremely useful for boiling lentils. Where dishes do not contain any fat in themselves there is always a craving for it in some shape or other. For instance, boiled fish seems almost to ask for melted butter. It may have been observed that very often—or at least it was so many years ago, though the custom may be now discontinued— whenever a fish dinner was given it ter- minated in a course of beans and bacon. The beans and bacon closing the meal was almost a scientific method of caus- ing the food to contain all the essential properties of nourishment. There are French lentils and Egyptian lentils, but they do not differ very much either in quality or appearance. When serving lentils in oil, of course it is essential that the oil should be fresh and pure. People in this country have often a strong objection to oil in any form, but it is very much owing to the fact that a great part of the oil which they are accustomed to take has been kept too long. When oil is perfectly pure, like80 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S very good butter, it is almost tasteless. Boiled lentils, mixed with a little butter, pepper, and salt, can be served with boiled bacon, pork, etc. LIMES, WEST INDIA, PICKLED.— West India limes can be obtained pickled in vinegar in bottles. They are very similar to pickled lemons, and of course are somewhat acid. They are well adapted to the taste of those per- sons who are fond of acids, and are po- pular throughout the whole of Germany. They are sometimes eaten at the com- mencement of dinner as an appetiser, in the same way as pickled gherkins, cu- cumbers, etc. LIMES IN SYRUP.—Limes when pre- served in syrup form a very delicious sweet. They are also very wholesome, especially when fresh fruit cannot be obtained. In long sea voyages they form an excellent dessert-dish, and they also possess considerable cooling pro- perties. LIME JUICE.—Lime juice is a well- known preparation, and is supplied in large quantities to ships going to sea— in fact, a captain of a vessel going on a long voyage is bound to take a certain amount of lime juice, which forms a per- fect antidote to scurvy. It is exported from the West Indies in very large quantities to this country, and is used for making citric acid, as well as being a very popular drink. Lime juice in water is a cheap, cooling drink, and it is to be regretted that it is not more often sold throughout this country in hot weather. Probably lime juice is the cheapest form of syrup sold in this country. As we have said before, it is to be greatly regretted that grocers do not introduce and retail glasses of syrup and water at a cost of a penny, or even a halfpenny. This would be a source of profit to themselves, and an inestimable boon to many. Many persons would never take to the use of intoxicants at all were it not for the fact that there is no alternative between them and water. Lime juice is exceedingly nice when mixed with a little iced soda-water. In hot weather housekeepers would find a bottle of lime juice exceedingly useful. So, too, would masters of schools, when boys come in hot and thirsty from cricket. A glass of water, flavoured with a little lime juice and sweetened, is far more wholesome than water by itself, and it will also tend very greatly to purify the blood. LIME JUICE CORDIAL. — Lime juice cordial is a preparation of lime juice very carefully prepared, the greatest caution being exercised that none but the very best kind is used. A very well-known form of lime juice is the cordial known as Montserrat Cor- dial, which can be obtained both in quart and pint bottles. This is very largely used throughout the country. Those who have never made a trial of it would do well to get a bottle, which will be found to make a very cheap and most agreeable beverage in hot weather when mixed with water. Another form' of lime juice is that known as Montserrat Aromatic Cordial. This is a prepara- tion from lime juice, with the addition of several kinds of spices. A descrip- tion of aromatic cordial will be found under the heading, ,l Aromatic Cordial” (see Aromatic Cordial). LIME SYRUP. — Lime syrup is lime juice prepared with sugar. It is rather sweeter than lime juice itself, and a small quantity in a little soda-water, or plain water, forms a very refreshing summer drink. It will be rendered still more agreeable by the addition of a lump of ice. LIQUID CAYENNE.—See Caven’XE. LOBSTER, CURRIED, HALFORD’S.— See Curried Meats. LOBSTER, POTTED.—Potted lobster is a lobster paste to which lobster butter has been added. When lobster butter cannot be obtained, potted lobster is, to a certain extent, a substitute; it also forms an agreeable addition to the breakfast-table. LOBSTER, TINNED. — Lobsters pre served in tins are perhaps one of the most favourite tinned meats that are used in this country; indeed there are many persons who prefer tinned lobster to fresh, on the ground of the former being more digestible. Tinned lobster can be used in various ways. The simplest form is to have the lobster plain with a little oil, vinegar, and pepper ; and in this way it is served for breakfast, luncheon, and supper. Ano- ther very useful form of using it is to make lobster sauce. Cooks know atHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 87 . certain seasons of the year how ex- tremely difficult it is to get fresh lob- ster ; indeed, very often lobster cannot be obtained at all, but equally good sauce can be made by using tinned lobster. Lobster sauce is simply pieces of lobster warmed up in melted butter. We will first of all take a high-class model. Those who have been fortunate enough to dine at that well-known place, the Freemasons’ Tavern, will remember that the lobster sauce there is of a deep red colour, in fact the same colour as red lead, and that the sauce itself has a very strong lobster flavour; indeed, there is quite as much flavour in the sauce as in the lobster itself. I will explain how this colour and flavour are obtained. The deep red colour is made by the addition of lobster butter. Lobster butter is made by mixing the boiled red coral of lobster with some butter till it becomes a smooth rich red paste, resembling, as I have said, red lead. A little cayenne pepper should be added, and the lobster butter should be put away in a small jar. I would strongly urge on all cooks, who have any pretension to the name, to invaria- bly have by them a small quantity of lobster butter. When lobsters are in season cooks should get their fish- mongers to supply them with as much lobster coral as possible. The red coral out of crayfish is equally good. Of course the coral must be boiled. Mix the red coral with about an equal quantity of butter till the whole becomes a smooth paste. Then put in about a saltspoonful of cayenne pepper to every three tablespoonfuls of lobster butter, and see that the cayenne pepper is well mixed in. Should the cook anticipate keeping the lobster butter for a long period, more cayenne should be added, as, of course, the more cayenne it con- tains the longer it will keep. The jar should then be put away handy for use, with some clarified butter over the top. If a small piece of bladder is tied over it the lobster butter will keep good for months. We will now suppose the cook lias taken the precautioif to have by her some lobster butter, which will enable her to make lobster sauce as follows :— Take a quarter of a pound of butter and cut it into six equal parts. Take one piece and mix it with an equal quantity of flour, and place it in a saucer in the oven till the butter has dissolved. Then with a spoon mix the butter and flour well together. Next take rather less than half a pint of water, add the butter and flour to this, and let it boil. This will, of course, make the water thick. Next add a dessert-spoonful, or perhaps rather less, of lobster butter, and dis- solve this thoroughly till the whole becomes a deep red mixture. Now add gradually the remainder of the butter, taking care that the sauce does not get too hot. It should be kept hot, but should not be allowed to boil. Next cut up sufficient meat for the sauce out of a tin of lobster and add this to the sauce. Owing to the lobster butter containing cayenne pepper there will bq no occasion to add any more cayenne. Just before sending to table the cook should add a little lemon juice. Another very nice way of serving tinned lobster is in the shape of lobster salad mayon- naise. Mayonnaise sauce is made by beating up yolks of eggs and oil. The yolks should be placed in a basin, free from all white, and the oil dropped in drop by drop. At the same time it should be beaten with a fork. Gradually, as more oil is added, the sauce becomes thicker and thicker. The oil should be added, as we have said, till the sauce is as thick as ordinary butter in warm weather. Cooks wiil often find it impossible to get the sauce sufficiently thick. However, a great deal of trouble in making it can be saved by buying the sauce ready made, as supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Black- well. To make mayonnaise salad pro- ceed as follows :—Firstftake two or three nice fresh French lettuces, trim away all the withered leaves, and if pos- sible avoid washing them at all; it is far better to avoid washing them. So far as them itself is concerned, it is crisper when unwashed. Should, however, the cook have any suspicion that there are any ova of insects on them, of course the lettuces should be washed. The washed lettuce should be placed in a wire basket, and this wire basket should be slun^ to shake the drops of water from the lettuce. Next pile up the lettuce leaves in the centre of the dish, of course a silver dish being the best for the purpose. Then take the meat of a tinned lobster, dry the meat in a cloth, and place it on the top of the lettuce. Next take some good thick mayonnaise sauce and mask88 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S the whole surface of the lobster with it. Next, if possible, procure a little lobster coral, and sprinkle a little of the coral over the white sauce, as well as a little finely-chopped green parsley. These little specks of red and green on the white look very pretty. Next take about a teaspoonful of capers, dry them in a cloth, and stick them in the sauce at intervals of about an inch apart. Then take three or four anchovies and fillet them (see Anchovies, to Fillet), and make a trellis-work round the base of the salad on the white sauce with the filleted anchovies. Next take two hard- boiled eggs, which should be allowed to get cold, cut them in quarters, and place them round the base. Also round the base put a dozen or more stoned olives. If the mayonnaise sauce used has been prepared by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, no vinegar need be added, but if the mayonnaise sauce is home-made, a little tarragon vinegar should be added to it after it is made. If the cook has by her some of that very useful substance known as lobster butter, a little of the mayonnaise sauce can be coloured red with it, and the cook can thus ex- ercise her ingenuity in ornament- ing the salad with the red and white sauce, which can be placed in stripes. Mayonnaise sauce can also be coloured green by the addition of Breton’s vege- table colouring. When lobster coral cannot be obtained, a very good substi- tute to make the little red specks to be sprinkled over the sauce can be obtained by taking some fine bread-crumbs, about the size of the coral. A very small quantity will be enough—half a tea- spoonful would be plenty. Place them in a saucer with two or three drops of cochineal, and shake them. The cochi- neal will turn the bread-crumbs a deep red colour, and it is almost impossible to distinguish these red bread-crumbs from lobster coral itself. Another good addi- tion to mayonnaise salad, made from tinned lobster, is to place some slices of cucumber round the base. The cucum- ber should of course be peeled, and the slices cut very thin. Another very nice addition is some sliced gherkins. In France sliced pickled gherkins are always served with mayonnaise salads, and render them, to my mind, far more appetising. When it is possible to ob- tain a few small claws of lobster—not the pincers—they can be placed round the dish to show what it is made of. A still nicer garnish for lobster salad is to place four or five small red crayfish, one in each corner, and another crayfish on the top of the salad. Tinned lobster can also be used for making lobster pates, but lobster butter made from the coral of fresh lobster is almost essential, as the inside of the pates should look red. In making lobster pates from tinned lobster, of course the first point is the pate cases. When it is possible, these are always best bought of a French pastrycook—if possible, ready made. The cases should be so constructed that they will hold a considerable quantity of forcemeat. The old-fashioned pates made many years ago by pastrycooks consisted of three layers, each one smaller than the other, which generally resulted in the pates being all pastry. There used to be a small sort of red wafer in the middle. The only flavour discernible in these wafers was that of anchovy, and these a few years back were sold as lobster pates. We will suppose, then, the cases are ready-made, and that each pat4 case will hold a large tablespoonful and a half or two tablespoonfuls of lobster forcemeat. This should be made as follows :—Get a small quantity of good white sauce and colour it a bright red with lobster butter; then add some of the meat from the tinned lobster, sufficient to make the whole a sort of lobster mince. Add, say, to every half-pound a brimming teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and just a suspicion of the flavour of nutmeg, some black pepper, and the juice of a quarter of a lemon. No cayenne pepper need be added in consequence of there being a considerable quantity of cayenne already in the lobster butter, otherwise cayenne pepper is essential. Tinned lobster can also be made into “bashawed lobster ” as follows:—Get a little white sauce or a little butter, and colour it a deep red with some lobster butter. Next chop up a piece of onion, about the size of one’s thumb down to the first joint, and enough parsley to fill a tea- spoon brimming full when chopped. Cut up some of the meat of a tinned lobster and mix all this together. Add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce and half a teaspoonful of black pepper. Bashawed lobster, properly, should be served in the shell of the lobster itself ; but as weHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 89 have prepared it from tinned lobster there would probably be no shell ob- tainable, therefore the cook must serve it in scallop-shells ; or should some deep oyster-shells be obtainable, they may be used to form a very pretty dish in which to serve bashawed lobster. Fill eacli shell with the lobster forcemeat, shake some bread -crumbs over the top, and cover it completely with them. Then bake them in the oven till the bread-crumbs are a nice brown colour. The bread-crumbs, before they are shaken on, must be very dry, or else they will take some time to brown over. A few bread-raspings, a bright golden brown in colour, give a tone to the dish. LOZENGES, GELATINE.—See Gela- tine. LOZENGES, MEAT.—See Meat Lozen- ges. LUCCA OIL.—See Oil. LUCKNOW CHUTNEY.—See Chutney. LUNETTES, CRYSTALLISED. — Lu- nettes, crystallised, are a species of crys- tallised fruit. See Fruits, Crystal- lised. wslj t'jylACARONI. — Macaroni is a rfcvAwl S preparation of pure wheaten firY/l F fl°ur made in Italy, where it is almost as much the staff of life as bread is in this country. In many parts of the Con- tinent, and especially in Italy itself, a course of macaroni always pre- cedes meat at dinner, somewhat in the same style that in olden days in boys’ schools pudding was served before meat in order that it might act as somewhat of a damper on the appetite. There is no doubt whatever that if macaroni was more popular in this country an enor- mous saving in the weekly butcher’s bill would be made by all families who used it. In England it is too common to hear the remark, “We can’t afford soup and fish every day.” In France, however, the tradesman com- mences his dinner every day with soup on the ground that he cannot afford to dine without it. The fish-trade in England is a subject that now calls forth the attention of all bodies, and there is no doubt that before long great efforts will be made to enable the poor to have cheap fish. For middle-class families, possessed of what may be termed middle- class incomes, who live in towns where the supply of fish is tolerably constant, there is no doubt that by far the best method of buying fish is to leave the class of fish to the fish- monger. Too often in this country when fish is wanted housekeepers will select their own fish, and will go to the fishmonger’s and give the following order:—“Oh, I want a small pair of soles,” or “ I want a slice of salmon for dinner to-day.” Now, it is possible that when the order is given the soles may be selling at the rate of half-a- crown a pound, and salmon may be per- haps two shillings a pound. It is also equally possible that on the same day fresh herrings, mackerel, plaice, etc., may be a glut in the market, and could be retailed at the price of a penny a pound. Each day the supply of fish varies, and if housekeepers were to leave the kind of fish to the discre- tion of the fishmonger it would be quite possible to ensure the supply of two pounds of fish daily at the rate of three- pence per pound. There are many fish- mongers well known in the West End of London who would willingly supply families with sixpennyworth of fish daily if the selection of the fish were left to them. It is by this method that large restaurants and hotel - keepers are enabled to retail their fish at such mode- rate prices. They make a bargain with the fishmonger or fish salesman for so many pounds of fish all the year round, and thus they have the benefit of only supplying the kind of fish which happens to be cheapest in the market. I have alluded thus to the subject of fish because in many parts of the country, especially where fish is not always obtainable, macaroni may be used as a substitute. In England we are accustomed as a rule to see it served up in one form only, and that is as macaroni cheese, and this not as a damper on the appe- tite, but as the last of a series of courses —in fact, it takes the place of cheese itself. I would very strongly recom- mend housekeepers, especially where economy is at all essential, to try the ex- periment for a few weeks of commencing dinner with macaroni. There are num- berless ways of cooking macaroni, and I will as briefly as possible refer to some90 CEOSSE AND BLACKWELL’S not so well known in this country as on the Continent, where macaroni is re- arded as an article of everyday food, n Italy the most general way of serv- ing macaroni is as follows : — First, take a pound of macaroni, wash it thoroughly, and let it boil in plain water till it is tender ; a little salt should be added to the water. A still better method would be to boil the macaroni in a little greasy stock. The water that has been used for boiling a ham, a piece of pickled pork, or a piece of bacon, etc., would do very well for the purpose. When the macaroni is tender, drain off the water, and turn the macaroni into a dish. Add to it a good-sized spoonful of tomato sauce or some of the conserve of tomato. A little butter should also be added, and a little grated Parmesan cheese. Parmesan cheese, which is an Italian cheese, is best suited for the purpose; it can be obtained in bottles. There is no doubt that Parmesan cheese is superior to every other kind of cheese. Francatelli recommends a mixture of Parmesan cheese with an equal quantity of Gru- yhre. In English homes housekeepers will find macaroni a very cheap and use- ful form in which they can use up the remains of all kinds of cheese used for the table. Grated cheese is an extremely economical dish, as well as a very sim- ple one ; because if cheese is not used in this way it will be thrown away. All housekeepers know that there are times when cheese gets into a state in which it is impossible to send it to table as it is. Too often—and I fear it is owing to teither ignorance or indifference—the remains of cheese are absolutely wasted. A dish of macaroni served at the com- mencement of dinner, as I have de- scribed, will be found to be an immense saving, as after a good plate of a tempt- ing dish of this description it will be found that very much less meat is eaten. Unlike meat, macaroni increases in weight by cooking, owing to the mois- ture it absorbs. A leg of mutton, weigh- ing ten pounds uncooked, will weigh considerably less than ten pounds after being roasted or baked. A very great amount of moisture will escape in the form of steam, and a considerable amount of fat leaves the meat of course in the shape of dripping. On the other hand, macaroni which weighed a pound at the grocer’s, after cooking will be found to have very much increased in weight and bulk. I would here remind housekeepers that it can be bought at the rate of sixpence a pound. There is a very general impression that macaroni is an expensive article. It is only wheaten Hour in a very dry state, and consequently very light. When, how- ever, it is soaked and boiled in either stock, water, or milk, the weight in- creases very materially, and house- keepers will be astonished to find how much can be made out of a pound of macaroni when cooked. Probably one difficulty in the way of the receipt I have just given is the tomato sauce. Unfortunately we all know that in this country housekeepers protest against all kinds of novelties. To buy a bottle of tomato sauce seems to them an unneces- sary extravagance. I will therefore give one other method of cooking macaroni, which is not so general or so good as the previous one. Proceed as follows Boil the macaroni in water—or, still better, stock—till it is tender ; dram it, and place it in a dish. Then slice up an onion, chop it somewhat finely, and fry the chopped onion in a clean frying- pan in a little butter. The onion must be fried till it is just on the point of turning brown, when it should be taken out of the frying-pan. The frying-pan should correspond to that used for mak- ing omelets ; it must not be burnt, other- wise the butter will turn dark, and ap- pear like “nut-brown butter,” or, as it is sometimes called, “black butter.” The onions should be fried tender, but the butter should be kept the same colour as the sauce. Now pour the con- tents of the frying-pan over the maca- roni already boiled tender. Add a little pepper ana salt, and toss it lightly to- gether. Some grated Parmesan or Other cheese can then bo added to the dish according to fancy ; but this dish of ma- caroni, with only onion, pepper, salt, and butter, will be found very palatable and very satisfying, and, if served as a course by itself before meat, a great saving will be effected ; and, in the case of the majority of healthy persons, a more wholesome meal will be obtained than if they dined off meat alone. Pro- bably in England most of us every day eat more meat than is good for us, especially those who are well-to- do in the world. An Irish navvy who rises at five in the morning91 ’s GUIDE. HOUSEKEPER and works throughout the day, lives chiefly on plain bread-and-butter or bread-and-dripping. How many of us are there who cannot but envy the navvy his strength and also his appetite ? Macaroni is, to all intents and purposes, the same thing as bread so far as its nourishing properties are concerned, but it is bread in a far more agreeable form than can be obtained in this country. Another very nice form of serving maca- roni is as follows :—Boil the macaroni in some plain water or some milk till it is tender, then add a good spoonful of food white sauce or some good melted- utter. Toss the whole lightly together with a couple of forks; add to it a tea- spoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon. Grated cheese can now be added as before. Macaroni, after being boiled tender in water, can be served up -with a little cream or milk, but cream is far superior to milk. When cream is used it is usual to surround the dish of macaroni with some small pieces of pastry, cut out in the shape of flowers. When the cheese is added it is generally best to toss the macaroni lightly together in the stewpan over the fire till the cheese approaches melting, so that when the macaroni is separated stick from stick the cheese is seen to hang in the form of threads like cobwebs. In all cases of serving macaroni I would re- mind housekeepers of the importance of cutting it up into pieces ; the limit of length should not be more than three inches. Those who have been in Italy and have seen the poor men eat then- dish of macaroni will remember that it has a tendency to hang from the mouth, and has to be shovelled in, in a sort of continuous stream, from the plate to the mouth without any cessation. The most common form of serving macaroni in this country is that of macaroni cheese. The macaroni should be first boiled tender in water—or, still better, in milk. It is then placed in a small tin and grated cheese added to it, and a small piece of butter. When it is piled up sufficiently high, and the whole sur- mounted with a dome of bread-crumbs, the dish must be placed in the oven till it is browned over. This is a com- mon form, but I would remind house- keepers that when macaroni is dressed in this fashion a considerable amount of heat is necessary to brown the bread- crumbs. Consequently, while the bread- crumbs are browning, the butter that has been added to the macaroni is “ oiled,” and so gives the macaroni cheese an oily taste. I would therefore recommend when making macaroni cheese which is to be covered with bread-crumbs that the bread-crumbs should be very dry ; then they brown much more quickly than when somewhat moist. A far better method of browning macaroni is to brown the top with a “ salamander.” For the benefit of those who do not know what a salamander is I would explain that on the Continent this ex- tremely useful piece of iron is used for a variety of purposes—for browning over portions of joints, dishes, etc., that have not acquired a good colour. It is simply a thick piece of iron put into the fire till it is red-hot. This is then held over the part that has not acquired a good colour. In a very few seconds the colour is obtained. In England, where salamanders are, comparatively speak- ing, unknown, the cook will find an excellent substitute in the kitchen shovel. This can be ' thrust into the hot ashes, and when red-hot forms as good a salamander as any which can be obtained; but the tendency is to wear out the shovel prematurely. When macaroni is served with tomato sauce and Parmesan grated cheese, it forms that very well-known dish called “ sparghetti.” A particular kind of macaroni is specially sold for making sparghetti (see Spakghetti). Next to macaroni cheese, probably the most common form of eating macaroni in this country is that of macaroni soup. I re- member, many years ago, when at school, that the boys designated the soup in question as “ gas-pipes.” Maca- roni soup is simply macaroni served in some good clear stock. Cooks must, however, bear in mind that the outside of macaroni contains a certain amount of flour, and therefore they should boil the macaroni in some plain water before it is added to the soup. Were they to add macaroni to the stock direct, how- ever bright it was originally, the fresh macaroni would instantly make it cloudy. In serving macaroni soup I would always recommend the cook to cut it into pieces not longer than an inch, because when macaroni is served in long pieces it has a tendency to slip over the side of the spoon, and will prove a severe trial to bashful persons.BLACKWELL'S 02 CHOSSE AND . Macaroni makes a most nutritious and delicious pudding, and it can be strongly recommended for families - where the children require light but nourishing food. Take a pound of macaroni, wash it, and boil it in milk till tender. As fal- as possible, so regulate the quantity of milk that the macaroni, when boiled, will nearly absorb the whole of it. Next take a pie-dish, and, although it is not necessary, it is a great improvement to the appearance of the dish to surround the edge with puff paste. Next put the macaroni in the middle with some sugar; add two or three eggs, according as the dish is required very rich ; take a little of the milk from the macaroni and beat the eggs up thoroughly, adding hot milk to the eggs, and then mix the whole well together. With regard to flavour, pud- dings of this kind may be flavoured in a variety of ways. For instance, I will mention essence of vanilla or lemon- peel. When the pudding is flavoured i with lemon-peel the best plan is to take a dozen or half a dozen lumps of sugar, rub them on the outside skin of the lemon, and then simply add the sugar which is thus flavoured with lemon-peel to the pudding, taking care that the sugar is thoroughly dissolved and mixed witli the whole, otherwise one part will be more flavoured than another, and those parts most flavoured will be very bitter owing to the lemon- peel being concentrated. A very great improvement when lemon-peel is added in this way is to flavour the pudding with a small quantity of rum. Two tablespoonfuls of nun added to a maca- roni pudding will give it a vei-y rich and delicious flavour. The rum, lemon-peel, sugar, and egg together supply a cheap but most delicious dish. A little nut- meg should then be grated over the top, but avoid using too much. Macaroni pudding can also be flavoured with ginger, mace, or cinnamon; but mace is very inferior to nutmeg. Orange-peel can also be used instead of lemon-peel. The sugar should be rubbed on the out- side of the orange, but avoid using the juice of the orange or the juice of the lemon, as it will be apt to curdle the milk. When the pudding is properly flavoured let it be baked in the oven till the edges of the pastry are done. By this means the whole pudding will set, according to the quantity of eggs put in, more or less firmly, and it will some what resemble baked custard pudding, with the macaroni in the middle. This pudding is extremely nourishing. An- other form is as follows The macaroni must be boiled in milk or water, sweet- ened and flavoured. An ordinary pud- ding-basin can now be lined with suet- paste, and the interior of the pudding filled with sweet-flavoured macaroni, exactly as if it were cun-ants and rasp- berries, and the pudding tied up in a cloth and boiled in the ordinary way. Macaroni is sometimes used as an orna- ment for making a small dish of mince. Take, say, a cup or a very small basin. Suppose we have before us a rich dish of mince made from chicken or veal, -with mushrooms, etc. First butter the basin i somewhat thickly ; take a little maca- roni, parboil it, and take it out of the water when it is sufficiently moist to be cut but still is somewhat hard. Now take the pipe macaroni and cut it into I little pieces about an eighth of an inch in length. This will make, of course, some minute rings. Stick these little rings in the butter as close together as possible, beginning at the bottom of the basin till the whole of the inside of the basin is covered. Now put in the mince and make the whole hot in the oven. Place a plate over it and turn it out. The mince will now present a very pretty appearance. It is entirely covered over with little white rings of macaroni. This makes a very pretty dish, and the cook can render it still prettier by sprinkling a little chopped parsley over the mould when it is turned out. The ways of dressing macaroni are too nume- rous to be given in the present work, but I would recommend those who would like to know how a very great variety can be made to see the receipts in “Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery.” Macaroni can be served with mush- rt>oms; this is a very common form of serving macaroni in Italy. MACE.—Mace is a well-know spice, largely used in cooking. It is used not only for flavoux-ing sweets, but also soups and sauces. Francatelli i-ecom- mends, in making nearly every kind of soup in large quantities, to add a blade or two of mace, according to the quan- tity. I would, however, warn cooks against using too much mace. Those persons who have ever bought slabs of that mottled substance sola as mock-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 93 turtle soup at ham - and - beef shops, which is made from pig’s-head instead of calves’-head, will know how very highly-spiced the compound is, and how very largely the soup made from these slabs tastes of spice. This spicy flavour is entirely owing to the large quantity of mace which is added. This flavour of mace is very good, but the common mistake made is ex- cess of quantity. In making mulled ; claret a small quantity of mace and cinnamon forms the best flavouring. [ When this flavouring is required for mulled claret it is always best to put the mace and cinnamon into a little plain water in a saucepan and let it boil gently by itself for some time. When sufficient flavour has been extracted add the sugar. If the sugar were added before, the whole would boil over, owing to the presence of the sugar. When the sugar is dissolved, add the claret. Do not heat the claret beyond the tem- perature required for drinking. The moment it is over-heated the whole of j the spirit evaporates, and the mixture j is apt to turn acid. If possible, a wine- j glass of good old brandy should be ; added. When mace is used for flavour- i ing puddings, sweets, etc., the most j convenient form is to buy it ready ground. The flavour of mace is, of course, very similar to that of nutmeg ; indeed mace is simply the outer shell of the nutmeg itself. MACE, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of ! mace is a very convenient form of im- | parting the flavour of mace to various I kinds of puddings and sweets. Like all other essences, it must be used with extreme caution. Three or four drops I of the essence are amply sufficient to flavour a pint of fluid. When more are used the dish will probably be spoiled. All these essences are very useful, if only the cook will bear in mind the necessity of caution in using them. MACEDOINES.—There is probably no j form of tinned vegetables so useful to the cook as macedoines. The better the cook the more useful will they be found. Macedoines are simply, as the word im- plies, a mixture of different kinds of vegetables, the ingredients being car- rot, turnip, green peas, etc. Perhaps the most useful form of using mace- doines is to make soup at a few moments’ notice. A tin of macedoines added to some good, bright, clear stock trans- forms the stock into spring soup. _ The macedoines simply require warming up in the stock, which can then bo served. Under the heading of Extract of Meat, I have already given directions how to make stock at a few minutes’ notice. With the assistance of some of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat and a tin of macedoines the cook can always send up a nice tureenful of good, bright, clear, rich soup, at a quarter of an hour’s notice. Another very useful form in which macedoines can be served is that of German salad. Take a tin of macedoines, open them, turn them out, and dry them in a cloth. Then (although this is not necessary) the cook can slice Up the remains of any cold potatoes that may be in the house— and there are few houses in which pota- toes are not left cold in the larder. Next add a little chopped parsley, and dress the salad in the ordinary method —namely, add first of all the oil, toss the salad well together in it, as every particle of vegetable should be slightly oiled over before any vinegar is added. Pepper and salt may be mixed up in a spoon with the oil. Then add one-third of the quantity of vinegar to the oil, and again toss it lightly together. By adding the oil first, and well mixing up the salad, you avoid the vegetables soaking up the vinegar and thus becom- ing more acid in one part than in another. A salad of this description may be im- proved by spreading a thin film of bloater paste or anchovy paste on these slices of potato, which can then be cut up into the same size as the macedoines, and all tossed together and dressed. Mace- doines form an excellent salad also that can be served with a variety of cold dishes. For instance, take the case of a tin of larks (larks stuffed with truffles are now sold in tins). Take the larks out of the tin, and remove as much as possi- ble of the fat which surrounds them by placing them for a few minutes in the oven. The larks can now be glazed a bright colour and placed round side by side in a silver dish. The centre can be filled up with a tin of macedoines piled up, and the exterior can be ornamented with aspic jelly (see Larks, Truffled). Aspic jelly is now sold in bottles of various sizes. No good housekeeper who values appearances should ever be with- out a bottle of aspic jelly in the storeCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S cupboard. By its means any cold dish can be made handsome at a few minutes’ notice, more especially if she also take the precaution to have by her a small quantity of glaze. Macedoines can also be used as a garnish for different dishes served hot. One of the prettiest dishes in which macedoines can be brought into use is mutton cutlets with mace- doines. First of all, with regard to cutlets, which can be either cooked plain on a gridiron, or fried after having been egged or bread-crumbed. I would here advise housekeepers strongly on the subject of mutton cutlets cut from loin of mutton. There are few dishes more wasteful than roast loin of mutton, so often met with in English households. Where young children are concerned, and are made to finish up all they take, perhaps the dish is not so very extravagant, but in the houses of other persons, who are at liberty to leave what they lilce, it will be too often found that loin of mutton is treated as follows—the bone is left half picked on the plate, and very often the end is left entirely. Now in ordi- nary households it is extremely un- pleasant to be placed in the dreadful alternative of waste on the one hand or warming-up and using what is left on the plates on the other. For my own part I should be in favour of using up the bones on the plates. There is a good deal of nonsense about the horror of using-up pieces left. Still it is a dis- agreeable subject, and the best way to overcome the difficulty is as follows :— Take a loin of mutton and bone it. If ou do not know how to bone it, get the utcher to do it. However, boning is a very simple process. The great secret of all success in boning is this—never let the edge of the knife leave the bone. By this means, and this means only, there will be no waste. The boning having been successfully accomplished, the bones, which will be very bare, can be used for making soup; part of the fat can be trimmed off and run down for dripping. The end can be cut off, trimmed, and made into a nice little dish, Irish stew being the best form in which it can be served. The ends can be stewed for a long time, as they are considerably tougher than the other part, and an Irish stew forms a very excellent method of serving up these ends. Now with regard to the prime part itself. Cut the cutlets in slices rather less than half an inch in thick- ness. Now that the whole of the bone has been removed there is no difficulty in cutting them. If the bone had been left in tire cutlets would have been very unequal in thickness. Next give each piece of meat a slap with the side of the chopper. Then flour it, dip it in beaten-up egg, and cover it with some dry bread-crumbs. Add a little pepper and salt. If the cutlets are required to be very nice, various other tilings may be added. For instance, a little dry mushroom-powder, a little powdered dried truffle, some dried scraped ham, etc., can be pressed into the raw meat before it is floured. When the cutlets are dry dip them in well beaten up egg, and then cover them with some very dry bread-crumbs. Put the cutlets by ready for use. There is a very great art in serving mutton cutlets. The chief secret is this—the cutlets should not be cooked till the very last moment. Good mutton cutlets should be a bright golden-brown outside, and when cut they should be red inside. How rarely this is the case housekeepers know to their cost. It is indeed very rare. I will take the case of a dinner party at which mutton cutlets are to be served as an entree after fish and soup. Have the cutlets ready for cooking, the outside being thoroughly dry. Have over the fire plenty of smoking-hot lard. My own impression as to the temperature is that it should be about 350“. Cutlets also can be fried in oil. Cooks do not realise how very much greater the heat of fat should be than the_ tempera- ture of boiling water. The kind of fat used is immaterial. It may be good beef dripping, butter, lard, or oil, and very little difference is there between them. One essential is that they should be properly heated. Sir Henry Thomp- son, in his book on food, states that the temperature should be 500°. I feel consi- derable difficulty in differing from so very high an authority on a matter of science, but I do think this heat some- what excessive. We will suppose the cutlets are now prepared. The cook should be requested to wait until she sees the dirty fish plates making their appearance, showing that the fish course has been eaten. Then take the cutlets, place them in a wire basket; and plunge them into the fat heated to the degree IHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 95 have mentioned—namely, from 350° upwards. It would probably astonish a great many “ good plain cooks ” to be told that thirty seconds is sufficient to cook the cutlets. Should they have been cut as thin as I have mentioned, and should the fat be heated to the degree named, this will be sufficient—a little over thirty seconds will cook the cutlets. When done they should be a rich, deli- cate brown colour, and the inside when exit will*be red and very hot. In the meantime the macedoines must be pre- pared. I would remind cooks that, as perhaps a minute or two will elapse between the time when the cutlets are taken from the fat and handed round in the dining-room, the cooldng process of the meat continues for a considerable period after the cutlets have been taken outof the fat. Weall kuowthat if an egg, which consists of albumen, is cracked the instant it is taken from the saucepan, the white will be slightly fluid. But if we allow the egg to remain three or four minutes before it is opened it will be, comparatively speaking, hard. The simple reason is that the cooking pro- cess goes on in the egg, which has only been exposed to a temperature of 212°, whereas the cutlets have been exposed to a temperature of nearly 400°, conse- quently when the cutlet is takerf out of tne fat the meat inside still continues to feel the effect of the heat, which causes the cooking to go on in all direc- tions equally. It is quite possible that were you to take the cutlet out of the fat, throw it on to a plate, and cut it open, it would be blue in the middle. Wait two minutes and the cutlet will cease to be blue. The tin of macedoines should be warmed-up in a small enamel- led saucepan. The macedoines may be first heated in the tin itself, and the liquor strained off, or the macedoines themselves turned into a saucepan. Then a good spoonful of white sauce should be added to them, or, still better, sauce supreme. When good white sauce cannot be obtained add a good- sized piece of butter. Toss the mace- doines lightly together, and add a little better than a teaspoonful of finely chop- ed parsley. The macedoines should e turned into a dish, and the cutlets placed round them side by side. In order to make the dish look very pretty little paper frills should be added to the cutlets. These frills can be bought ready made, and they can be fastened on to a small piece of stick which can stuck into the cutlet. When the cutlets are not previously boned the frill can be tied round the bone itself. When the flavour of garlic is not objected to,. the macedoines can be warmed up in a saucepan the bottom of which can be rubbed over with a bead of garlic pre- vious to warming the macedoines. Macedoines will be found by house- keepers extremely useful to have al- ways in the house. By then- means, as I have before said, a pretty dish can be made at a few minutes’ notice, of either .soup, hot vegetables, cold salad, etc. They can also be used for garnish- ing every kind of cold meat or cold poultry. They are already cooked, and simply require warming up if wanted hot, or can be eaten as they are if wanted cold. MACKEREL, TINNED.—Tinned mac- kerel forms an excellent dish for either breakfast or luncheon. It is best eaten cold, with a little lemon juice and cayenne pepper or a little plain black pepper and vinegar. Tinned mackerel is also very nice served with salad and dressed with oil and vinegar in the ordinary way. MADEIRA JELLY.—Madeira jelly can now be obtained in bottles containing quarts, pints, and half-pints. The jelly should be melted by being placed in some warm water. Care should be taken not to make the jelly too hot, as it is apt to get cloudy should it be heated above a certain point. As soon as the jelly is sufficiently melted it can be poured into a mould, and when set turned out in the ordinary way. In cold weather Madeira jelly will bear the addition of a little more wine, as these jellies are made so as to be firm in summer as well as winter. MALT VINEGAR.—See Vinegar. MANGO CHUTNEY.—See Chutney. MANGO RELISH.—Mango relish is a species of pickle, and is made from a famous receipt by Colonel Skinner, who is also famed for his chutney, known as “ Colonel Skinner’s Mango Chutney.” Mango relish forms a very agreeable accompaniment to cold meat of every description, as well as to hashes, stews.93 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S gravies, etc. Mango relish is also very nice with broiled fish of all kinds. MANGOES, PICKLED.—Mangoes can be obtained pickled in oil and vinegar. They are a very popular pickle with per- sons who are fond of somewhat acid pickles. Each mango in the pickle has been opened, and contains a small quan- tity of chilies and capers, these having been added before it was pickled. MARASCHINO.—Maraschino is gene: rally esteemed as one of the most deli- cately flavoured liqueurs. In addition to its being drank as a liqueur, one well- known use to which it is turned is that of making a most delicious sweet—viz., maraschino jelly. In making mara- schino jelly it is best first of all to make a jelly of a pint of clarified syrup and isinglass, to which can be added the juice of two lemons. When this is nearly cold maraschino should be added. The quantity of maraschino to be added to this is about a gill and a half. The jelly can be slightly coloured sufficient to give it a certain tone, as otherwise it will be pale and unappetising. The cook should be careful not to add the maraschino till the jelly is very nearly cold, as otherwise the delicate flavour of the maraschino will escape. Care should also be taken to see that the jelly will turn out (see Chartreuse Jelly). Maraschino is used for making a variety of sweets. For instance, one very well- known delicious sweet is maraschino Bavarian cream, to make which M. Francatelli recommends as follows :— Whip a pint of double cream until it presents somewhat the appearance of snow, taking care not to overdo it, as it would then produce butter. When the cream is whipped add one ounce and a half of clarified isinglass and a gill and a half of genuine maraschino, the juice of a lemon, and four ounces of powdered sugar. Mix these well together and pour the cream into a mould, previously very slightly oiled inside with oil of sweet almonds. Set the cream in rough ice, and when it has become firm turn it out on to its dish. The mould having been oiled prevents the necessity of dipping this delicate cream into warm water previous to turning it out. This kind of cream may also be flavoured with all kinds of liqueurs, and also with essence of oranges, lemon and orange- flower, vanilla, roses, and bitter al- monds. Maraschino is a very excellent liqueur for flavouring claret cup. For this purpose I think it surpasses any other liqueur. The next best liqueur for this purpose is undoubtedly noyeau. In flavouring claret cup witl'i maraschino housekeepers should be careful not to use too large a quantity. Suppose a claret cup is made from a quart bottle of claret, two or three slices of lemon, one bottle of soda-water, a little syj-up, and a strip of cucumber peel, the amount of maraschino added should be barely more than a teaspoonful. This will be suffi- cient to give the claret cup a tone with- out doing away witli the flavour of the claret. Should the claret cup be made from very inferior claret indeed, it would be as well to add a little more maraschino ; but good claret cup cannot be made from bad claret. MARASCHINO, ESSENCE OF. — Es- sence of maraschino is a cheap and quick form of imparting the flavour of maraschino to puddings, cakes, etc. Like essence of almonds, it is very strong, and a few drops will be amply sufficient to flavour a considerable quan- tity of fluid. Essence of maraschino can be used for flavouring claret cup. In usipg this essence it is always de- sirable to drop it into a spoon, when, should an accidental shake of the hand cause too much to come from the bot- tle, the mistake can be rectified without spoiling the whole quanity. MARJORAM, ESSENCE OF. — The | flavour of marjoram is very useful for i soups, sausages, etc. A quick way of i imparting the flavour of marjoram is by means of the essence. It should be used with caution, a few drops only being as a rule sufficient to flavour a considerable quantity. When essence of marjoram is used for flavouring any solid substance it should be carefully mixed with a small quantity of fluid or butter, otherwise one part will be found to contain more of the flavour of mar- joram than another. MARMALADE.—There are various kinds of marmalade, the best known, of course, being orange marmalade. In addition to orange marmalade, there is lemon marmalade, peach marmalade, apricot marmalade, quince marmalade, etc. A description of all these marma-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. i)7 lades will be found under their respec- tive headings. MAYONNAISE SAUCE.—Many cooks experience considerable difficulty in making mayonnaise sauce. Beginners in the art of cooking cannot comprehend the fact that two fluids put together— viz., oil and yolks of eggs—should, when simply mixed with a fork in a basin, be converted into almost a solid, like butter. Such, however, is the fact. In making mayonnaise sauce the oil must be poured drop by drop on the yolk of egg, and the whole beaten till it becomes thicker and thicker. By adding more oil the mayonnaise sauce finally assumes the form of butter, when it can be spread over the surface of solids, such as chickens, etc. One very convenient form of having mayonnaise sauce, which is troublesome to make, especially in hot weather, is to buy it ready-made. A really good and first-class mayonnaise sauce is now supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, and housekeepers who at times require a salad in a hurry would do well to always have a bottle of mayonnaise sauce in the house. There are few dishes, especially in summer, more tempting than mayonnaise salad, which can be made with lettuce plain. It is generally accompanied with some kind of fish or meat. For instance, we can have mayonnaise salad with cold boiled salmon, or a salmon salad mayonnaise made with thin slices of smoked salmon, which forms a most delicious salad, the great art being to cut the smoked salmon as thin as possible; indeed, it should be cut so as not to be thicker than a five-pound note. Mayonnaise salad is frequently made with filleted soles and various kinds of cold fish—turbot, brill, etc. Perhaps the most convenient form of mayonnaise salad is lobster salad. This can be made from fresh lobster or tinned lobster. The general fault with lobster salads, especially those that are obtained in restaurants, is that there is an in- sufficiency of lobster. A most delicious mayonnaise salad can also be made with shrimps. The shrimps, of course, re- quire picking, and two quarts of shrimps when picked will not yield more than about a pint. One very nice but some- what expensive mayonnaise salad can be made from prawns. When a salad is made from prawns, five or six of the largest and finest should be selected to ornament the dish, and the remainder of the prawns be picked. In making salad of this kind cooks should always scrape out from the head of the prawn the little soft meat, as this very greatly assists the flavour of the salad. In addition to these fish salads there are a large num- ber of salads made from meat, one of the nicest being that of chicken. When salad is made of chicken the meat should be cut from the bone and every partide of skin and gristle removed. First-class chicken salad should con- tain only the white part of the meat. Cold turkey, especially the breast, makes an excellent mayonnaise salad. One great advantage of mayonnaise sauce is that it always makes an ex- tremely handsome dish. I will endea- vour as well as I can to describe how to ornament a mayonnaise salad of >any description, but of course no amount of written description would be equal to a lesson learned by seeing one done. Cer- tainly in this respect our French neigh- bours are far superiorto ourselves. There is a refinement of taste in French cooking which it is to be regretted English cooks do not more readily copy. I will now give a general outline of the best method of ornamenting mayonnaise salad. We will take the case of an ordinary lobster salad. First of all the lettuce should be thoroughly cleaned and dried, and placed at the bottom of the dish, and as much as possible formed into a mound in the middle. The whole meat of the lobster, or fish, or meat of any descrip- tion, is now placed on the top, and should be made as smooth as possible. Next with a silver knife or spoon the whole of the surface is masked over with the thick white creamy-looking sauce. Very often in making mayon- naise sauce at home the cook will not be able to get it sufficiently thick; in the case of preserved mayonnaise sauce, however, there is no difficulty. It is made just the right consistency, and the whole surface can be masked over. Next take a small quantity of chopped parsley, about enough to cover a six- pence. Place the chopped parsley at the end of a knife and flip it, holding the knife about a foot above the salad. Let the little green specks fall naturally over the surface of the sauce. Next take an equal quantity of lobster coral and act in like manner. In ornament- H08 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S ing the surface of sauce with green and red specks the cook should be careful not to overdo it. A very few will set off the appearance of the dish; too much, however, will not improve it, as we do not wish to lose too much of the white surface. Next a few green capers can be stuck in the sauce lightly at in- tervals of an inch or an inch and a half apart. Then round the base of the white mayonnaise should be placed a I trellis-work of filleted anchovies (spe An- | chovies, TO Fillet’), which will greatly [ improve the appearance of the salad. | This can be placed alternately with cut pickled French beans. The base of the salad should now be ornamented with hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. A more expensive but very pretty gar- nish can be made by placing plovers’ eggs round the edge of the salad. In ; addition to this a few stoned olives | should always be added to every mayon- ! naise salad (see Olives, to Stone). In j England it is a very common custom to | place slices of cucumber round the bases ! of salads. In the case of salmon salad j this is certainly an agreeable addition. With all kinds of salads made with meat I think a very great improvement is to place thin slices of pickled gherkins ' round the base of the salad. This is invariably the custom abroad, but it is not so common in England. In ornamenting mayonnaise salad, when it is possible, the last addition should be a few small crayfish. A small crayfish placed on the top, and one in each cor- ner, making five in all, makes a very pretty garnish, and is especially suit- able for lobster salads of all kinds. Mayonnaise sauce is also the base of several other sauces, one of the nicest of which is known as Tartar sauce, a very excellent accompaniment to grilled sal- mon, fried eels, etc. Take two or three tablespoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce, say three tablespoonfuls, add to this a piece of shalot about the size of the thumb down to the first joint, chopped fine, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and a teaspoonful of French mustard, fla- voured with tarragon, or if that cannot be obtained, add a little ordinary mus- tard. This sauce should be kept in a cool place. When cooks wish to make what may be termed fancy salads, they should bear in mind that mayonnaise sauce is easily coloured by the addition of ordinary vegetable colouring matter. (See Vegetable Colouking.) By this means you can have yellow mayonnaise, red mayonnaise, green mayonnaise, etc. However, the plain mayonnaise sauce itself, when properly ornamented, 5s, I think, the best form of serving it up. MEAT, EXTRACT OF.—See Extbact oe Meat. MEAT LOZENGES.-—Meatlozcng es are a very convenient form of having con centrated nourishment always at hand. They will be found particularly useful to persons with somewhat delicate sto- machs who indulge in walking tours. They are also often used by invalids who are apt at times, owing to sleep- lessness at night, to feel exhausted. A few meat lozenges placed in the mouth afford great relief. MEATS, POTTED.—Potted meats and fish are extremely convenient forms of having nice-looking breakfast or lun- cheon dishes always ready at a moment’s notice. The majority of tinned meats are also very convenient for cooking purposes, as they assist the cook in making forcemeat. The following pot- ted meats and fish are supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell:—An- chovy paste (which can be obtained in fancy pots, in bottles, in glass jars, and in tins), bloater paste (which is also supplied in tins, pots, jars, and fancy pots), devilled ham, French anchovy paste, potted beef, potted ham, potted tongue, potted ham and tongue, potted Sti’asburg meats, etc., also pate au diallc, potted game, potted lobster, potted salmon, potted shrimps, potted Oxford brawn, etc. A description of all these will he found under their re- spective headings. METZ FRUITS.—A very varied as- sortment of crystallised fruits are now supplied in boxes, and known as Metz fruits. These boxes contain quantities varying from a quarter of a pound to two pounds. MILK, CONDENSED.—Condensed milk is now used in very large quanti- ties in this country. Considering how great the difficulty is of obtaining really pure milk, especially in ’arge towns, condensed milk is a great boon toHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 99 housekeepers. It is a thick, creamy substance, somewhat resembles honey in appearance, and contains a consider- able quantity of sugar. Condensed milk is very useful in making all kinds of sweets. A mixture of condensed milk and ordinary milk forms an ex- cellent substitute for cream when sugar is to be added to any dish. Condensed milk also contains a considerable amount of nourishment. For instance, I will take that very popular and simple pud- ding so well adapted for children known as baked rice-pudding. Take, say, a pint or rather more of ordinary milk, add to it a tablespoonful of Swiss milk, and let it boil in a saucepan with the lice. Let it boil gently till almost the whole of the milk is absorbed and the rice has become tender. Of course, this is a matter of taste. Some persons prefer baked rice-pudding very milky, and others like it almost solid. As a rule, the amount of sugar contained in the Swiss milk is sufficient to sweeten the pudding. If it be liked very sweet more sugar can be added. When the rice is tender put the whole into a pie-dish and bake it for some time in the oven, after having grated a little nutmeg over the surface. Should the rice-pudding be required very rich, one or more whole eggs may be added, or, still better, only the yolks of eggs. Swiss milk will be found a great improvement to custards. In making ordinary custards five eggs are generally added to a pint of milk, though four are as a rule amply suffi- cient. Before adding the eggs dissolve in the milk a tablespoonful of condensed milk, and boil three or four bay-leaves in it. Take out the bay-leaves, add the eggs, and place the whole in a jug. Place the jug in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep stirring till the cus- tard is sufficiently thick, then take the jug out of the boiling water, but continue stirring. Now plunge the jug into some cold water, and con- tinue stirring till the custard begins to get tolerably cool. If you take the jug out of the boiling water and cease stirring at once the custard will very often get lumpy. Condensed milk forms a very nice cream, so to speak, to be eaten with straw- berries, raspberries, and other fruit. Take some ordinary milk, and add sufficient condensed milk to make it the conjiiatenoy of ordinary cream. Of course, owing to the sugar in the con- densed milk, the fruit will require very little sugar to be added, as would be the case were ordinary cream used. Condensed milk is now largely used throughout London for the purpose of making ices. Of course when ice- vendors who sell ice in the streets at a penny a glass assure their customers that it is made from pure cream it is obvious to any one that it would be im- possible that this could be done for the money. No cream whatever is used, as a rule, but milk and Swiss milk instead. Ices are by no means the expensive luxury that some persons imagine. The mere fact that a very palatable ice can be sold in the streets at a penny a glass and a living obtained by the profit ought to teach people this. A small freezing apparatus is almost the only expense to which housekeepers need go in having ices made at home. When fruit is in season a little fruit mixed with milk and Swiss milk can easily be frozen, and in hot weather it is a very grateful addition to a good dinner. Preserved apricots and peaches, as well as pre- served pineapple, can also be used for making ices. MILK-PUNCH.—Probably most of us associate milk-punch with turtle soup. Certainly, so rich and delicious a soup requires a delicate-flavoured liqueur to follow it. I will not now enter into the vexed question as to whether turtle soup should be followed by a glass of madeira or a glass of punch. Turtle soup, when made in perfection, of course is very rich and glutinous. The beauty of milk-punch is that it has the effect of cleansing the palate. Milk-punch can also be used for making punch jelly. MINCEMEAT. — Mincemeat is now supplied ready-made. Cooks who have gone through the trouble of making it will appreciate the advantage of being able to obtain mincemeat made in this form. Of course, in large families at Christmas time, especially where there are children, it is very satisfactory to have home-made mincemeat. There are, however, hundreds of thousands of families who rarely require mincemeat, except once a year, and that is at Christmas. To these a jar of preserved mincemeat will be very acceptable, as it is not a compound which can possibly bo100 CROSSE AND made in small quantities. The great drawback, to my mind, in making mince-pies is that too often the cook will not put in the pie sufficient mince- meat. A good mmce-pie should be crammed full of mincemeat, and the pie itself should be sufficiently hot to burn the mouth. There is, perhaps, no sweet for which heat is so essential as mince-pie. Mincemeat can, however, be used for other purposes than making mince-pies. One very delicious dish can be made as follows :—Take some slices of bread, thickly buttered—stale bread can be used for the purpose ; place the slices in a pie-dish and spread them with some mincemeat. Now fill up the dish with ordinary custard and bake in an oven. This bread-and-butter pudding with mincemeat is extremely good. A still richer dish can be made as fol- lows :—Take some stale sponge-cake or any pound-cake ; cut it in slices ; spread each slice with a layer of mincemeat, and place the whole in a pie-dish. Fill it up with custard and bake till the custard is set. This can be eaten either hot or cold. Perhaps on the whole it is nicer hot. It is, however, exceedingly rich and very delicious, and, to my mind, a nicer way of serving mincemeat than mince-pie. MIRABELLES. — Mirabelles are a species of small plum, which can be had either crystallised or glacee. They form a nice addition to a, dish of crystallised fruits. MINT, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of mint is a very useful form of quickly impart- ing the flavour of mint when such flavour is required. Like other essences, it must be used with caution. Three or four drops of essence are amply sufficient to flavour a considerable quantity of fluid. In using any kind of essence I would advise the cook always to drop the essence into a spoon first, so that if accidentally too large a quantity is poured out the mistake can be rectified without spoiling the whole quantity. MIXED FRUITS IN JELLY. — See Fruits. MIXED FRUITS IN SYRUP. —See Fruits. MIXED FRUITS IN NOYEAU OR BRANDY.—See Fruits. BLACKWELL'S MIXED SPICES.—See Spices. MIXED PICKLES.-See Pickles. MOCK-TURTLE SOUP.—Mock-turtle soup is probably one of the most popular soups in tills country. Certainly good mock-turtle soup forms a very agreeable luncheon or supper, especially in cold weather. As mock-turtlesoup can now be obtained in tins, this is a very con- venient form of having it always ready hi the house, as the tin can be wanned up late at night, without giving trouble to servants, by placing it for twenty minutes in a saucepan of boiling water ; the saucepan can be boiled over a spirit- lamp or gas-jet. The mock-turtle soup sold in tins can be altered in flavour after the tin is opened. Cooks, therefore, who know their masters’ taste oan flavour the soup after the tin is opened. The tin of mock-turtle soup will bear the addition of a little stock. Should the flavour of herbs be. desired, a des- sert-spoonful of mixed flavouring herbs may be boiled for about twenty minutes in some stock, which can then be added to the soup. Then add a dessert-spoon- ful of brown thickening. Dissolve this in the soup and let the soup boil. When tinned soup has this addition made to it it will require a little more wine. A tablespoonful of good old sherry—or, better still, madeira—is the best for this purpose. Should the soup be required very rich and nourishing, a good brimming teaspoonful of extract of meat should be added. Another im- provement to mock-turtle soup is a few egg-balls. Take a couple of yolks of hard-boiled eggs — the egg having been boiled sufficiently long to make the yolks crumble to powder when opened; add to these powdered yolks a small quantity of chopped parsley and a little pepper and salt. Nowjadd a raw yolk, and mix the whole together till it becomes a stiffish paste; then roll it up into small balls, the size of a toy marble, and throw them into boiling water. The boiling water will of course cause the balls to set, and they can then be added to the soup. When mock-turtle soup is served at table it is always advisable to hand round with it a little cut lemon and cayenne pepper. MOGUL OR CHUTNEY SAUCE.—Mo- gul or chutney sauce is a warm sauce sold in bottles, and forms an agreeableHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 101 ■ relish with cold meat. It can also be used to flavour various kinds of hashes, stews, etc. MONTSERRAT CORDIAL.—See Aro- matic Cordial. MORELLA CHERRIES.—See Cher- ries, Morella. MULLIGATAWNY PASTE.—Mulliga- tawny paste is very similar to curry paste, but differs from it slightly as it is somewhat more delicate in flavour, and the difference renders it better adapted to make mulligatawny soup than_ or- dinary curry paste. There are various kinds of mulligatawny paste, perhaps the best of which is that known as Cap- tain White’s. There is also Fyzool’s mulligatawny paste, Barrie and Co.’s mulligatawny paste, and Cook’s mulli- gatawny paste. These pastes are, of course, used for making mulligatawny soup. Good mulligatawny soup cannot be made without good stock ; it also re- quires the presence of either chicken or rabbit. Sometimes mulligatawny soup is made with veal, and pieces of veal served up in the soup, but the best of all is a young, tender rabbit. The bones of the rabbit should be used for assisting to make stock. The rabbit itself should be only boiled sufficiently long to be cooked and tender. The meat may then be removed from the bones and put by till the soup is wanted to be served, for often in making mulliga- tawny soup the cook will leave the meat in the soup for hours. When this is done of course the meat is very greatly over- boiled, and presents the appearance of what is known as having been “boiled to rags.” Mulligatawny soup requires brown roux to tliicken it. Great care should be taken when brown roux is used to get rid of all the fat, which can only be done by allowing the soup to simmer gently by the side of the fire, and occasionally skimming it, throwing in from time to time a little cold water, which helps the soup to throw up the fat. Mulligatawny soup is often recom- mended to persons who suffer from in- digestion. One very common cause of indigestion is the carelessness of the cook in not removing the fat from rich soup. Mulligatawny paste should be added in sufficient quantity to give it the flavour required. Some persons like it hotter than others. It will also be found an advantage to boil a few bay-leaves in the soup. Boiled rice should always be handed round with mulligatawny soup, not placed in the soup itself. (For a receipt for boiling rice, see Curried Meats, Halford’s. ) MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. — Mulliga- tawny soup can now be obtained in tins. The soup can be warmed up in the tin by immersing it in a saucepan of boiling water for about twenty minutes, when ! the tin can be opened and the contents : turned out and served. The cook, how- I ever, can exercise her discretion, when she knows her master’s taste, to alter the soup accordingly. For instance, •some persons like mulligatawny, much hotter than others. When it is required very hot a little mulligatawny paste, or curry paste, or curry powder can be ! added to the soup. The soup can also j be increased in bulk by the addition of ! a little stock. When stock is added it i is as well to add also a little brown roux. I This, with a little care, will enable an | ordinary tin of soup to be made enough i for three or four persons. When no j curry powder or curry paste is to be obtained the soup can, of course, be improved, so far as heat is concerned, by the addition of a little ordinary cayenne pepper. MUSHROOMS.—By far the safest and most convenient form of obtaining mushrooms is to buy them in tins. Of course I do not mean to maintain that tinned mushrooms are suited for cook- ing in certain forms like fresh-gathered mushrooms. We all know how nice a dish mushrooms make when cooked fresh—simply grilled on the gridiron or fried in a little butter in a fry- ing-pan, with some pepper and salt. Tinned mushrooms cannot be fried this way, but for all other purposes —such as making sauces, forcemeats, etc.—they are far superior to fresh, and possess the very great advantage of being safe. The number of deaths that have occurred from eating poisonous mushrooms is, alas! very great. I would warn amateurs, especially “ cockneys,” against gathering mushrooms them- selves. It is exceedingly difficult to distinguish the wholesome from the un- wholesome kinds. As Dr. Badham justly observes, the majority of fungi are harmless, but his account of the102 CBOSSE AND BLACKWELL'S poisonous effects of the minority, and the post-mortem appearance of the organs of those who have died through partaking of them, are enough to alarm the most stout - hearted. Preserved mushrooms are used for making pro- bably the majority of what may be termed “ made dishes.” There is, per- haps, no one single material used in cooking that would be so much missed by the cook as mushrooms. Proba- bly the most common form in which they are served throughout this coun- try is that of mushroom sauce. This can be made either brown or white, and there are also two distinct me- thods of preparing it—one in which the mushrooms are rubbed through a wire sieve, and the sauce served as a puree, and the other in which the mush- rooms are chopped up very fine and served in the sauce in little pieces. First I will describe how to make white mushroom sauce very good:—Take a tin of mushrooms, chop them up, and add a small quantity of lemon juice. (This assists the sauce to keep its colour, though very little lemon juice need be used in the case of tinned mushrooms. But this is very important should the sauce be made from fresh mushrooms.) Then stew them for a short time in a small quantity of good white sauce, after which rub the whole through a wire sieve, and then add about an equal quantity of boiling cream. Brown mushroom sauce is made by stewing the mushrooms for a short time in some good, rich, brown gravy, and nibbing the whole through a wire sieve, when the consistency of this mushroom sauce should be about that of double cream. I have on several occasions in the present work mentioned double cream as a standard of consistency. Perhaps, how- ever, there are many—especially those who live in London—who have not only never seen double cream, but Oven cream itself. Indeed, pure cream is almost unobtainable in London. The consistency of double cream is about the same as that of ordinary gruel. If white mushroom sauce is required, and cream cannot be obtained, the sauce can be made as follows :—Get some good white stock and reduce it till it is almost a glaze; then add to it half a pint of boiling milk; put in the mushrooms, and let them stew in the white sauce a short time ; then rub it through a wire sieve. A little pepper and salt should • be added according to taste. The other mushroom sauce I have mentioned is, of course, less troublesome, and cooks too often object to the process known as rubbing through a sieve. Instead of rubbing the mushrooms through a sieve they are chopped fine before being added to the sauce. Mushrooms form the base of so many delicious flavourings that space will not allow me to give more than a few of the most useful and gene- rally known methods of using them. I will take first of all that delicious dish known as sole an gratin. I would here also mention that there are many kinds of fish which can be cooked in the same way. For instance, we can have fresh haddocks nil gratin, lemon sole au gratin, and, indeed, almost any kind of white fi«h. However, the sole is un- doubteclly the best. Take a large 6ole, dry it, flour it, dip it in well-beaten-up yolk of egg, and sprinkle it over with some very fine bread-crumbs. Next take a tin of mushrooms, chop them up fine with a piece of onion about the size of the thumb down to the top joint, add a brimming teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a very small pinch of lemon thyme. Pick out four or five of the best mushrooms and put them by for the purpose of ornamenting the dish. Then chop*up the remainder of the mush* rooms fine and cook them in the frying- pan, with about two ounces or more of butter, with the onion, parsley, and thyme, adding a little pepper and salt to taste. Place the mushrooms, onions, etc., in a baking-tin—which should be, if possible, an oval one, and very little bigger than the sole itself. Now add about half a tablespoonful of good brown gravy to the chopped mush- rooms, etc. Put some of this force- meat at the bottom of the tin and lay the sole on it, and spread the remain- der over it with the butter and gravy, shaking some very fine bread-crumbs over the top. Put this in the oven and let it bake till the sole is done. - This, of course, will entirely depend on the size of the sole. A small sole will be quite done in ten minutes, while a very large one will require five-and-twenty minutes. On taking the tin out of the oven, although the top will be browned over, the sauce itself mil be partially fluid. Add about a teaspoonful of sherry, and just baste the sole a little103 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. with the sauce. Serve it in the tin itself, which should be placed in a dish The sole can now be ornamented with the few mushrooms that are picked out from the tin. These should be glazed over quickly. A convenient form of glazing them is to brush them over with a little soy. This gives them a rich, bright, dark, mahogany-coloured ap- pearance. The biggest can be placed in the oentre of the sole and the re- mainder round its sides. On great occa- sions, also a little fried parsley, as well as a couple of crayfish, one in each comer, may be added. Many persons add a little grated Parmesan cheese. I believe that really good judges of cook- ing think this an improvement. Por my own personal taste, however, I prefer the sole without the cheese. I will now give another dish which is chiefly de- pendent upon mushrooms for its deli- cious flavour—namely, tomatoes au (jratin. Take some large, red, ripe tomatoes. It is no use attempting to cook tomatoes this way when they are half green. Out off the piece by the stalk and give the tomato a squeeze, so as to entirely get rid of all the pips. Take, say, half a dozen tomatoes, and when you have squeezed out the pips put them in a dish for use. Next take a tin of mushrooms, open them, chop them up very fine with a piece of onion the size of the thumb down to the first joint, a brimming teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a saltspoonful of lemon thyme, pepper and salt. Next take about an ounce of raw ham, chop it up very fine, and fry all this in a frying-pan, with some scraped bacon fat, adding sufficient fat to make the whole when cooked the consistency of an ordinary puree. Now fill the six tomatoes with this force- meat, so that the tomatoes resume their original shape. Shake some bread- raspings over the top, then moisten a stewpan with a little oil an eighth of an inch deep, and put the tomatoes in the stewpan. Put on the lid and keep it tightly fastened down by putting a weight on the top. Now stew the toma- toes gently over the fire till they are done, taking care not to overcook them, as if they are overcooked they are apt to burst. Twenty minutes will perhaps be sufficient, and the heat should not be too great. Take them carefully out, place them in the dish, and pour a little rich brown- gravy round the base. This is a very nice entrie. Mushrooms au (jratin can be made from fresh mushrooms exactly in the same way, only you must for this purpose obtain some good cup-mush- rooms, whose diameter should be about a little over three inches. Peel the mushrooms, cut off the stalks, and scrape out the cup till it is quite hol- low. Now chop up all the trimmings that have been removed and proceed exactly as before. Fill the cups with the forcemeat after it has been cooked, shake some bread-raspings over them, and stew them in oil, or they can be placed in a tin in the oven, with a little butter, but they are best cooked the other way. When I mention lemon *thyme as seasoning I suppose it to be dried in bottle ; if fresh thyme is used, a saltspoonful will be far too much. Mushrooms are also' used for making rissoles and kromeskies, a receipt for making which will be found under the heading, Chicken-and-Ham Pates. Mushrooms are also used for making oyster pates from tinned oysters, a re- ceipt for which will be found under the heading of Oystebs, Tinned. Mush- rooms are also essential for making finaneiere ragout, vol-au-vent a la Tou- louse, and a number of other dishes which our present space renders it im- possible to enumerate. MUSHROOM CATSUP. — Mushroom catsup is by far the most useful of all sauces ; indeed, it is the base of nearly every kind of sauce which is made. Mushroom catsup is used for flavouring a very great number of sauces and dishes, but I would here give one word of warning to cooks who are too fond of using it to flavour soups. I have no hesitation in saying that no soup whatever is improved by the addi- tion of mushroom catsup. The essen- tial qualities of good soup are—first, that we should taste the flavour of the meat, and, secondly, that we should get as much nourishment out of the meat as possible. By adding catsup t<« soups you entirely destroy, or, at any rate, obliterate, the flavour of the meat. Catsup can, however, be added to gravy. A little catsup is an improvement to every kind of rich brown gravy, and every kind of white sauce can be im- proved by the addition of a little essence of mushroom when the essence isCEOSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 104 white. Mushroom catsup is extremely useful to assist in flavouring gravies that are intended for any kind of white poultry, such as chicken, turkey, etc. Of course, if chickens are improved by being served with mushroom sauce, when it cannot be obtained they are also improved by being served with fravy that contains mushroom flavour. ’erhaps the most general form of using catsup is to have it with fish. Nearly every kind of fish, boiled or fried, is in England accom- panied by some form of melted butter, and of all the infinite number of sauces which have been invented there are very few indeed that can compare with plain anchovy sauce or simple mush- room catsup. All lovers of good cheer, had they to choose between the alter- native of doing away with these two sauces or all others put together, would never hesitate to accept an- chovy sauce and mushroom catsup. In many parts of the country where mushrooms are obtained, mushroom catsup is often home-made. When the cook is a judge of the difference between wholesome and unwholesome mush- rooms, of course home-made catsup is very excellent; but, like many other things, catsup is far best when made in large quantities. The greatest care is exercised by experienced experts in gathering mushrooms, and as the catsup is, of course, made in enormous quantities, it possesses the advantages which are always to be obtained from skilled labour coupled with per- fect machinery. Many housekeepers are fond of trying experiments in the way of sauces. Mushroom catsup forms the basis, as I have said, of nearly every other kind of sauce. Those who are fond of a variety of sauces would do well to obtain first of all say a quart bottle of mushroom catsup, and then to exercise their fancy in transforming it into any other kind of sauce they may like. For instance, a very nice sauce can be made by stewing some pieces of garlic in a little catsup, adding to this some pulp of fresh tomatoes and some cayenne pepper. So, too, any trimmings that may be obtained from truffles can bb powdered and added to the mushroom catsup with a little cayenne pepper. A very delicious sauce indeed can be made by obtaining a tin of what are known as truffle chips, which now are imported from abroad. Some of these can be pounded in a mortar to a paste ; then add to this some mushroom catsup, cayenne, tomato pulp, etc., and an exceedingly rich and delicious sauce is made. This sauce can be put in a bottle and carefully corked down, the bottle being filled as full as possible, and the cork sealing-waxed over the top. Housekeepers should always be very careful to cork the bottle well down after the catsup has been used, otherwise after a short time a few white specks of mildew will appear on the surface. In such a case the cook has no one to blame but herself, as this is simply owing to its being imperfectly corked. The cook would also do well, when sho has a bottle of catsup in use, to occasionally shake the bottle when she goes to the cupboard for any other purpose. By this means it will be pre- served from turning bad. Various kinds of white stock that have been made from good stock- and cream, such as bechamel, will bear the addition sometimes of a small quantity of mush- room catsup. Only a small quantity should be added, as, of course, it has a tendency to render the whole sauce a bad colour. MUSHROOM POWDER.— Mushroom powder is a very convenient form of imparting the flavour of mushrooms to various dishes. In making hash of any description a spoonful of mushroom powder will be found a great improve- ment. Mushroom powder can also be used when tinned mushrooms are not obtainable for making various kinds of forcemeats, rissoles, kromeskies, etc. I would warn the cook, however, of the importance of keeping this powder in tightly-corked bottles. Cooks would do well to make a trial of mushroom powder. It is a very convenient form of having mushrooms, but they should bear in mind that this mushroom pow- der is literally the mushroom itself, which has been first of all heated, then dried, and then powdered. The best place for keeping it is on the top shelf in the kitchen, which is, as a rule, tolerably dry. MUSHROOMS, PICKLED.—Small but- ton mushrooms can now be obtained in bottles pickled in vinegar. They can be used for all sauces which are slightly105 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. acid. In Germany, and also in Italy, pickled mushrooms are served at the commencement of dinner as an appe- tiser, in connection with many other things of a similar description, such as pickled gherkins, etc. MUSTARD, VARIOUS.—Mustard should be rightly divided into two dis- tinct classes. Tlie first and most gene- ral being English mustard, sold in the form of a bright yellow powder, and the second French mustard, sold in jars in a mixed state, flavoured with a variety of different herbs, etc. As to which is the best, English or French, this is necessarily a matter of taste. The or- dinary English palate, however, will, of course, prefer, as a rule, English mus- tard. It certainly seems to me very barbarous to take a spoonful of French mustard with a nice rump-steak or sir- loin of beef. Of course the universal form of taking mustard is mixed with a little water. It is best to mix the mus- tard with boiling water and let it get cold, and not to put it into the mus- tard-pot until it is cold. It should be mixed in a cup with a spoon, and the mustard worked till the whole is perfectly smooth, for mustard should never be lumpy. We all know the dread- fid mustard-pot which is half full at the bottom while at the top it presents a dirty brown appearance, most unappe- tising. There is so little trouble in mixing mustard that housekeepers should insist on its being mixed in moderate quantities, so that it is not allowed to get stale. Indeed, if mustard be kept too long after it is made it becomes absolutely offensive. Another point housekeepers would do well to remember is to insist on having the mustard-pot always thoroughly cleansed before fresh mustard is put into it. In some houses servants have a very slovenly habit of mixing some fresh mustard and putting it into the mus- tard-pot on the top of the stale, which ought to be first removed. Mustard is not very largely used in cooking, but is generally served by itself. One use to which it can be put is to make mustard sauce, which is very nice, and is gene- rally served with fresh herrings. It is made as follows Make a little good melted butter, or, as it should be called, butter sauce. Add to it two or three spoonfuls of fresh-made mustard, taking care that the mustard is made perfectly smooth. This is handed round with the herrings. Mustard is also used in making Tartar sauce. This is made from mayonnaise sauce, a receipt for which will be found under the heading Mayonnaise Sauce. For the purpose of making Tartar sauce, I think pro- bably French mustard is the best. There is a very great variety of French mustards sold. Of these I may mention Soyer’s aromatic French mustard, and Maille’s French mustard. - Frencli mus- tard is sometimes flavoured with tarra- gon, sometimes with capers, and some- times with fine herbs. One of the most useful forms of using French mustard is in devilling legs of fowls and turkeys. For this purpose the French mustard should be mixed with a considerable quantity of cayenne pepper. The legs snould be cut into strips right down to the bones, parallel, and then this mix- ture of French mustard and cayenne inserted in the slits with a blunt knife. A very nice knife for the purpose is an ordinary ivory paper-knife. The leg should also be smothered over with the mixture, and then grilled over a fierce fire. By this means only can the “ devilling matter,” so to speak, be really introduced into the meat. MUTTON BROTH.—Mutton broth can be obtained in tins. The best way of serving it is to warm the contents of the tin by immersing it in some boiling water, which should be kept boiling for about twenty minutes, when the tin should be opened and the contents turned out. Two or three tins of mut- ton broth should always be kept in country houses which have the disad- vantage of being a long way from the butcher’s. There are often cases in which slight indisposition is cured by a little speedy nourishment. A tin of mutton broth is one of the nicest invalid dishes known. There are often times when invalids feel they loathe any kind of rich soup or high-flavoured sauce. It is just then that a plain and simple basin of mutton broth is so agreeable. There are many invalids, too, who suffer from debility, which is very often ac- companied by sleeplessness. By means of a spirit-lamp and a tin of mutton broth a little meal can be prepared and taken in the middle of the night, and very often it will be found that by10G CBOSSE AND BLACKWELL'H thus taking a little simple nourishment the long-wished-for sleep will at last come. ARBONNE HONEY. — See Honey. NATAL ARROWROOT.—See Arrowroot. NEPAUL CAYENNE PEPPER.—See Cayenne Pepper. NOYEAU. PINK AND WHITE.— No- yeau is a very popular liqueur, which owes its flavour to an essence obtained from peach-stones. This flavour is very similar to, though more delicate than, that obtained from bitter almonds, and is very useful in cooking. Noyeau is sometimes used to be poured round sweet omelets after the noyeau has been ignited. It makes a very admirable liqueur to be handed round after dinner, as the mingled bitter and sweet act as an admirable clearance to the palate. It is, of course, a liqueur that should be taken with caution and moderation. A large quantity of noyeau, especially if mixed with any spirit, such as brandy, has a decidedly deadening effect on the nerves. Noyeau is often used in making jelly, and in this respect it ranks almost with maraschino jelly. In making noyeau jelly the noyeau should not be put in till the jelly is nearly cold and on the point of setting. For making jelly, pink noyeau is preferable to the white; but both pink and white differ very little in flavour, the only difference being that a little colouring matter has been added in the one case and not in the other. Noyeau can be used for a variety of purposes where bitter almonds or essence of almonds are used, and of course imparts a more delicate flavour. Practically, however, in cooking, essence of almonds for all purposes, such as custards, cakes, ratafias, and maca- roons, would be quite equal to noyeau. There is not one in a thousand who would detect the difference. Noyeau is often used to add to claret cup at the last moment. Next to maraschino, pro- bably noyeau is the best addition to claret cup. In either case, a small glass of good old liqueur brandy should be added as well. NOYEAU JELLY.—Noyeau jelly can now be obtained in bottles varying from a quart to half a pint. This jelly is very delicate in flavour, and is admir- ably adapted at times for invalids. It is very useful to have a bottle or two in the house in case of sickness, where in- valids are apt to be fanciful, and require every now and then a little additional zest given to the appetite. Noyeau jelly, as supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, is exceedingly delicate in flavour, and very pure, and is conse- quently recommended by medical men for the use of invalids. Noyeau jelly is very suitable to be served in small moulds. A very nice dish can be made by having a quantity of little moulds of jelly, each containing only suffi- cient for one person. These moulds should be flavoured with different liqueurs, and coloured diff erently so as to distinguish them when turned out. Some capital moulds can now be ob- tained for the purpose at any first-class ironmonger’s. A small dish, composed of various jellies, such as maraschino jelly, noyeau jelly, vanilla jelly, lemon jelly, chartreuse jelly, etc., forms a very pleasing novelty for a dinner-party. The little copper moulds should be em- bedded in chopped ice and salt before being filled, and when taken from the ice should be held over a little steam for a few seconds. Owing to the copper mould being some thirty degrees below freezing-point, the steam will distantly condense on the surface of the mould and form a very minute film of ice. The jelly should not be put in till it is nearly cold and on the point of setting. Of course the intense cold, and the very small size of the moulds, will cause the jelly to set almost directly. It should then be turned out and served. It is always best not to turn out the jelly till the very last moment. Good jelly should be of such consistency that it melts in the mouth. Really first-class jelly should set in the ice, but yet should almost fall to pieces of its own accord after having been kept in a hot room for any length of time. The great charm of this jelly is its delicious coolness. This is not to be obtained unless the cook retains the jelly in the mould till a few minutes before it is served. NOYEAU, FRUITS IN.—See Fruits in Noyeau.'HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 107 NUTMEGS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of nutmegs is a quick and easy method of imparting the flavour of nutmegs to various kinds of puddings, custards, etc. Where the flavour of nutmeg is wanted, and the presence of nutmeg itself is an attraction—as in the case of nutmegs grated over the top of custards, etc.—pure nutmeg itself is far the best. The drawback, however, to nutmeg is that it is very insoluble. When the flavour of nutmeg is added to any dish its presence will show itself in the form of very thin, fine chips or powder. The flavour of nutmeg can be imparted to anything by means of essence of nut- megs, and no sign, of course, of the nut- meg will appear. Like all other essences* however, it must be used with extreme caution. A few drops are amply suffi- cient to flavour half a pint of fluid. NUTMEGS, GROUND.—Most kitchens are provided with that well-known im- plement called a “ nutmeg -grater.” Cooks, however, will do well at times to have by them some nutmegs ready ground. They will know that in using nutmeg with a nutmeg-grater the pow- der is very apt to be coarse, and for many purposes this is an objection; but in the case of using nutmeg for sweets, such as mincemeat, etc., it is de- sirable to have the nutmegs ground as finely as possible. When nutmeg is wanted very fine it is far best to buy it ready ground. ILS, SALAD. — There is no doubt that there is a general prejudice in England against the use of oil in almost any form whatever. Some twenty or thirty years ago English people almost universally dressed their salads in the following fashion :—They had a little cream, to which was added some English mustard; then two or three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and sometimes a little anchovy sauce was put in, and pepper and salt; last of all came the oil. But the oil was added to the salad in a few drops, some- thing like a chemist making up a dose of laudanum. Happily, I think, in the present day, we have got more civilised. The much greater facility of communi- cation with the Continent has gradually taught us that oil, when it is fresh and pure, can be used with as natch facility as very first-class butter. Oil resembles butter in one respect. Really good oil, like really first-class fresh butter, is simply a means of conveying fat to the system, and both should be absolutely tasteless. I firmly believe that the oi-igin of the prejudice against oil is simply owing to the fact that many years ago oil was always bought in small quantities, and being kept for a long time in small bottles, it, of course, got rancid. So great was the ignorance of English people on the sub- ject that they believed in consequence that all oil was rancid. If a house- keeper were to buy a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, and keep it in the house for a couple of months, and then at- tempt to eat it spread upon bread, she would find the bread-and-butter in question was utterly uneatable. So, too, with oil. When perfectly pure and fresh, oil is an exceedingly cheap and wholesome form of nourishment, and in summer-time should be used in tolera- bly large quantities for the purpose of dressing salads. I will here give a sim- ple method of dressing salads which is adopted by all waiters on the Continent and by the majority of waiters in this country at all good restaurants. Take, say, two or three nice fresh cabbage lettuces, which should be washed and carefully dried and then thrown into the salad-bowl. If possible get three or four fresh tarragon leaves, chop them up finely, and sprinkle them over the salad. Then take a brimming saltspoonful of salt and half a one of black pepper ; place them in the bowl of a tablespoon; fill the spoon with oil, and mix them in the oil with a fork, and pour it over the lettuce. Now add two or three more tablespoonfuls of oil, tossing the lettuce about lightly with a spoon and fork, that the whole of the outside of the lettuce leaves may be oiled over. The reason for putting in the oil before the vinegar is this—the oil will not soak into the vegetable, but the vinegar will; and when you add vinegar before oil to any salad it is very apt to soak into the leaves, the conse- quence being that after the salad is mixed some of the leaves are very acid, while some will have, comparatively speaking, no vinegar at all. Now take a tablespoonful of ordinary vinegar,CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 108 and add it to the salad. Mix the lettuce I well together, and the salad can be served. Some persons prefer a slight flavour of onion or garlic. For my own part I think garlic very superior to onion, but the garlic should be added with caution. Care should be taken that no solid pieces of the garlic itself get into the salad. The proper method of flavouring salad with garlic is to take a bead of garlic and to rub the salad- bowl with it before putting in the lettuce. This will be quite sufficient to impart a good strong flavour. Should rather more be required, take a small knob of crusty bread and rub upon it a bead of garlic, or two beads. The bread will absorb some of the garlic, and by simply tossing the bread about amongst the salad a very strong flavour of garlic will be impaired. Another great improvement to salad is to serve with it a few hard-boiled eggs. When hard-boiled eggs are served with salad they should not be cut up into quarters till just before the salad is wanted, as if they are cut up too early, and stand for two or three hours, the yolks will turn a sort of dirty brown colour, and look stale and withered. I would warn housekeepers when using hard-boiled eggs against fancying the eggs are not quite fresh when they cut them open. Perfectly fresh eggs when boiled hard and cut open will often emit a slight smell, the smell being simply the sul- phuretted hydrogen gas which is con- tained in all eggs. A very minute quantity will make its appearance felt immediately, but I have known cases in which many eggs have been thrown away which were to all intents and purposes perfectly wholesome and fresh. One of the most delicious salads known —namely, mayonnaise salad—is made from oil, but the beauty of the mayon- naise entirely depends on the purity of the oil itself. Mayonnaise sauce made from oil which through ignorance has been kept too long, of course would be as objectionable as melted butter made from rancid butter. Good mayonnaise sauce can only be obtained when the oil itself is perfectly fresh and pure, and the yolks of eggs used are obtained from perfectly fresh eggs. Most cooks experience considerable difficulty in making mayonnaise sauce, and a very great deal of this difficulty is owing to the misdirections given in several works on cookery on the subject, which re- commend adding pepper and salt and vinegar before the sauce is formed. When this is done the result is not so much mayonnaise sauce as salad dressing, which can be poured from a bottle, but which cannot be used to mask over the surface. I will give directions how to make a small quan- tity. To make mayonnaise sauce pro- ceed as follows :—First take a good fresh egg, break it and separate the yolk carefully from the white, and throw the yolk into a basin of tolerable size. The yolk can now be broken and the two little threads in the yolk removed. Next take some good pure olive oil of proper temperature. The oil should be cold, but not so cold as to be cloudy. Cooks will do well to remember that oil will freeze at a much higher temper- ature than water, and that in cold weather a bottle of oil will be cloudy and look like a mass of ice long before any ice has made its appearance even out of doors at night time. When the oil is in this condition it should be placed for a short time in a little tepid water, allowing it to remain till it is perfectly bright. When in this state, however, it will be perhaps too warm ; if so, place the bottle in cold water and take it out every now and then and look at it. The instant the slightest symp- toms appear of the oil turning cloudy it will be fit for use. Take tne basin in the left hand and take the fork in the right?. (I would here mention that in making mayonnaise sauce a wooden fork is far better than a silver one.) Now pour the oil drop by drop on the yolk of egg, beating it lightly with the fork. Gradually you will find that these two fluids commence to form a semi-solid substance, which is the mayonnaise sauce. Although the oil is perfectly fluid, yet, strange to say, the more oil you add the thicker the sauce becomes. When the sauce has become tolerably thick you can add half a tea- spoonful or even more of oil at a time. One yolk of egg will absorb very nearly half a pint of oil, and will make nearly (not quite) half a pint of sauce, and the sauce itself will be of the consistency of good butter in summer-time. Now add a little white pepper, salt, and a small quantity of vinegar. French vinegar is best for the purpose. In summer-time, do not add too much vinegar, becauseHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 10!) if you require the sauce to mask over a surface, of course, by adding a consider- able quantity of vinegar, it will be made more liquid. Mayonnaise sauce can be flavoured in various ways, and when used for fish salads very often tarragon vinegar will be found preferable to ordi- nary vinegar. It can also be flavoured with chili vinegar, according to taste. There is one great purpose, however, to which oil might be applied in this country, but for which, alas ! it is rarely used in private houses. I refer to the practice of using oil for frying. This is greatly owing to the fact that cookery in this country has been handed down by tradition from mother to daughter, and the most well known of these tradi- tions is that abominable practice of keeping a cook’s grease-box. Frying, properly so called, is boiling any sub- stance in fat, but the frying that we generally meet with in ordinary houses is cooking things in a frying-pan which has been smeared over with a little fat barely sufficient to do more than prevent the meat or fish from sticking. No good frying can possibly take place unless the whole of the substance fried is totally immersed in the boiling fat. Sir Henry Thompson has lately pub- lished a book, entitled “Food and Feeding,” being a series of articles which originally appeared in “ The Nineteenth Century.” The high position occupied by the author, as well as the remarks themselves, render them well worthy of careful consideration. In this book Sir Henry Thompson proceeds thus: “ The art of frying is little under- stood, and the omelet is almost en- tirely neglected by our countrymen. The products of our frying-pan are often greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, the shallow form of the pan being unsuited for the process of boiling in oil, that is, at a heat of nearly five hundred degrees, that of boiling water being two hundred and twelve degrees. This high temperature pro- duces results which are equivalent in- deed to quick roasting, when the article to be cooked is immersed in the boiling fat. Frying, as generally conducted, is rather a combination of broiling, toast- ing, and scorching ; and the use of the deep pan of boiling oil or dripping, which is essential to the right perform- ance of the process, especially pre- venting greasiness, is a rare exception, and not the rule, in ordinary kitchens1 The principle on which success depends is, that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling oil a thin film of every part of the surface of the fish, or rather object to be fried, is coagulated, so that the juices with their flavour, etc., are at once locked up within and no quality can escape. The bath of oil should therefore be inquantitysuffieient, and also be hot enough to effect this result in an instant, after which, and during the few minutes requisite to cook the interior, the heat is often slightly lowered with advantage. The fish emerges when done with a surface to which a little oil adheres, but this will drain off owing to its extreme fluidity when hot if left a minute or two before the fire ; it may thus be served absolutely free from grease. The film of egg, often applied to the surface of an object to be fried, is in the same manner instantly coagulated and forms an im- permeable case; while the fine bread- crumbs adhering to it take a fine yellow colour from being slightly charred by the high temperature they are exposed to. Excellent and perfectly fresh olive oil, which need not be so perfect in tint and flavour as the choicest kinds re- served for the salad-bowl, is the best available form of fat for frying, and is sold at a moderate price by the gallon at the best Italian warehouses.” I give this quotation from Sir Henry Thomp- son’s book in order to show his opinion of the advantages of oil as a means of frying all kinds of fish and meat. It is with great diffidence that I venture to differ from so high an authority, but my own experience is that a tempera- ture of 350 degrees Fahr. is ample for ordinary purposes of frying, such as cutlets, soles, rissoles—in fact, any kind of meat covered with egg and bread- crumbs. If the article fried, which has been covered with egg and bread- crumbs, has previously been allowed by the cook to get very dry, the bread- crumbs will brown very much more quickly than if they were plunged into the boiling oil when damp. The only exception to this that I know of is in the cooking of whitebait. It is essential in cooking whitebait that the oil or fat should be very hot indeed. The general degree of temperature must exceed what is required for frying other dishes. It is also essential that the whitebaitCMOS SB AND BLACKWELL'S lio should be taken out of the iced water in which they are kept and thrown into plenty of flour. The flour should be spread on a cloth, on which it should be at least an inch in depth, and the whitebait transferred quickly from the flour into the smoking hot fat, the whole process occupying only a few seconds. I have often watched the process of cooking whitebait some years back at North Woolwich. My friend Mr. Holland was justly celebrated for the excellence of his whitebait. His opinion, which is worthy of attention, was that the secret of good whitebait was this—the time occupied between its leaving the iced-water and plung- ing into the fat should be as few seconds as possible. The temperature of fat for frying whitebait, according to my experience, should not be greater than about 400 degrees. Sir Henry Thompson mentions for ordinary frying a heat of ijearly 500. In cooking whitebait the cook is pretty safe when the oil begins to smoke. I cannot help thinking that, if the oil or fat were heated to a temperature of 500, the result would be a most unpleasant shower of blacks. Oil wall not boil, and when Sir Henry Thompson speaks of boiling oil it is probably merely a figure of speech to describe the smoking period to which I have referred. OLIVES, VARIOUS.—Olives in this country can only be obtained preserved or pickled in brine. Those who have been fortunate enough to enjoy the fruit fresh know how deliciously juicy it is. There are two kinds of olives, French and Spanish. French olives are smaller, and are a dark green. Spanish olives are somewhat larger, and of a more yellowish-green colour. Which kind is the best is, of course, a matter of taste. For my own part, I prefer French olives to Spanish. Olives are very often served as a dish by themselves after dinner, but were very much more popu- lar in what are known as the good old days, when people sat over their wine for an hour or two after dinner, than in more modern days, when but little wine is drank. Olives also can be used as an appetiser, or for serving before^ dinner as a hors d’oeuvre. A very nice appetiser can be made from olives as follows -.—Take a little piece of fried bread the size of an ordinary draught" man. Take an olive and stone it. The proper way to stone an olive is as fol- lows :—Take a knife, not too sharp, and cut longways into the olive in a slightly slanting direction till the edge of the knife reaches the stone. Now out care- fully round the stone, taking care that the edge of the knife never leaves the stone. The stone will now come out perfectly bare, and the olive will then resume its shape, and, to all intents and purposes, have the appearance of an ordinary olive, though of course it is hollow in the middle. In making the appetiser this hollow should be filled up with a small piece of fillet of anchovy. Next take a little dab of mayonnaise sauce and place it in the centre of the fried bread. Stand the olive upright in this on its end, and then put another little dab of mayonnaise sauce on the top of the olive where the hole was. The whole can now be eaten together ; the combined flavour of anchovies, the olive, the mayonnaise sauce, and the crisp piece of fried bread is exceedingly agreeable. Stoned olives are also used in cooking for a variety of purposes. A few stoned olives are also added to any kind of salmi of game. Salmi of game, I may here remind you, is usually made from the remains of game that has been served roasted the previous day. The best part of the game is cut off, and the bones are broken and stewed down in a little rich brown gravy, so as to impregnate it with the flavour of the game, great care being taken that the delicious inside part of the back of the game, which contains the chief flavour, is all put into the gravy. When the bones have become thoroughly bare and dry take them out and rub the gravy through a wire sieve to get it smooth. Warm up the meat which was cut off in the gravy, to which may be added a small quantity of madeira or sherry just before serving, and half a dozen or more stoned olives. Stoned olives are often added to what may be called in- ferior kinds of small vol-aux-vcnts. In many restaurants in London vol-aux- vcnts d la Francaisc will appear on the bill of fare. Those who wish to know what this really is can turn to the head- ing, Financiekk Ragout, but they will often find in cheap London restaurants the dish served as follows :—A case of very light pastry, containing some small pieces of veal, liam, or chicken, a fewIll HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. mushrooms, and throe or four stoned olives, warmed up in a little so-called bechamel sauce, but which is really, I think, little more than stock thickened with butter and flour. This dish may be very palatable, but of course it is not vol-au-vent cl la Financi&re. Another form of olives is that known as olives farcies. These can now be obtained in bottles ready made. Olives farcies are really olives which have been stoned and the insides filled with small quanti- ties of filleted anchovy and chopped capers. These are preserved in brine, and are sold in bottles ready for use. These olives are sometimes used in cooking. M. Erancatelli, in his well- known book, entitled “ The Modem Cook,” gives a receipt for scallops of mutton with olives farcies. He recom- mends the scallops to be prepared in the ordinary manner, and when they have been fried and the grease poured off, two dozen olives farcies should be added, as well as two large gravyspoon- fuls of espagnole sauce, a little cayenne, lemon juice, and a small piece of glaze. These should be tossed all together and allowed to simmer gently on the stove for two or three minutes, and then should be served. ONIONS, BURNT.—Burnt onions are very valuable for imparting both flavour and colour to soups and gravies. They are, however, better suited for thick soups than for thin. Cooks would do well to bear in mind the importance of noticing the difference between impart- ing flavour from uncooked and cooked material. Under the heading of Roux, Brown, I have entered more fully into this subject. I would not recommend burnt onion to be used in the case of making real turtle soup or mock turtle soup from calves’ head, but I would strongly recommend it in the case of making soup from ox feet or pig’s head. When the material from which the soup is made is somewhat coarse, it of course requires richer flavouring. Burnt onion is especially adapted for flavouring soups made from ox feet. I would re- commend housekeepers who have not hitherto tried soup made from ox feet to make the experiment. Ox-feet soup is best suited for winter. It is a ques- tion of patience. The foot should be first scalded, but not boiled. On the Continent, especially in Belgium, ox feet J are sold in the shops ready cooked, but the whole of the goodness has already been extracted from them, and this foodness is sold in the shape of glaze. n England ox feet can be obtained from butchers, and as a rule the butcher will scald it. This is all that is necessary. The foot should now be placed in say a gallon or half a gallon of water, with a head of celery or celery trimmings, carrot, onions, etc., and be left to stew for a long time. At the end of the first day the soup should be strained off into an open pan, and in the morning the fat should be removed. The foot and soup should be put on the second day, and some burnt onions added. These burnt onions impart a very deli- cious flavour, in addition to which they also improve the colour. Of course if the cook has in the house a ham bone, veal bones, beef bones, etc., these bones may be added with advantage. The foot should be allowed to stew till the meat literally drops from the bone. The bones should then be taken out, and the meat, if it has been stewed pro- perly, will be quite as tender as calves’ head. The coyk should endeavour to cut up the meat as far as possible in two-inch slices, so as to resemble the meat in mock turtle soup. The soup can now be thickened with a little j brown roux (see Roux, Brown). Pep- | per and salt should be added to taste, and I would strongly recommend soluble cayenne pepper. Before serving I would suggest the addition of a claret- lass of sherry, or, better still, madeira. f sherry be added, golden or brown sherry is far better than the pale sherry known as amontillado. This soup is not only very cheap but very economical, and it contains a very great amount of nourishment. It will be a hard jelly when cold, and is admirably adapted for families where there are children— indeed when well made this soup is nearly or quite equal to mock turtle soup made from calves’ head. Half a calf’s head will probably cost three shillings, while an ox foot can be obtained for one. The burnt onion imparts a peculiar richness to the soup, but, as I have said, it is better adapted to soups that have stewed for a long time. I have already given a receipt for making mock turtle soup from pig’s head, and for flavouring this burnt onion is also specially adapted.112 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL’S ONIONS, PICKLED.—Pickled onions I are always a favourite pickle, of course ' the drawback being that they affect the breath. They can be served with every kind of cold meat, such as beef I and mutton, but are very unsuited ! to be served with poultry. A very nice sauce can be made from pickled onions, to be served with mutton cut- lets for breakfast. Take sufficient onions out of the bottle to make, when chopped, a couple of tablespoonfuls. Next take about a quarter of a pint of good stock and put it in a small stew- pan. Add to this a small teaspoonful of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat. This will turn the stock a deep rich brown colour. Now add the pickled onions and let them simmer. The acidity from the onions will impart a piquant flavour to the sauce. Take about a teaspoonful of arrowroot and mix it with a little of the sauce. Add the arrowroot till the sauce thickens and becomes as thick nearly as gruel. The cutlets can be grilled on a gridiron, and drained for a few seconds on a cloth, then placed on a dish, and the sauce poured in the middle of them. This is a very delicious breakfast dish and very appetising. It can of course be served at luncheon, but is not alto- gether adapted for dinner. Cayenne pepper can be added to this dish accord- ing to taste. Sometimes in the morning under certain circumstances the flavour of cayenne is very acceptable. When this is the case there are few mediums for conveying cayenne pepper to a iaded appetite better than the sauce I nave mentioned. I allude to circum- stances where after a public dinner gentlemen are apt to feel that they have taken “ too much salmon.” OPENERS.—See Knives. ORANGE BITTERS.-Orange bitters is the most popular of all bitters, its greatest rival being augostura bitters. Orange bitters is very rarely taken by itself. It is almost universally used in conjunction with some other liquid, such as brandy, sherry, gin, etc. I think the proper proportion- of orange bitters is about one quarter of bitters to three quarters of wine or brandy. This, however, is a matter of taste. I do not recollect any instance in which orange bitters is used for cooking pur- poses. On a hot day, when persons are very thirsty, a small glass of orange bitters in a bottle of iced soda-water is a very agreeable drink to be taken be- fore dinner. How far bitters in any form are advisable is a subject I will not on this occasion enter into. Of course there are some persons whose appetites would be completely destroyed by taking gin and bitters before dinner, while on the other hand there are many whose appetites would be improved by so doing. ORANGE CHIPS.—Orange chips are strips of orange peel candied. They are very nice and make an excellent garnish to be placed round a dish of biscuits or a cake. ORANGE CURACOA.—See CuitAcOA. » ‘ ORANGE, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of orange, like essence of lemon, must be used with caution. A few drops will as a rule be amply sufficient to impart the flavour of orange to a pint of fluid. It has a very agreeable bitter taste, and can be used to flavour a glass of sherry or gin as a substitute for orange bitters. Essence of orange may also be used for flavouring claret-cup and a variety of dishes, but, as I have before stated, it must be used with caution. ORANGE FLOWER WATER.—Orange flower water is very valuable for what may be termed high-class cookery. There are few scents more delicious than orange flower, so suggestive as it is of the bridal wreath. That delicately flavoured syrup, capillaire syrup, owes its excellent bouquet to the addition of orange flower water. One of the most delicious sweets is made with the help of this orange flower water. I allude to omelette souffle, a dish for which the “Freemasons’ Tavern” is so greatly noted. This establishment has always maintained its reputation by engaging the services of one of the first cooks in Europe to superintend its kitchen. At the present time M. Burlet presides, a worthy successor to the late M. Francatelli, who, in his work enti- tled “The Modern Cook,” gives the following receipt for making omelette souffle. “ Put the yolks of six eggs into a large, basin, add six ounces of pow- dered sugar, a dessert-spoonful of potato flour, two of orange flower water or any113 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. other kind of essence or liqueur used for such purposes, and a very little salt. Stir these together with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes. Then whip six whites of eggs and mix them lightly with the batter. Next put two ounces of butter into an omelette pan and set it on a stove fire. As soon as the butter begins to sputter poiir the whole of the omelette batter into it and set the pan over the fire. As the batter becomes partially set round the side and bottom of the pan, toss it over and over gently, and then turn the omelette out- neatty, and as much as ppssible_ in the form of a dome, on to a silver dish pre- viously spread with butter. Put it in the oven and bake it for about twelve minutes, when it will be ready to send to table. Shake some "Sugar on the omelette and serve it immediately.” I would remind housekeepers of the im- portance of this word “immediately.” In making all kinds of souffles the great point is to lose as little time as possible between their being taken out of the oven and served in the dining-room. They will hardly realise unless they have had experience how an ome- lette will deteriorate if not served in- stantly. Very often an omelette souffle which is served in a tin, say four inches in depth, will rise to a height of two inches above the tin. If two minutes elapse between its leaving the oven and its appearance in the dining-room, the omelette will sink down to an inch below- the tin in this short space of time. Under the heading of “Parmesan Cheese” I will call attention to this subject again w-lien speaking of “ Cheese souffle.” ORANGE JELLY.—When cooks make orange jelly at home from fresh oranges, they w-ill experience very considerable difficulty in getting the jelly bright. They w-ill, however, probably find that they will impart more of the flavour of orange than is generally obtained in jelly ready bought. Bottled jelly is undoubtedly by far the most convenient form of having orange jelly. House- keepers should remember that this bought jelly can be flavoured in a va- riety of ways. They would do well to regard orange jelly in bottles as the base of various other kinds of jellies. Those persons who have been fortunate enough to enjoy a supper at the Free- masons’ Tavern will well remember how exquisitely beautiful are the moulds of jelly containing fruits, etc., which are there served. A mould of jelly contain- ing fruits is very easily made in any private house by means of a bottle of jelly. So far as my own experience oes, a bottle of jelly which is perfectly right is infinitely superior to anything that can be made at home, owing to the great difficulty of clearing the jelly made with fresh oranges. When jellies are home-made, owing to their being made in such small quantities the amount of waste is very considerable indeed. Of course bottled jellies, such as those supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Blacku-ell, are made in such large quan- tities that the clearing process is much easier. In making a mould of jelly in which fruits are placed, the housekeeper should proceed as follows. In summer a little rough ice is absolutely necessary. Place the mould in chopped ice and salt. Dissolve the jelly by placing the bottle in lukewarm water, but do not overheat it. As soon as the jelly is ready to be poured out of the bottle it is ready for use. I would here remind housekeepers that in putting a bottle of jelly into lukewarm water the jelly com- mences to melt round the outside first. By placing a small cloth dipped in boil- ing water round the neck of the bottle the jelly in the neck of the bottle w-ill melt. They can now use the jelly in its semi-liquid state—that is, there will be a solid lump of jelly in the middle of the bottle, but the outside they will be able to pour out. Pour the jelly into a mould, when, as it is only just dissolved, it will very readily set. Next take any fruit that may be at hand—say a dozen or more ripe red strawberries— place them in the jelly, and then pour a little more of the jelly on them just suffi- cient to cover them. Next, place in the jelly a row of ripe grapes, and then a layer of bunches of red and white cur- rants, putting in stalks and all, etc. The fruit, of course, is a mere question of taste, and depends upon the season of the year, the state of the garden, or the prox- imity to Covent Garden market. When the whole mould has been filled in this way it should be allow-ed to set for some time in the ice. The bottles of jelly supplied by Messrs. Crosse and Black- well are of course made for all seasons of the year, and the jelly is quite I114 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S firm in summer. Should ice be used the jelly will consequently bear the ad- dition of a considerable amount of fluid. Indeed, a quart bottle of this admirable jelly will bear the addition of very nearly half a pint of wine, and the ad- dition of wine of course very greatly improves the jelly. I would suggest. madeira wine as tlie best, or some good golden sherry ; but a bottle of madeira at three shillings per bottle is far supe- rior to any sherry at the same price. It is far best not to turn out the jelly till just before sending the dish to table. The great beauty in eating jelly is to have it cold. If the mould is properly adjusted when it is turned out of the ice the jelly will be firm, but after it lias been kept in a hot room for half an hour it will almost begin to fall to pieces of its own accord. This shows that its consistency is perfect. Cooks too often sacrifice taste to appearances. They are so afraid that the jelly will break in turning out that they make it unneces- sarilystiff. Consequently, when the jelly is sent to table it presents a very beauti- ful appearance, but when it is eaten it has to be bitten. Perfectly-made jelly will melt the moment it enters the mouth, and unless it is in that state it is not worth eating. It would be al- most impossible to give a list of all the fruits that can bo placed in jelly, but I particularly mention bright ripe cherries and slices of pineapple, especially slices of pineapple that nave been preserved in tins. Jelly may be sent to table either on a glass or silver dish. When served on a silver dish the base should be ornamented with slices of cut lemon, and in the case of orange jelly it may be ornamented with slices of cut orange. The oranges should be cut as follows. The slices should be cut crosswise to the core. Then the slices should be cut in half, and each half cut through the peel, and the two quarters separated, so tnat they assume the shape of an hour-glass. ORAN GE MARMALADE. —Orange mar- malade is probably the most common and useful of all preserves. Indeed, the words of the well-known sentence, “ an excel- lent substitute for butter at breakfast,” are literally household words through- out the United Kingdom. There is no doubt that orange marmalade is a very cheap and very wholesome prepara- tion. Marmalade is almost universal at every breakfast-table, and can be eaten with plain bread-and-butter, or, better still, with plain dry toast. It is, however, useful for a variety of cooking purposes. Orange marmalade is undoubtedly the finest and best adapted sweet for all persons who have a tendency to biliousness or indigestion. One of the most common causes of indi- gestion is partaking of grease or fat. Orange marmalade is admirably adapted for the purpose of making sweet omelets. A couple of tablespoonfuls should be warmed for a short time, and then placed inside the omelet and served. I have before, under the heading of “Apricot Jam”—(see Apricot Jam)— explained the necessity of warming the jam before if is placed in the omelet. Of course the same directions apply equally to using marmalade of any de- scription when it is served with omelets. Marmalade is very often used as a cheap and wholesome preserve for open jam tarts. Its speciality, however, is that it is far less rich and bilious than the majority of jams, and when persons have to be careful in their living, marma- lade is an excellent substitute for almost every other kind of sweet. Indeed, there are many persons who are unable to take rich pastry, .and yet are fond of sweets, and are glad of any opportunity of legitimately gratifying their appetites without running any risks. To these persons I would strongly recommend as a sweet, orange marmalade served in a border of rice. The rice can be boiled in plain water, or milk can be used. Rice borders are very useful, both for making sweets and entrees. A full de- scription of how to make rice borders will be found under the heading of “Damsons, Bottled.” (See Damsons, Bottled.) One of these rice borders filled with orange marmalade will make a most pure and wholesome sweet, of which no invalid need be afraid to par- take. Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell have for many years been justly cele- brated for the purity of their marma- lade, which is made entirely from Seville oranges and refined sugar. Orange marmalade is very .suitable to be served with almost any kind of pudding, especially puddings made of cornflour or arrowroot. A very nice dish can be made of orange marmalade as followsMake an ordinary baked115 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. custard pudding, semolina pudding, or vermicelli pudding. Let the pudding get cold, and then turn it out of the aish in which it was baked. I am sup- posing the pudding has been baked in an ordinary pie-dish. Now surround the pudding with a border of orange marmalade, and ornament the top as follows :—Take a little candied angelica, or, better still, slice up a preserved crystallised almond. These are of _ a very dark green colour, and are admir- ably adapted for all purposes of orna- menting. Cut this into small strips, so that the strips will form a star. Of course the strips which are pointing lengthways on the pudding should lie somewhat longer than those which point crossways on the top of the pud- ding, which is oval. Place in the middle of this little star a preserved cherry, and place round the top of the pudding some preserved cherries and little stars of angelica. This pudding now is really very handsome, the orna- mental stars on the top and the bright marmalade round the base tending . greatly to set it off. The marmalade with the pudding itself is also a great improvement. Marmalade can also be used formiaking bread-and-butter pud- ding, and when children are delicate, It is an admirable dish for them. I would recommend the bread-and-butter pud- ding to be made as follows :—Cut some thin slices of bread. (Remember this is an admirable opportunity for using up pieces of stale bread.) Spread the bread very slightly with butter, and then put on a layer of marmalade on each slice. Pile up the slices on the top of one another in the pie-dish, and then fill up the dish with custard. Let it stand long enough for the bread to soak up the custard. The pudding should now be baked in the oven suffi- ciently long for the custard to set. This pudding is light, digestible, and ex- tremely nice, without being rich. In- deed, if the pudding is required for persons who are bound to abstain from everything that is rich the butter can be omitted altogether, and the marmalade simply spread on slices of dry bread. Of course a still superior pudding can be made by using up slices of stale sponge-cake, or, better still, what is known as brioche cake, instead of ordi- nary bread. ORANGE SYRUP. — Orange syrup makes a-very delicious drink ki hot weather. The nicest form of having it is by mixing a small quantity with a bottle of iced soda-water. It can, of course, be drank with plain water, to which a lump of ice will be a great im- provement. Orange syrup can also be used for several purposes in cooking. One of the nicest is to serve it. as an accompaniment to boiled rice. I think it will be found that orange syrup, when served with cold boiled rice, is far nicer than when served hot. Housekeepers would do well to bear in mind that boiled rice can always be served up cold. Very often, after a course of mulligatawny soup or curry, there is a small quantity of boiled rice left. This will make an admirable little additional dish, especially where there are children, and it can be served up with their tea. A little orange syrup added to the cold rice renders the rice a most delicious dish. OREGON SALMON.—See Salmon. ORIENTAL PICKLES (CAPTAIN WHITE’S).—Pickles may generally be divided into two classes—the hot and the acid. Were the question asked of me what pickles I think the best, I should unhesitatingly reply “ Captain White’s Oriental Pickles.” Tastes, however, differ, and probably there are many who would say they preferred piccalilli. Very often people have a positive objection to what may be termed the “ Indian ” flavour produced by the chilies, spices, etc., wrnch are mixed with Oriental pickles. These Oriental pickles are admirably adapted to be eaten with any kind of cold meat, and, owing to the spices, etc., which they contain, they undoubtedly act as a slight stimulant to the digestion. Many persons who have lived in India are noted for suffering from derangement of the liver. Probably the hot oondiments, such as Indian sauce, Indian pickle, Indian curry, Indian chutney, etc., tend greatly to assist in stimulating those organs which have been deranged by excessive heat or other causes. Cap- tain White’s Oriental pickje is by far the best I know for serving up hot with all kinds of dishes, such as cutlets, grilled salmon, etc., these dishes being peculiarly suited for breakfast. The best plan of serving up what may beCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 116 termed pickle sauce is to take a good tablespoonful of pickle, cuf up the larger pieces, but do not chop the whole finely, and mix with it about double the quantity of good rich brown gravy. The brown gravy should be very thick, in fact thicker than ordinary gravy, and a very little arrowroot and cold water may be added, in order to give it the right consistency. This should be heated over the fire in a small stcwpan, and served up in the middle of a dish of cutlets or fish. Another very nice sauce can be made from Oriental pickles as follows : Take equal quantities of pickle and any good Indian chutney, such as Bengal Club chutney, or Colonel Skin- ner’s chutney. Mix the sauce in about three times its quantity of stock, and add a teaspoonful of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat. This is of course a very nourishing sauce, owing to the presence of so much extract of meat, and is very appetising, owing to the combined flavour of pickle and chutney. Persons who are recom- mended nourishing food, when the ap- petite is found to flag, will find this sauce, served with a few nicely cooked mutton cutlets, an exceedingly agreeable dish. The cutlets, I need not say, should be well cooked—that is, black outside and red in. There are few tilings that test a really good cook’s ability so much as cooking a good cut- let. Captain White’s Oriental pickle is made from a very famous Indian receipt. I would strongly recommend any person who suffers from indigestion to make a trial of these pickles, which are exceed- ingly nice, not merely when eaten with cold meat, but with chops and steaks, in addition to imparting zest to hashes and stews of all kinds. OSBORNE SAUCE. — Osborne sauce, which is probably better known by the name of “ Payne’s Royal Osborne Sauce,” is an exceedingly nice sauce, manufactured by Mr. G. Payne, m.p.s., Her Majesty’s chemist on the establish- ment at Osborne. The sauce is bright in colour, and is of the same order of sauces as Reading, Harvey, etc. It is admirably adapted for all kinds of meat, fish, hashes, chops, steaks, cutlets, hot and cold meats, etc., and can be used to give an additional zest to gravies, curries, and salads. I would recom- mend those housekeepers whq, have a bottle of Royal Osborne sauce open in the house to make use of it on the first occasion on which they have a Welsh rabbit. Suppose you are making, say, a small Welsh rabbit enough for one person. Add a teaspoonful of this sauce, and stir it in with the cheese when it is in a melted state. It imparts a very agreeable relish. OUDE SAUCE.—The King of Oude’s sauce is, as its name implies, an Indian sauce, and consequently a hot one. It is prepared from a receipt that is the exclusive property of Samuel Hickson, and his name on the label of the bottle is essential to guarantee its genuineness. This sauce is well adapted for almost all purposes of ordinary use, and it can be eaten with chops, steaks, or fish. It has somewhat of a chutney flavour, and where Indian chutney itself cannot be obtained it is a very good addition to curry, especially where curry paste is not obtainable. OX-TONGUES, VARIOUS. —See Tongues. OX-CHEEK SOU?.—Ox-cheek soup is now supplied in tins. It is verj7 nourishing, and like all other tinned soup it is a very convenient form of having soup always in the house. It can be warmed up by simply immers- ing the tin in a saucepan of boiling water and keeping it there for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, when the tin can be opened and the contents turned out. It is exceed- ingly good as it is, but of course the flavour can be altered after the soup is warmed up. I think a little cayenne pepper is an improvement, especially for those who are fond of pepper. It can also be improved by the addition of little of Crosse and Blackwell’s ex- tract or beef, and thickened with a little brown roux {see Roux, Bkown), and when thickened a dessert-spoonful of sherry, or still better maderia, helps to give a superior tone. OX-TAIL SOUP.—Ox-tail soup is al- ways popular, and one or two tins of ox-tail soup will be found very conve- nient by housekeepers, as they will bear the addition of some more stock. When fresh ox-tail cannot be obtained a good ox-tail soup containing the meat of the tail can always be made with the assist- ance of these tins. Suppose we wantHOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. 117 enough ox-tail soup for six or eight per- sons. Open two tins of ox-tail soup and add an equal quantity of good stock. Now ada a brimming teaspoon- ful of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat, and a brimming table-spoonful of brown roux. Strain off the soup first of all from the meat. Then dissolve in the soup the extract of meat and brown roux, and let it boil. After it has boded let it simmer for a short time, skimming the surface in order to get rid of the butter or fat contained in the roux. Now replace the meat in the soup just before serving and add a wine- glassful of sherry. The presence of the bones in the tail and some of the meat is a guarantee that it is real ox-tail soup, and when soup is treated in this way there are very few who would not imagine that the Soup had been made from fresh ox-tad itself. In many parts of the country where ox-tads are diffi- cult to obtain, these tins of ox-tail soup make an excellent substitute. OYSTERS, TINNED.—Tinned oysters are a very valuable preserved food, and none the less so considering that really good natives now fetch three shillings and sixpence a dozen. Tinned oysters can be used for making both oyster soup and oyster pates. I think the most valuable part of tinned oysters is the liquor in which the oysters are pre- served. This contains an enormous amount of strong oyster flavour. The drawback to the oysters themselves is that they are as a rule hard, tough, and somewhat indigestible. Indeed occa- sionally we. may come across tinned oysters, which, when in the mouth, re- mind one of chewing a white kid glove. Consequently the cook should always as nearly as possible act as follows. Tinned oysters are extremely valuable to be used to give oyster flavour, but are not suited to be eaten by themselves, though in many establishments in Lon- don oyster pates and oyster soups are made from tinned oysters, the oysters themselves being served up whole. A tin of oysters will make an excellent dish of oyster pates with the assistance of another small tin of mushrooms. Pour the liquor off both into a small saucepan with the oysters themselves. If the liquor be excessive in quantity the cook can reduce it by letting it boil. Next add to this half a pint of boiling milk. Now take a wire sieve and with a wooden spoon rub the whole of the oysters through it. The oysters now exist really in the form of a pulp in the sauce. Next take sufficient butter and flour to make this mixture as thick as good gruel. .Add to it a little pepper and a brimming teaspoon- ful or rather more of anchovy sauce, recollecting first to make it boil. Next add a “ suspicion of nutmeg” and about half a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Now take the whole of the mushrooms and cut them up into small pieces about the size of the top of the little finger. Put these into the thick sauce and then fill the pate cases, taking care to make the mixture thoroughly hot first. The pate cases need now only to be put into the oven for the pastry to be made hot through, and the pates can then be served. When housekeepers call to mind how very expensive are fresh oysters, and how very cheap these small tins of mushrooms and oysters are, they will see at once how very nice and also economical a dish can be made. Should there be no pate cases the same mixture exactly can be used for' making imita- tion scalloped oysters. The mixture can be placed in small scallop shells and breadcrumbs shaken over the top ; the whole can then be baked in the oven. When the mixture is eaten in this way it would be as well to add little pieces of butter, which can be placed on the top of the breadcrumbs when put in the oven. Another im- provement is to put into the mixture before filling the pate cases one or two yolks of eggs. This of course imparts a richer colour, but care should be taken not to let the mixture boil after the eggs are added, or it will either set or curdle. In making oyster soup from fresh oysters cooks would do well to employ the assistanee of a tin of oysters, there- by saving a great deal of expense, as they will require far fewer oysters. Take say a dozen fresh oysters. As Blue Points can now be obtained at any rate at one shilling a dozen, if the soup is made from them it will not be so ex- pensive. I would remind housekeepers that these Blue Point oysters are quite as good for cooking purposes as natives themselves, though of course very in- ferior when eaten raw. Buy a dozen Blue Point oysters and save as much as possible of the liquor which they con-CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 118 tain. _ Next open a tin of oysters, pour the liquor from the tin into a small saucepan, and add to it the liquor from tlie fresh oysters. Then take the twelve Blue Points, throw them into the liquor, and put the saucepan on the fire. A fierce fire is the best. Watch them carefully, and the instant the liquor begins to boil take the saucepan off. The oysters are now what is known as “blanched.” Unless this is done they will be flabby when in the soup. It is of very great consequence indeed not to over-heat the oysters. When oysters are exposed to very great heat they become tough. This is the cause of tinned oysters being so indigestible. Now let the cook rub the whole of the tinned oysters with the liquor through a wire sieve. Add this liquor to a little stock and a pint of boiling milk. Of course if a little cream can be obtained it is a very great improvement. I have before called attention to the fact that an- chovy sauce possesses the property of bringing out the flavour of other mate- rials. I would strongly urge on the cook the importance of tasting the soup in its present state. We have now got the oyster liquor and the tinned oysters rubbed through a sieve, the stock, and the boiling milk or cream. Add a couple of spoonfuls of anchovy $auce. The" difference in the taste will then be something marvellous. This addition of the anchovy sauce seems to have the effect of multiplying the number of oysters used by ten. The soup should be thickened with a little butter and flour. In thicken- ing soup with butter and flour the cook should always melt the butter in the oven and mix the flour well in before it is added to the soup. When this is done the soup will never become lumpy. There is no occasion for the soup to be skimmed, as a little butter is an improvement rather than otherwise. Next place the blanched fresh oysters in a soup-tureen previously made hot, and pour the nearly-boiling soup on them and serve. Do not add the oysters to the soup in the saucepan, but add the soup to the oysters in the tureen, 'otherwise the oysters will be hard. OYSTERS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of oysters is a sauce now sold in bottles. It is a nice accompaniment to any kind of boiled fish as a substitute for oyster sauce. A little of this essence of oysters can always be added to oyster sauce and oyster soup, but when the essence is added the cook should avoid ubing any nutmeg, as the essence of oysters is strongly flavoured with nutmeg. OYSTER SOUP. — Oyster soup can now be obtained in tins. The tin can be heated by being immersed in boiling water and kept there for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. It can then be opened and the contents served. The addition of a very little cream and also a little anchovy sauce will often be found an improvement to tinned oyster soup, as well as a little cayenne pepper. This is of course a matter of taste. ARISIAN ESSENCE FOR SOUPS.—Parisian essence is a thick fluid sold in bottles, u^fed for the purpose of colour- ing soups and gravies. Per- haps most cooks have ex- perienced occasional difficulty in know- ing the best way to colour soups. The old-fashioned and perhaps universal custom was to use burnt sugar, or what French cooks call caramel. This sub- stance, however, has one drawback, for there is no doubt that thick caramel im- parts a somewhat burnt flavour to the soup, however carefully the caramel may be made. Good caramel is made by dissolving the sugar in a frying-pan, burning it till it becomes a deep red colour, and then adding sufficient water to mix the whole together until it be- comes a thick syrup, somewhat re- sembling treacle in appearance. The great proportion of saccharine matter will have been got rid of, but a certain amount of burnt flavour remains. I have no hesitation in saying that the Parisian essence sold by Messrs. Crosse _ and Blackwell is the very best of the kind I have ever seen. It imparts a brilliant colour without affecting the flavour. Where a dark colour is. required for thick soups or gravies this preparation is really invaluable. There are many ways of colouring soup when only a light straw colour is wished for, or in which the colouring is a matter of no moment. When, however, a greater quantity is to be used it is exceedingly important that the flavour of the soup or gravy should not be affected. As IHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 119 have before observed, cooks should never sacrifice taste to appearance. Tliis Parisian essence enables any cook to make a thick soup or gravy of the very richest possible colour without affecting its flavour. Of course in colour- ing: soups, especially clear soups, when a light colour only is wished for, by far the best method is to allow the soup to boil away over the fire until it becomes a glaze, and then to let the glaze colour itself over the fire. This, however, is a very difficult operation indeed when tried in small quantities, and thei-e is always a risk of the soup getting burnt, and the flavour being thereby affected. By means of this Parisian essence, how- ever, all risk is avoided. The origin of its name, “ Parisian essence,” is owing to the fact that this es'sence is very largely used—indeed, almost universally used—in all the best restaurants in Paris. PARMESAN CHEESE.—Parmesan cheese is a hard, dry Italian cheese, and is very largely used for cooking purposes. Indeed, in almost every dish in which cheese is used, Parmesan cheese is recommended. When eaten by it- self, which is sometimes done, it is always first grated, and then handed round with butter or plain bread. One of the chief uses of Parmesan cheese is that it is served with al- most every kind of Italian soup. By Italian soup I mean all those soups which contain any kind of Italian paste, such as macaroni, vermicelli, Italian paste, etc. The general fault in using Parmesan cheese with soups is that persons are apt to take too much. A small quantity of grated cheese assists and improves the flavour of soup, but a large quantity will quite over- power the flavour. Grated Parmesan cheese is also used for a very large variety of dishes served under the general name of au gratin. Originally all dishes under this designation were finished off with a slight addition of Parmesan cheese. For instance, sole au gratin, tomatoes au gratin, mush- rooms au gratin, etc., had a small quan- tity of Parmesan cheese shaken over them after the breadcrumbs were added. I think, however, in the present day this custom has been somewhat discon- tinued. In adding grated Parmesan cheese to any rich dish like sole au gratin, etc., the cook should be careful not to add too much. The chief use of Parmesan cheese is in serving it with Italian paste, cooked with butter, to- matoes, etc. Under the heading of ‘ ‘ Sparghetti ” — (see Spargh etti ) — I have given a receipt in which Parmesan cheese plays an important part. So, too, in ordinary macaroni served in Italian fashion a considerable quantity of Parmesan cheese should be added. (See Macaroni.) Parmesan cheese can also be handed round with rice when- ever rice is served as a dish by itself, or in conjunction with onions, tomatoes, etc. Indeed, I think in Italy Parmesan cheese seems to be handed round with almost everything. There is one very nice dish which I must not omit in speaking of Parmesan cheese—namely, cheese souffle. I may here add that Parmesan cheese is superior to every other kind of grated cheese, yet the remains of ordinary English cheese can be used for the same purpose, if only grated when it is perfectly dry. Take about two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, break two eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, and beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add a little pepper and salt. Then beat up the yolks separately with a quarter of a pint of milk, and mix the whole carefully together. Next have a small round well-buttered tin about four inches in depth, and make this very hot in the oven. Now pour in the mixture, place it in the oven, and bake it for about twenty minutes. The souffle will rise to four, five, or six times its original height. It should be served very quickly. It is customary for the cook to surround the tin with a folded napkin or a piece of ornamental paper. It is so necessary that the souffle should be served quickly that the cook should so manage that the souffle can be dropped into the folded napkin or paper instantly. As few seconds should elapse between the oven and the dining-room as possible. Parmesan cheese is sold by the pound, and is easily grated, but a very con- venient way of having a small quantity always ready in the house is by buying it ready grated in bottles. PARTRIDGE PATE, TRUFFLED.— These game pates, flavoured with truffle, make an exceedingly rich and delicious dish, suitable either for break-120 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S fast or luncheon. Most housekeepers know the inconvenience of introducing novelties into the ordinary run of Eng- lish breakfasts. One or two tins of pates—such as partridge, woodcock, etc.—in the house always enable house- keepers to give a little variety to the xneal. The tins containing these pates are generally secured by a patent fasten- ing which requires a peculiar kind of opener, somewhat similar to a clock- key. By its means a strip of tin is taken off round the edge of the patd, and the whole pate can then be turned out of the tin. When the patd is turned out of the tin whole it can be orna- mented very nicely as follows :—Place a small, deep row of double green parsley round the base of the dish itself; now pick a few small, bright parsley - leaves, sufficient to make a wreath round the edge of the patd on the top. A small piece of parsley should be stuck in the centre of the pate. A little cut lemon can also be used for orna- menting the dish. When lemon is used for this purpose it should be cut cross- ways, the slice cut into half. Each half should then be divided in the centre, but the two pieces should not be pulled apart, but be held together by the little white core in the centre. The shape of the pieces of lemon should resemble that of an hour-glass. These game patds are so exceedingly rich and good that housekeepers should be careful that not a single portion is really lost; and they should bear in mind that the remains of these patds are extremely useful to assist the cook in making various kinds of forcemeat suitable for rissoles, kromeskies, Italian fritters, etc. For making rissoles and kromes- kies receipts will be found under the heading of “ Chicken and Ham Patds” (see Chicken and Ham Pates), and a receipt for making Italian fritters will be found under the heading of “Foie Gras” (see Foie Gkas). When pates are made from chicken and ham, tongue, turkey, etc., they are best suited for making rissoles and kromeskies. When, however, the patds are made from game, such as partridge, woodcock, snipe, quails, larks, plovers, etc., I think that, with the addition of a little liver force- meat (see Cloves, Gkound), they are more suited for making that extremely nice and also very cheap dish known as Italian fritters. A little of this rich forcemeat can be made as follows':— Take some paper cases, which are sold at the pastrycook’s for the purpose. Add a little finely-chopped ham to the forcemeat, and half fill the cases with it. Next take a lark and open it, and fill the lark with some of the forcemeat. Make the lark and forcemeat hot in the oven, and then serve in the paper cases, the lark being placed on the top. When the flavour of garlic is not ob- jected to, two or three beads of garlic should be chopped up and mixed with the forcemeat. This gives it, of course, a very foreign taste. PASTE, ITALIAN. See Italian Paste. PASTILLES BE LEGUMES.—These are small round black-looking balls some- what resembling children’s sweetmeats. •They are composed of various kinds of burnt vegetables, and are used for colouring soups and gravies. When only a light colour is required for soups, one of these pastilles will be found very useful. They will keep for any length of time without getting bad, and are especially convenient for country houses. I would, however, warn cooks against putting in too many, as, unlike the Pari- sian essence in bottles, they undoubtedly impart flavour to the soup if used in any excessive quantity. PATf DE FOIE GRAS.—See Foie Gkas. PATE DE FOIE DE CANARD.—These patds very much resemble pate de foie f/ras itself, the chief difference between them being, as the name implies, that they are made from the livers of ducks instead of geese. When opened, the pate will be found to contain a piece of liver of slightly darker colour than ordinary pate dc foie pras. It is an exceedingly rich and delicious dish for breakfast or luncheon, and is also an excellent medium for conveying a large quantity of bread. The remains of these pates can be used, like pates dc foie f/rits, to assist the cook in making forcemeat of any description. These forcemeats are used for making rissoles, kromeskies, Italian fritters, etc. A receipt for making rissoles and kromeskies will be found under the heading “ Chicken-and- Ham Pates,” and for making Italian121 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. fritters under the heading “Foie Gras,” (see Foie Gras). PATE DE FOIE D’OIE TRUFFLED.— These pates are the same, under another name, as jxttes dc foie gras, and can be used like pate de foie gras in every re- spect (see Pate de Foie Gras). PAYNE’S OSBORNE SAUCE. — See Osborne Sauce. PEACH MARMALADE.—This is a most excellent, rich, and delicious pre- serve, made from peaches. It is very nice served simply plain as a breakfast dish like ordinary marmalade. It is admirably adapted for making small open jam tarts or rather tartlets. It will also make an extremely good roly- poly pudding, and as the marmalade is’ of a very good thick consistency, the cook will have no difficulty in get- ting a considerable quantity of marma- lade into the roly-poly pudding. Peach marmalade in conjunction with peaches preserved, forms the basis of a variety of very high-class dishes. M. Franca- telli, who was for many years chef at the Freemasons’ Tavern, in his book, “The Modem Cook,” gives several re- ceipts for using it. I will mention one he calls “ Croutes aux Peches” : “ With the remains of some brioche or savarin cakes cut some oblong shapes about three inches in length, and about an inch wide; sugar them over and glaze with a heated salamader. Then spread each one with some peach marmalade, having first made a ring on them with some of the jam. Previous to dishing up these fingers one resting on another in the form of a high wreath, place on the top of them some halves of peaches in syrup made of crystallised fruit, and having filled the hollow centre of the entremet with whipped cream, stick a feather of green angelica on the summit, decorate the base of the peaches with preserved cherry, raspberry, strawberry, or currant jelly, pour some maraschino over the crust and round the base and serve.” This is evidently a very deli- cious sweet, but perhaps not altogether adapted for families with limited incomes. PEACHES, CRYSTALLISED.—Crystal- lised peaches are always a favourite form of preserved fruits, and are an essential part of any dish composed of mixed crystallised fruits, which dish should always be arranged with an eye to colour. The best contrasts will be the dark greengages or crystallised almonds. In arranging these fruits on the dish pile them up in pyramid form, and use preserved cherries to fill up the chinks. PEACHES IN JUICE.—Peaches are now sold preserved in juice as well as in syrup in tins. Those preserved in juice are admirably adapted for making peach-tart. This is a very delicious tart, but housekeepers should bear in mind that there is a considerable difference between peaches in juice and in syrup. The former require the addition of a considerable amount of sugar. The juice should be boiled and sweetened, the peaches should be piled up as high as possible in the centre of the dish, and then the sweet juice should be poured over them, and the whole covered with light puff-paste and baked in the oven. The kernels of the peach-stones, if there are any, should always be added to the pie. This pie is much nicer served cold than hot. Devonshire cream is an ex- cellent addition, or ordinary cream can be served with it, or plain custard. PEACHES IN SYRUP.—Peaches are now to be obtained in syrup. There is no doubt that those preserved in syrup are. far superior to those preserved in plain juice. Preserved peaches form an excellent dish, suitable either as a sweet or for dessert. Open the tin and pile the peaches up in the centre of a dish. Pour the syrup over them, and orna- ment the dish by sticking in the crevices between the peaches a few preserved cherries. The appearance of the dish can be still further improved by cutting up some angelica in strips and sticking them into the peaches themselves. This dish can be improved if there is time by boiling the syrup itself and adding a little gelatine, sufficient to make it very nearly a jelly when cold. This can be coloured pink with a little cochineal, and the pink syrup can be poured over the dish, which will, of course, give it a far better appearance. A still greater improvement is, first, to clarify the syrup by means of the white of an egg. A very nice sweet can be made from peaches by making the peaches into what is known as a compote, and serv- ing them in the centre of a border of rice. In fact, they can be treated in122 ' CROSSE AND BLA CKWELL'S exactly the same manner as apricots. (See Apricots. ) A famous dish is made from peaches as follows :—About half a dozen large poaches are cut into quarters and placed in a saucepan with about half a pound of peach marmalade, and placed over a stove fire till they are warmed through. Then this prepara- tion is used for filling a lined charlotte mould, brioche being used for the pur- pose instead of bread. When this charlotte is sent to table some currant jelly diluted with a glass of noyeau should be poui'ed round the base. When peaches are served up in a rice border housekeepers will find that the flavour of vanilla will go very well with the rice. The rice is best flavoured with vanilla by placing a stick of vanilla in the milk in which the rice is afterwards boiled. When the pyramid of peaches is piled up in the rice border it will be found a very great improvement to pour over the whole a little melted strawberry jelly. Some strips of angelica can be used for ornamenting the top, while round the base of the dish and outside the rice should be placed a border of preserved greengages. Sometimes this dish is finished by pour- ing some vanilla liqueur round the base with the greengages. PEAS, GREEN, TINNED.—A very large quantity of peas are now sold in this country tinned, and when preserved young it is really very difficult to dis- tinguish between peas that have been tinned and those that are fresh gathered. If the peas are young and you can gather them fresh from your own gar- den there is no doubt that fresh peas have an infinitely superior flavour to any others. Unfortunately, however, the majority of people in this country are not dependent so much upon their garden as upon the greengrocer or market. There is no doubt that pre served peas in tins are very superior to a large number of those that are sold as fresh peas, but which have been kept for a long time after being gathered. The English fashion of serving green peas is, of course, boiled plain. I would, how- ever, suggest that they should be wanned up in the tins themselves. The tin should be opened and the liquor strained out after the peas are heated through. To be so heated the tin should be kept in boiling water fcr at least a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. When the peas are turned out into the dish add a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of pepper, and a little sugar. Mix the whole lightly together. If a few fresh mint-leaves can be obtained boil them and serve them with the peas. When the peas are large they can be served in the French fashion, in which case they are generally handed round to be eaten by themselves. When this is done a spoonful of good white sauce can be added to the peas, or a piece of butter and a little chopped mbit may be added. Green peas are one of the most useful forms of preserved vegetables, as they always enable us to make a very nice dish at all times of the year. They can be served up in the centre of a dish of mutton cutlets, or can be added with a few carrots and turnips sliced to some soup. A spoonful of green peas always very much sets off the appearance of any spring or clear soup. Peas are consi- dered particularly adapted to be served with roast duck and roast lamb. PEPPER, GROUND. — Of all the various spices sold, plain black pepper is the most useful, and the one which would be most missed. It is used in making almost every kind of dish that is known in cookery, with the excep- tion, of course, of sweets. Many years ago it was customary for pepper to be ground at home, but this has long since gone out of fashion. Pepper ground in large quantities by machinery is much more uniform and much finer than any home-ground pepper. White pepper is somewhat more delicate in flavour and a trifle more expensive than black. White pepper is very useful to be kept in the house for the purpose of flavour- ing white soups and white sauces. * Cooks will often find in turning out white soups or white sauces that a large spoonful or two at the bottom con- tains a quantity of black specks or dregs, owing to their having used black pepper instead of white. PEPPER, CAYENNE.—See Cayenne. PERSIAN SHERBET.—See Sherbet. PETITS POIS.—See Pois. PHILIPPE AND CO.’S SARDINES.— See Sardines.HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 123 PICCALILLI.—Piccalilli is one of the most popular forms of pickle sold in this country. It consists of a variety of vegetables—including gherkins or cucumbers, cauliflower, onions, French beans, etc.—which are surrounded with a yellow pickle containing a consider- able quantity of mustard and vinegar. Though piccalilli is decidedly hot, yet it is not of that peculiar character of hot pickle known as “ Indian ” or “ Oriental Pickle.” It seems, however, to be a universal favourite. Indeed, a bottle of Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell’s sickle will probably be found in every lotel coffee-room throughout the king- dom ; and not only is this the case in this country, but it seems to be equaby popular abroad—on the continent of Europe, and in America. Its chief use, of course, is to be eaten plain with cold meat. Piccalilli is very useful for making pickle sauce hot—not only with mustard, but with fire—to be served with cutlets, grilled fish, etc. Take a brimming tablespoonful of pickle out of the jar, and cut up the larger pieces of pickle rather small. Next add an equal quantity of good rich, brown gravy, and make the whole hot over the fire. This can now be served in the centre of some mutton cutlets grilled, or some grilled salmon, and it forms a very appetising sauce for breakfast. Another very nice sauce may be made from picca- lilli by chopping a little of it up with a little of the liquor rather fine, and mixing it with about an equal quantity of mayonnaise sauce. The whole should be well stirred together. This sauce, which somewhat resembles Tartar sauce, can be served with fried eels—or, in- deed, any fish with which Tartar sauce w'ould be served. There is probably no pickle in the world so universally ad- mired _ as piccalilli. Bottles of this favourite pickle will be found hi almost every ship that crosses the sea. Its chief virtues are that it produces appe- tite arid assists in enabling those per- sons with but little appetite to eat cold meat. On long voyages especially there are often times when passengers are in that transition state between either eat- ing a good meal or rushing on deck. It is at such moments that there is a loathing of anything hot, and especially of anything that contains grease. All those who have had much experience of sea travelling will know that the best euro for sea sickness is a full stomach, and not an empty one. Indeed, Lord Byron’s old remedy of a beefsteak has never yet been beaten. There is per- haps nothing so tempting at such a time as a nice large piece of juicy roast beef, and sometimes a spoonful of this hot pickle will enable a start to be made ; and a start once made, all goes well. In most of the Oriental pickles there is a certain richness which does not always commend itself to the English palate. Piccalilli is essentially English in all its characteristics — English vegetables, English vinegar, English mustard, and all well harmonised with a piece of genuine English roast beef. Un- doubtedly it is a true saying that com- parisons are odious, and to compare piccalilly with any other kind of pickle —such as Oriental pickle—may seem invidious. Still, all things have their seasons. Now under the circumstances to which I allude—that is, when there is in the stomach a certain craving for food and yet a feeling of nausea—there is no doubt that piccalilli will be very far superior to any other sort of pickle in inducing persons to eat. Oriental pickles are extremely delicious, and bave their seasons, but most of them contain mangoes. Now it is well known that the flavour of mango is rich and delicious, though undoubtedly at times sickly; but there is, so to speak, a purity in the flavour of piccalilli which is almost matchless. When house- keepers are unable to have more than one bottle of pickle in the house at one time I would strongly urge them to fix their choice upon a bottle of Crosse and Blackwell’s piccalilli. PICKLES.—Pickles are sold in bottles containing half-pints, pints, and quarts, as well as by the gallon in jars. A de- scription of the following pickles, sup- plied by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, will be found under their respective headings :—Cauliflower, chow-chow, cu- cumber, mangoes, French beans,, gher- kins, mixed pickles, piccalilli, red cab- bage, walnuts, onions, Captain White’s Oriental pickle, imperial pickles, West Indian pickle, Indian mangoes, West Indian limes, Colonel Skinner’s mango relish, pickled lemons, pickled mush- rooms, prepared horse-radish, pickled long red chilies, and pickled red bird- pepper.CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 124 PICKLES, MIXED.-Plain pickles are sold not only in bottles by themselves, such as onions, beans, etc., but also in bottles mixed. This is, of course, a convenient form when no one form of pickle is preferred to another. A spoon- ful of plain mixed pickle can be chopped up and used for making pickle sauce, by being mixed with a spoonful of good brown gravy, and all warmed up to- gether. When the sauce is liked acid, the pickles and gravy may be mixed immediately the pickles are taken from the bottle. But should acidity in the flavour be objected to, take out a spoon- ful of pickles, chop them up, and place them in a frying-pan and let them warm sufficiently long for the pieces of pickle to get nearly dry. By thus evaporating the vinegar any very great acidity of flavour will be got rid of. PICKLED OX TONGUES. — See Tongues. PICNIC TONGUES.—See Tongues. PILAR AND CO.’S TOMATO CON- SERVE.—See Tomatoes. PILCHARDS IN OIL.—Pilchards in oil form a very excellent breakfast-dish, and now that so great difficulty is experienced in obtaining genuine sardines at all, it is often far better to ask for pilchards pre- served in oil, which are genuine, in pre- ference to too often getting sprats in oil under the name of sardines. Pilchards preserved in oil are very nice eaten exactly as they are. The tin should be opened, and the contents then be placed in a fancy jar (see Fancy Jars). Pil- chards are often eaten just like sardines, and are very nice with buttered toast. A little cayenne pepper and lemon juice should be served with them, as these very much assist to bring out the flavour. Another very nice dish that can be made from pilchards is that of “ Curried Pilchards.” As these tins can be kept for any length of time, this is a very convenient dish, as an extra dish, by its means, can be served at dinner or luncheon at a very few mo- ments’ notice. Open the tin, and pour the oil off from the pilchards into a fry- ing-pan, placing it over the fire. Next mix a dessert-spoonful of curry- powder, first moistening the curry-powder with a little water in a cup. Now take a small spoonful of arrowroot, and mix it with a little butter in a cup. Stir the curry-powder and oil in the frying-pan, and then gradually add the arrowroot and water. As soon as the whole mix- ture is as thick as gruel, add the pil- chards, putting the curry sauce as much as possible on to them. Make the pil- chards hot tlu-ough, and then place them in their dish, and pour the contents of the frying-pan over them. If there is time, some boiled rice should be served with them. An improvement to this curry would be the addition of a little curry-paste, as well as curry-powder. Also, if there are any bay-leaves in the house, four or five of them should be boiled in the mixture and served up with the fish whole. PINEAPPLE SYRUP. — Of all the various syrups sold I think pineapple is the most delicious. There are few syrups that make a more refreshing drink on a hot day than this, and the nicest form is to mix it with iced soda- water. It can also be taken by itself in plain water, ice being a great im provement. I have already, under the headingsof “ AprieotSyrup” and “Red- Currant Syrup,” called attention to the very great importance of these syrups being more largely used throughout the country than they are at present, as forming probably that necessary substi- tute for intoxicating liquor which is the only means of preventing habits of drinking being acquired by the rising | generation. The first essential is that \ this substitute should be as cheap as the cheapest form of intoxicating fluid. That old or middle-aged men would take to these syrups is very improbable. But it is with the young that the cure is simplest. The old saying that pre- vention is better than cure is more ap- plicable to this vice than to any other. Pineapple syrup is also sometimes used i for cooking purposes. A very delicious 1 pudding can be made from preserved pineapple, whether preserved in tins in j slices or preserved whole. This rich and high-class pudding is made exactly in the same way as ginger pudding is made from preserved ginger (see Ginger, Preserved), the only difference being that pineapple is used with the other ingredients instead of preserved ginger, and the pineapple syrup is used for making the sauce instead of the liquor in which the ginger was preserved.125 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. PINEAPPLES, CRYSTALLISED.—Crys- tallised pineapple is one of the most favourite forms of crystallised fruit; indeed it will be noticed that when a dish of crystallised fruits is handed round for dessert, containing slices of pineapple, almost invariably the pine- apple is the fruit that is first selected. When, therefore, a dish of crystallised fruits is prepared, it is the truest hospi- tality to obtain if possible an excess of pineapple over the other fruits compos- ing the dish. A rcallj’ good dessert consists in the variety of the dishes that will be eaten. Too often housekeepers are in the habit of serving their dessert on the system of having a variety of very pretty dishes to look at, but none of which they know will ever be eaten at all. PINEAPPLES IN SYRUP.—Pineapples are preserved cut in slices in tins in syrup. It is a very delicious dish, and is always very popular served just as it is for dessert. Preserved pineapple can also be used for making a very nice sweet. I have already described how to make borders of rice under the head- ing of “ Apricots in Tins.” (See Apri- cots in Rice Borders.) The tin should be opened, and the apricots piled up as high as possible in the centre of the dish. A little of the syrup can be coloured red ivith a little cochineal, and thickened with a little gelatine, to be poured round the base of the fruit be- tween the rice border and the dish itself ; but the pale yellow colour of the pine- apple is better as it is without the addi- tion of the red colouring matter, though a little red rim round the bottom of the pineapple, between it and the rice border, looks very pretty. A still greater im- provement to the dish is to surround the border of rice, outside the border on the dish, with a row of preserved greengages. Pineapples preserved this way are very often used for making pineapple pud- ding, a receipt for which will be found under the heading of “ Ginger, Pre- served”—(see Ginger, Preserved)— the only difference being that preserved pineapple is used instead of preserved ginger. in syrup, and the syrup of the pineapple is used for the sauce instead of the syrup in which the ginger is. preserved. There is one more very 11 h-'C compound that can be made with the assistance of slices of pineapple, On a cold winter’s night mix a good large glass of hot rum-and-water, taking care that the water is thoroughly boil- ing when it is mixed. Now take a slice of preserved pineapple and place it in the glass. This glass of pineapple rum- punch is extremely good. PINEAPPLES, WHOLE.—Pineapples are now preserved whole in tins, and are far superior to any pines that can be obtained in this country, with the ex- ception of course of hothouse pines. Hothouse pines, which sometimes cost from one guinea to two guineas each, are necessarily a luxury in which only the rich can indulge. Nearly all the pines which are sent over to this country are cut abroad in an unripe state, and they are supposed to ripen afterwards by keeping. But they not merely ripen but “rotten” at the same time. Very often pineapples are sold in the streets at a shilling each or even less, but all who have tried them know, when they | are cut, how different the inside is from ! the really ripe pine. The advantage of | these pines is that they have been pre- served whole, ripe, and really equal in flavour and appearance the most perfect hothouse pine which can be obtained. They are best served as they are at dessert) and the syrup in which they are preserved should of course be poured round their base. There are few dessert dishes more popular than these pre- served pines. PIQUANT SAUCE.—Piquant sauce is sold in bottles, but must not be con- founded with Sauce Piquante, made from gherkins and capers, to be served with cutlets. It is simply a sauce used to be eaten with cold meat, and may be added to hashes, stews, gravies, etc., when a a slight acidity is not objected to. Sauce piquante bottled does not contain any solid matter, but is simply an agreeable sauce to be eaten with cold meat. It is also well adapted as a fish sauce, to be eaten with fried soles, and is particularly good with cold fried fish. PISTACHIO KERNELS. — Pistachio kernels are a well-known delicacy, but their use is confined to what may be termed high-class cooking. Perhaps one of the most delicate of sweets that is ever served is pistachio cream. To make pistachio cream, the cook should120 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S bear in mind as much as possible to pre- serve the delicate flavour of the pimento kernel, and that any other flavour added to it, unless carefully chosen, will overpower the flavour of the pistachio kernels themselves. Take say eight ounces of pistachio kernels, throw them into boiling water, and rub them so as to remove the outer skin. Then place them in cold water in order to preserve their colour. Take them out of the cold water when cold and dry them in a cloth. Now pound them in a pestle and mortar, and mix with them a spoonful of orange-flower water, till they become a bright smooth paste. Next add six ounces of white sugar, and also mix in about an ounce and a half of clarified isinglass—that is, isinglass that has been dissolved in water and clarified with white of egg. As a rule the green colour of the pimento kernel itself will not be sufficient to impart colour to the cream. The cook should therefore add a teaspooful of spinach juice, or, still better, a teaspoonful of green colouring matter, sold in bottles, such as Breton’s colouring. Now mix the whole in with a pint of well whipped cream. When thoroughly mixed place it all in an oiled mould, and embed the mould in rough ice till the cream is set. It is of course needless to say that the isinglass should have been added warm. This is indeed a delicate and delicious cream. Pistachio kernels are very often used in cooking, and are well adapted to be placed in the middle of a dish such as galantine. They are also often used in boar’s head, such as galantine of boar’s head when truffle is used, and are of very great importance, not only to the appearance but the flavour. 'The little green kernels of the pistachio nut make a nice bright contrast with the red tongue and black truffle. I cannot too often impress on the minds of all cooks how very greatly these three colours, when mixed, improve the appearance of any dish. Pistachio kernels are also used in making several delicate rich dishes, that might be called Italian dishes. Space will not allow me to enter into the various dishes that can be made with the assistance of pistachio kernels, but I would particularly men- tion Spongadadi Roma, and Spongada di Vcnezza. PLOVER PATE, TRUFFLED.—A very j delicious breakfast disli is now supplied in the shape of pates made from plover, truffle, and forcemeat. Like all other game pates preserved in tins, the mix- ture is undoubtedly rich, but at the same time very nice, and forms a very agreeable change to the breakfast table. These tinned game pates are exceedingly useful for picnics. I would recommend those who have the management of picnics to see that the tins are placed in some water and ice before being opened. As these pates are somewhat rich, of course it is important that they should be cool and the fat hard. When a pate is opened that has been kept some time in a hot room, it is far less appetising than when fresh opened after being kept in a cool place. I have on several occasions called attention to the fact that the remains or fag ends of these tinned game pies mixed with truffle, etc., are exceedingly useful to the cook in helping to make almost any kind of rich forcemeat, and I have under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham Patd ”— (see Chicken-and-Ham Pate)—given receipts for making rissoles and kromes- kies, and also, under the heading of “ Foie Gras” (see Foie Gras), given a receipt for making Italian fritters. Of course when tinned goods are used, when they contain game they are more suited for making Italian fritters than rissoles and kromeskies. Still, how- ever, they do very well for both pur- poses. The fat contained in these pates imparts a most rich and decided flavour to any forcemeat; indeed so valuable is the fat which is impregnated with the flavour of truffle, that the cook will do well, whenever she has the remains of any tin of this kind, to utilise the fat at once in making some such dish as I have mentioned — namely, kromeskies or Italian fritters. PLOVERS, TRUFFLED. — Truffled plovers can now be obtained in tins. They differ somewhat from the pates, being more solid, and are not so much mixed with forcemeat. The tins as a rule contain a considerable amount of rich fat, but this fat can be utilised to make forcemeat of various kinds, for such purposes as rissoles and kromeskies, receipts for making which are given under the heading ‘‘Chicken- and-Ham Patesor the fat can be used for making Italian fritters, a receipt forHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 127 which will be found under the heading of “ Foie Gras.” When the plovers are preserved whole a very nice dish can be made by first of all removing from them all the rich fat by placing them for a short time in the oven, and then glazing them. A salad can be placed in the middle of the dish, made of either plain lettuce or a German salad made from macedoines (see Macedoines). The outside of the dish should be orna- mented with aspic jelly, and the aspic jelly sold in bottles is very suitable for the purpose (see Aspic Jelly in bottles). When the plovers are preserved whole the cook will probably experience some difficulty owing to the fact that the meat lias a tendency to drop from the bones. Very great care therefore should be exercised in taking the birds out of the tins. It is also important that when the plovers are glazed the glaze should be rich and strong, When glaze is in this form it will act as a species of glue. With the assistance of a brush and a little ingenuity the cook will often be able to fit the bird together and join on any part that has fallen off. The slices of meat on each side of the breast have a great tendency to give way, but a little brush of glaze and a little patience will very soon make it adhere, and when cold of course there is no fear of the part giving way. For making dishes from whole plovers tinned I would advise the cook to act almost exactly as in using truffled larks for the same purpose (see Larks, Truffled). PLUM JAM.—Plum jam is one of the most plentiful of all jams, and probably its consumption is increasing very rapidly year by year owing to the simple fact that butter has so greatly increased in price, and consequently many families now use jam for their children simply on the ground of economy. Housekeepers, especially where there are large families of chil- dren, would do well to bear in mind the fact that good jam is far more whole- some than bad butter, and that good butter is really a very scarce article, and also that what may be termed second-class*butter is too often a hor- ribly adulterated mess which is abso- lutely injurious to health. Plum jam is now a fixed institution in almost every nursery, and children prefer jam, as a rule, to butter ; and when children are delicate it is of the utmost import- ance for them to be induced to take as much wholesome nourishment as pos- sible. Children null always probably eat more bread smeared with jam than were it spread with butter. The conse- quence is that jam in the present day is a great saving, not only in the grocer’s bill, but in the doctor’s bill, which is far more important. Plum jam is always best when made in large quantities. Perhaps most housekeepers have noticed that tne jam which is sold in pots as a rule possesses a, far better colour than home-made jam. I would also once more remind those who have charge of young children to be on their guard against having too great a prejudice against sweets. Middle-aged men and women naturally regard toffee, jam, etc., as a nasty mess, but the food that is adapted for the middle-aged is not- necessarily that which is most suited for children. We have “ milk for babes and meat for strong men,” and the milk that Nature has supplied for the child contains a very large amount of sugar. Plum jam is perfectly harmless, and is thoroughly pure and wholesome when not taken in excess—that is, when the child is not allowed to help itself, but the bread is carefully spread with the jam. It will be found far more wholesome than the majo- rity of butters now sold. Of course, plum jam can be used for any purpose for which jam is used. It makes ad- mirable roly-poly puddings, and also excellent open tarts. It is also the base of all cheap open jam tarts. The small pastrycooks who sell raspberry-and-cur- rant tarts and strawberry-jam tarts are in the habit of placing a layer of plum jam at the bottom ana then covering it over with a thin film of strawberry or raspberry, the reason being simply that plum jam is far cheaper than jam made from strawberries or raspberries, and more easily to be obtained. PLUM PUDDINGS, TINNED.—Plum puddings can now be obtained ready made in tins, and they are very useful things to have in the house. To make good plum puddings is, of course, a work of time. With the assistance of one of these tins, however, a plum pudding can be served up hot in half an hour. The plum puddings supplied by128 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell are ex- ceedingly good, rich, and dark in colour. They are, however, all the better when served with a little sweet sauce. Make the pudding hot through by placing it on the fire in boiling water, taking care that the water keeps boiling. Then take the tin out of the saucepan, open it, and turn the pudding out on to a dish. Have ready the sauce to be served, which should be made as follows:— Take a quarter of a pint of water and add sufficient butter and flour to make the sauce about as thick as gruel. If the sauce is wanted very rich, three or four times the amount of butter originally used can be dissolved in the sauce. Next add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, having dissolved in the water six or seven lumps of sugar to make the sauce thoroughly sweet. Then add a table- spoonful of mm and a tablespoonful of brandy. Brandy sauce made from a mixture of brandy and rum is far supe- rior to brandy sauce made from brandy alone. One of the lumps of sugar should, previously to being dissolved in the sauce, have been rubbed on the outside of a lemon, so as to impart the flavour of lemon-peel. Housekeepers who are liable to be taken by surprise—i.e., who are occasionally called on to provide a little something extra, owing to the arrival of unexpected guests—would do well to have one or two of these tinned plum puddings by them. They are as cheap as they are delicious, and the amount of trouble saved is very con- siderable.. It is never worth while to make plum pudding in very small quantities, and where there are only one or two persons these tinned pud- dings are a great convenience. POIS GROS.— Pois gros are, as the name implies, large peas, which can be obtained in tins. I do not myself think that large peas are equal in flavour to small, but for some purposes they are more suited. For instance, in making ragouts, hashes, and stews, in which a number of vegetables are mixed, the big peas are better than the small. The hash made from stewed neck of mutton in which is turnip, carrot, and some onions, is very greatly improved by having a tin of good-sized peas mixed in with them. These big peas also make a very nice dish when served by themselves. They should be made hot through by placing the tin for about twenty minutes in boiling water. The tin should then be opened, the water strained off, and the peas turned into a hot vegetable dish, when either a table- spoonful of white sauce or plain butter can be added, With a little chopped parsley and lemon juice. Good white sauce is far better than butter, but either will do. The peas must be served very hot, and when it is iwssible they should be surrounded by fried crofltons of bread. When, however, the peas are served with another dish, such as roast lamb, roast leg of mutton, etc., it is better to serve them plain with the ad- dition of a few fresh mint leaves, a saltspoonful of salt, half a saltspoonful of sugar, and a little, pepper. This will make the peas slightly sweet, a taste which they are often very apt to lose after being preserved in tins. POIS PETITS.-The little fresh green peas are as a rule preferred to the larger kinds. An enormous quantity of these peas are now preserved in tins in France and sent over to this country, and as a rule the younger the peas are the better—indeed I have no hesitation in saying that many of these tins of peas are far superior to the majority of peas that can be obtained at any green- grocer’s or market in England, simply owing to the fact that English peas are allowed to grow too long, and that too great a length of time is allowed to elapse between the time of the peas being gathered and their being eaten. The preserving of green peas in this is an industry carried on largely in France and elsewhere. The peas are picked young and are tinned at once. These peas may be served in the English fashion with a joint, in which case they should be handed round perfectly plain. The peas are best warmed up in the tins themselves, by keeping the tin boiling for twenty minutes. The water should then be strained off and the peas turned into a vegetable dish. A few fresh mint-leaves boiled can be served with them, and also a dash of lemon-juiee, a little powdered sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, and half a saltspoonful of pepper, should be added to them? When the peas are served in the French fashion, as a dish by themselves, they require the addition of a little butter or white sauce. A couple of tablespoonfuls ofHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 129 sauce can be added to the tin of peas, and the whole tossed lightly. A'small quantity of chopped parsley should be sprinkled over them, and a little lemon juice and pepper and salt added. Some cooks in serving French green peas will add nutmeg, and it is a very common thing on some parts of the Continent, especially Germany, for cooks to add mace. My own opinion is that the peas are better without either. When butter is mixed with young green peas they also require a little chopped parsley, a little lemon juice, and a little plain pepper, sugar, and salt. PONCON’S LISBON FRUITS.—Some of the finest preserved fruits imported into this country are known under the name of Poncon’s Lisbon fruits. The following are probably the best kinds. Apricots in syrup, apricots in tins, apricot marmalade in glass jars, peaches in syrup, peaches in juice. Tomatoes are also imported whole in tins, and also tomato conserve, which is really the pure pulp of tomatoes perfectly free from any kind of flavour. It is sent over in bottles. A full description of how to use all these most important articles will be found under their re- spective headings. PORK PATES,—Pork pates in tins make an agreeable variety at the break- fast table. These pork patee are some- what rich, and should be rightly de- scribed as a species of pork forcemeat. They are generally supplied in tins which require a patent opener somewhat like a key for winding up a clock. A strip of tin is cut off round the edge, and the pate can then easily be turned out whole on to a dish. “Little pieces of cut lemon can be used to ornament the pate when it is turned out. These pork pates are more suited as a little bon bouche than as a substantial dish. Like other tinned pates, the remains should be utilised by the cook for making forcemeat. Under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham Pattis” will be found a receipt for making rissoles and kromes- kies from the remains of pates. Pork ates before they are opened should be ept in a cool place. Pork is proverbi- ally more suited for winter than summer, and on a very hot day I do not think these pork pies are at all desirable. Should they, however, be used on such an occasion, they will be very nice if be- fore being opened the tin is immersed in a little iced water, say for half an hour. If the tin is now opened the in- side is of course deliciously cool, and the patfi will be rendered far more agree- able. After it has been kept in a hot room in summer for any length of time the pate is moist in appearance and as nasty to eat as a piece of ordinary cold pickled pork would be when exposed to heat. POTATO FLOUR.—Potato flour is a species of pure starch, and is very useful to the cook for various kinds of thicken- ing purposes. M. Francatelli recom- mends it for making omelette souffle. POTTED FISH.—Various kinds of fish can now be obtained in tins. An- chovy paste and bloater paste are both species of potted fish in then- way. There is also now potted lobster, potted salmon, and potted shrimp paste. A description of how to use these useful preserved fish will be found under their respective headings. POTTED MEATS.—A description of the different uses of various potted meats now to be obtained will be found under their respective headings— namely, potted beef, potted ham, potted ham-and-chicken, potted Stras- burg meat, potted turkey, potted turkey- and-tongue, devilled ham, potted au cliable, potted game, etc. PRAWNS, CURRIED, HALFORD’S.— See Curried Meats. PRESERVED FISH.—See VARIOUS' Headings. PRESERVED GINGER.—See Ginger. PRESERVED MEATS.—See Various Headings. PRINCE OF WALES’ SALAD SAUCE.— The Prince of Wales’ salad sauce is a very nice and useful sauce, which can be obtained in bottles. It very much resembles a first-class old-fashioned salad dressing. Of late years of course the most fashionable salad dressings have been _ a base of mayonnaise, or salad dressing composed chiefly of oil and vinegar, in which the proportion of oil very far exceeds that of the vinegar, with the addition of pepper and salt. This is the kind of salad dressing called K130 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S salad d la Fmngaise. The Prince of Wales’ salad dressing, however, contains a certain amount of mustard and sugar, which makes it very agreeable. It is especially nice when eaten with small salad, such as mustard and cress, etc. Those who are not fond of mayonnaise or too much oil would do well to make a trial of this very nice and agreeable salad dressing. PROVENCE OIL.—See Oil. PUNCH JELLY.—Punch jelly can now be had in bottles containing half-pints, pints, or quarts. It is particularly suitable to be placed with other kinds of jelly in very small moulds, when one mould is sufficient for each person. Of course when jellies are in bottles they are suited for both summer and winter use. Should the season in which the jelly is used be hot, and should the cook have the advantage of a little rough ice, this punch jelly before being poured into the mould will bear the addition of a little extra sugar and also a little extra rum. If the mould of punch jelly is wished to be very nice indeed I would recommend the cook to take a quart bottle and to dissolve it by placing the bottle in lukewarm water, but not to make the jelly too hot. Next take a dozen lumps of sugar and rub some of the suga*r on the outside of a lemon. Dissolve these in the jelly, taking care that the sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Now add to the jelly rather more than a, quarter of a pint of rum, or, even better, equal quantities of rum and brandy. A still greater improvement is the addition of a dessert-spoonful of maraschino as well as the rum. Pour the jelly when nearly cold into a mould and set the mould in ice. If ice is used for it, or if it has been allowed to set in a cold place, there is no doubt about its turning out right. The jelly sheuld not be turned out till just before it is wanted, as one of its greatest attractions is its extreme coolness. This jelly is always a popular one. PUNCH, MILK.—See Milk Punch. PRESERVED MUSHROOMS. — See Mushrooms. QUAILS, PATES OF, TRUFFLED.— Pates of truffled quails form an exceed- ingly nice breakfast or luncheon dish. These pates are generally preserved in tins which are opened with a patent opener somewhat like' a clock-key, and a strip of tin is taken off round the edge, which enables the cook to turn out the pate complete as it is. When the pate is turned out it should be ornamented with a little parsley and a little cut lemon. These exceedingly nice delica- cies are suitable to be used on occasions such as picnics, especially when game is not in season. When this is done the tin should always be immersed for some time in a little iced water, as the pate itself is far more agreeable when quite cold than when it has been subjected to the heat of a summer’s day. Cooks would do well to bear in mind that the remains of these pates are exceedingly useful for making forcemeat. Under the heading of “ Cluclcen-and-Ham Pates” will be found receipts for making ris- soles and kromeskies, and under the heading of “Poie Gras” will be found another receipt for making Italian fritters. As quails are decidedly gamy in flavour, and also as the forcemeat mixed with them is generally impreg- nated with the flavour of truffle, the remains of these pates will bo found more suitable for making Italian fritters than rissoles or kromeskies. Still, how- ever, the remains of these pates form an agreeable addition to almost every kind of mixed forcemeat. The cook should be careful also to use up all the fat by which the pate is surrounded. QUAILS, TRUFFLED.—Quails stuffed until truffles are sometimes preserved whole in tins. When they are pre- served in this sli^pe a very consider- able amount of fat will be found in the tin with them. They can be eaten as they are, and in cold weather some of the fat can be eaten.with them. The fat is, however, very rich, and the cook will find it useful to assist her in making any kind of rich forcemeat. The quails can be taken out of the tin whole, and after the fat has been removed, which can be done by placing them in the oven for a short time, the quails themselves can be covered with glaze and placed on a dish with a salad composed of macedoines piled up in the middle, while on the base of the dish should be placed some aspic jelly. In this form they make a very nice dish suitable for supper, and after the quails have beenHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. glazed they can bo ornamented on their breasts with a little piping. Another nice dish can be made from these quails by using some rich forcemeat. Fill some paper cases with the forcemeat, and the quail itself should be placed on the top of the paper case, and the whole made hot in the oven. Of course both the forcemeat and the quails should be warmed before being placed in the paper cases. QUINCE MARMALADE.—Quince mar malade is a very nice preserve. It is sent over to this country generally in glass jars; the marmalade itself is made in Portugal. It is slightly acid in flavour, and is very useful for making a variety of rich puddings, in addition to which it can of course be eaten by itself, but it forms a very agreeable sweet, and may be used for all purposes for which ordinary marmalade is used. Under the heading of Brandy Cherries I have given a receipt for making a pudding known as “ Kendal pudding.” Quince marmalade would form one of the best jams for making this pudding in al- ternate layers with either strawberry or raspberry jam, its slightly acid flavour contrasting well with the sweeter taste of the jam. (w-^ijABBIT, CURRIED, HAL- K PS? FORD’S.—See Curried RADISH, HORSE-, PICKLED.—See Horseradish. RAGOUT, FINANCIERE. —See Finan- ciers Ragout. RASPBERRIES AND CURRANTS, BOTTLED.—See CURRANTS AND Rasp- berries. RASPBERRIES, BOTTLED. — Rasp- berries can now be obtained in bottles, and are useful for making a variety of dishes. They are as a rule far better when mixed with some other kind of fruit, especially currants. In making raspberry tarts from bottled raspberries the cook should first of all strain off the juice, boil it, and dissolve somo sugar in it so as to sweeten it, as bottled rasp- berries are not sweet. This should be allowed to get cold and the raspberries added to it. Place them in a pie-disli and cover with a puff paste. As soon as the pastry is cooked the pie is done. The cook should remember that these raspberries are already cooked, and she should endeavour as much as possible not to break them up. Otherwise the tart will consist of a species of moist pulp in which pips will appear to pre- dominate. RASPBERRIES, CRYSTALLISED.— Crystallised raspberries are a very deli- cious fruit, and form a very nice addi- tion to a dish of mixed crystallised fruits. They can be used like cherries to fill up the chinks in a dish of fruits, which fruits should always be piled up in a pyramid form, green being the pre- dominant colour round the base. For this purpose crystallised greengages or crystallised almonds will be found best. RASPBERRIES IN SYRUP. — Rasp- berries in syrup will make an excellent raspberry tart, and they do not require the addition of any sugar. They can be piled up in a pie-dish, covered with puff paste, and baked at once. Raspber- ries in syrup form a very nice dish by themselves. The bottles simply require to be opened and the raspberries turned out on to a dish. Devonshire cream is a very nice addition. Over the dish can be placed some whipped cream when cream can be obtained. When the disli of raspberries in syrup is covered with whipped cream it can be ornamented by adding a little pink sugar. Pinlc sugar is made by taking some rather coarsely pounded sugar and placing it in a saucer with a little cochineal or any red vegetable colouring. The sugar should be as much as possible of one size. It may be first of all shaken through a coarse sieve and then sifted in a finer sieve. The sugar can be sprinkled on the top of the whipped cream, but not until the last moment, as it has a tendency to break through the cream and destroy its consistency. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.—Raspberry vinegar is probably the oldest of all syrups (if it may be so called) known. It forms a most delicious drink on a hot day, mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water, or it can be mixed with plain water, ice of course being always an improvement. Raspberry vinegar, owing to its slight acidity, forms, in addition to being a delicious drink, a most valuable medicine. It is132 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S often used with great success in cases of j sore throat, and is very efficacious in remedying hoarseness of speech brought j on by over-exertion in public. Pro- bably there is no remedy for that well- known complaint known as the clerical throat equal to raspberry vinegar. RASPBERRY JAM.—Raspberry jam j is extremely popular, especially with | children. Indeed, with many persons j perhaps one of their earliest recollec- j tions will be the oval raspberry jam | tart, which is in nearly every one’s j mind the first thing they can recol- j lect in connection with cooking. Rasp- j berry jam can of course be eaten alone, | and is one of the most popular jams | served at any time, either at supper j or breakfast. It can also be used for i making every kind of open tart. There is one use, however, to which raspberry jam can he put, which is not so gene- rally known, and that is for making ices. There are few ices nicer than j raspberry, and in the present day refri- i gerators or ice-making machines are so j exceedingly cheap that they are within the reach of every housekeeper. A re- ceipt for making raspberry ice from jam is well worth remembering. _ House- keepers will do well to bear in mind how very cheaply ices are now sold in the streets. It is perfectly ridiculous to regard ices as an expensive luxury, when the very fact is brought before our eyes that they are sold for a | penny and the sellers make a living out of it. In making cheap ice of course it is impossible to use cream. When cream is obtainable—and in some parts of the country it can be had cheap—it is of course far superior to any substitute. In making cream ice from raspberry jam all that is necessary is to mix up say a quarter of a pint of raspberry jam with half a pint of cream. This must be thoroughly j mixed, wrhen it simply requires freez- j ing to be converted into raspberry ice. Of course when ices are made from fresh fruit they require the addi- tion of a considerable amount of sugar. In making raspberry jam perhaps the amount of sugar to be added to fresh ripe fruit averages about three quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of fruit. Indeed this is the proper pro- portion for making all jams from fresh fruit. Some slight allowance of course must be made for the ripeness of the fruit. When the fruit is very ripe and sweet it requires rather less sugar, but when it is somewhat doubtful as to its ripeness it requires more sugar. Jam, however, as I have before said, is far better made in large quantities. In making ices from raspberry jam it will as a rule be found that cream can- not be obtained, or that its price i;; prohibitive. However, the cook can make an excellent substitute for cream as follows: Take half a pint of milk, beat up in it the yolks of two eggs, and add to it a tablespoonful of Swiss milk and a little sugar. This should then be stirred over the fire till its consistency becomes that of good cream. This is now suited for making every kind of cream ice. If the ices are fruit ices, a quarter of a pound of fruit or jam should be added to this mixture, but when jam is used the mixture need not have the addition of any sugar whatever, as the Swiss milk will be quite sufficient to render it sweet. If cream ices are to be used the mixture itself can be flavoured with some essence of vanilla, essence of almonds, or indeed any kind of flavour, and the mixture frozen. The ice can then be served as vanilla cream ice, almond ice, etc. A tin of preserved apricots can be used for making apricot ice (see Apricots). There is perhaps one drawback to raspberry ice, and that is that it contains the pips of the rasp- berries. RASPBERRY JELLY. — Raspberry jelly is an extremely nice jelly eaten by itself. It is perhaps more suited to be served at dessert than after dinner, owing to its great sweetness. It is a preserve rather than wThat would be termed a jelly, and corresponds to the order of jellies such as damson cheese, etc. Under the heading of Raspberry Jam, I have already given directions how to make raspberry ice, and I con- cluded my receipt by stating that the drawback to the raspberry ice made from raspberries ivas that the ice con- tained pips. Raspberry jelly is better adapted for making ice than raspberry jam, owing to the fact that there are no pips in the jelly at all. A quarter of a pint of raspberry jelly can be thoroughly mixed with half a pint of cream, and the mixture frozen. When cream can- not be obtained, an excellent substitute133 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. can be made by mixing up half a pint of milk with the yolks of two eggs and a tablespoonful of Swiss milk. This mix- ture should be stirred over the fire till it is as thick as ordinary cream ; the cream can be added to the jelly, and the whole frozen. Great care should be taken to mix the whole thoroughly together. The jelly sold by manufacturers is, as a rule, of a very good colour. This is owing to the addition of red-currant juice. I merely mention the fact as there are many housekeepers in the country who make home-made jelly who are unaware that raspberry jelly requires the addition of red-currant juice in order togive it a thoroughly good, brilliant colour. Baspberry ice, whether made with jam or jelly or fresh fruit, can be very greatly improved in colour by the addition of a little of the car- mine vegetable colouring manufactured by Breton and sold in bottles (see Vege- table Colouring, Breton’s). BASPBERRY SYRUP. — Baspberry syrup makes a very delicious drink on a hot day. It is nicest when mixed with a bottle of iced soda-water, or with plain water to which a lump of ice has been added. Baspberry syrup is also very useful to be used as a sauce for all kinds of puddings. For instance, cus- tard pudding, baked in an ordinary pie- dish, can be turned out whole, and a little raspberry syrup mixed with a little water poured over it. When raspberry syrup is used as a sauce for any land of dish, it is sometimes an improvement to add a small quantity of water and lemon juice, which gives it a slight tone. Baspberry syrup is also a very nice accompaniment to cold boiled rice. When any rice which has been boiled to serve with curry or mulligatawny soup, etc., is left, it can be served up cold, and it makes a very suitable dish for children’s tea when mixed with any kind of syrup, such as raspberry syrup. RATAFIA, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of ratafia resembles very much both es- sence of almonds and essence of mara- schino. It is rather more delicate in flavour than essence of almonds, and is used for a variety of purposes, such as flavouring puddings, cakes, etc. Essence of ratafia can be used for making rata- fias, and it is also very useful for impart- ing additional flavour to claret cup when noyeau cannot be obtained. Three or four drops of the essence should be poured into a tablespoon, and the spoon then filled up with brandy and well stirred. This should then be added to the claret cup. Like other essences, it must be used with extreme caution, as it is very strong, and its flavour is apt to overpower all other flavour. The essence of ratafia sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell is guaranteed to be free from prussic acid. READING SAUCE.—Beading sauce is one of the oldest sauces in existence. It is a clear sauce, with a delicious flavour, and is free from heat. It is used with chops, steaks, hashes, stews, and is also exceedingly nice with every kind of fried fish. It can also be mixed with melted butter to make sauce for any kind of fish, either boiled or fried. Bead- ing sauce was the cause of an old- fashioned standing joke at the Universi- ties of Oxford and Cambridge for many years. When any young freshman arrived it was a common thing for him to be taken by an older and wiser com- panion to the grocer’s and prompted to purchase a bottle of Beading sauce, on the ground that it would assist him in reading, and the sauce was of course supplied, to the great delight of the lookers-on. RED BIRD-PEPPER, PICKLED.—This is a species of small pickle. It is very hot, and suited to those who are pos- sessed of what may be termed Indian tastes. It is also well suited to be used as a garnish, when the pepper can be served whole. The “ un-Indian ” palate should partake of this with care, espe- cially the yellow pips. RED CABBAGE, PICKLED.—See Cab- bage, Bed. RED VEGETABLE COLOURING.—See Vegetable Colouring. RED-CURRANT JAM.—See Currant Jam. RED-CURRANT JELLY.—See Cur- rant Jelly. RED CURRANTS AND RASPBER- RIES.—See Currants and Baspber- ries. RED CURRANTS, BOTTLED. — See Currants.134 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S RED-CURRANT SYRUP.—See Cur- rant Syrup. REINDEER TONGUES.—See Tongues. RENNET, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of rennet is a liquid sold in bottles, and it is used for the purpose of curdling milk. Milk is sometimes curdled simply for the purpose of making curds and whey. Perhaps the best method of curdling milk is first of all to place it in a sauce- pan, and place the saucepan on the fire. The rennet is added the moment the first bubble makes its appearance, show- ing that the milk is very nearly on the point of boiling. The essence of ren- net sold in bottles is usually made of such strength that a dessert-spoonful is sufficient to curdle a pint of milk when lukewarm. Probably the greatest use of rennet is for making cheesecakes, which are made from the curds obtained by curdling the milk. There are few sweets nicer than cheesecakes when properly made, and there is no doubt that cheesecakes made from curds are far superior to any imitation. In order to make cheesecakes from curds act as follows :—Take eight ounces of curds, and see that they are sufficiently well pressed to get rid of all the fluid. This should be pounded in a mortar with six ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, the yolks of six eggs, and two ounces of crushed ratafias. This can bo flavoured either with orange-peel or lemon-peel. When flavoured with orange-peel the whole of the sugar should be rubbed on the outside of four or five clean oranges, and when flavoured with lemon-peel the sugar should be rubbed on the outside of three clean lemons. Cheesecakes can also be fla- voured with essence of vanilla and various other kinds of flavourings. All the ingredients should be thoroughly mixed till they become a soft paste, which can then be used for filling small open tarts. It is a common thing to cut thin strips of candied lemon-peel and place them on the top. These cheesecakes should be baked in the oven, and when the pastry is done the cheese- cake itself can be coloured instantly with the assistance of a salamander. Cooks should never keep these cheese- cakes in the oven longer than is neces- sary for baking the pastry, or the pastry will become hard and dried up. For the benefit of inexperienced cooks, I | will explain that a salamander is simply I a piece of red-hot iron, which is com- monly met with in all French kitchens, but not so often in English. Before using it is placed in the fire sufficiently long to make it red-hot. A very simple salamander can be made by placing the kitchen shovel in the fire until it is red- hot. The cheesecake will colour in- stantly if the salamander be held at the distance of about an eighth of an inch off. A very nice way of making cheese- cakes is to take an ordinary pie-dish, and line the edge with puff-paste in the usual way. Now fill up the dish with the mixture, as before directed, and place it in the oven. The top of the cheesecake can be coloured with a sala- mander, but the mixture itself will re- quire baking longer than an ordinary cheesecake, owing to its depth. RHUBARB, BOTTLED.—Rhubarb can now be obtained preserved in bottles, and is very useful for making rhubarb tart when rhubarb is not in season. Good spring rhubarb should look pink, and housekeepers can easily improve the appearance of pale rhubarb by the addition of a few drops of cochineal or vegetable colouring matter. (See Vege- table Colouring.) Bottled rhubarb can also be used for making open tarts. When used for this purpose it requires the addition of a very considerable quantity of sugar—about three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a bottle of rhu- barb. In making rhubarb tart from bottled rhubarb, housekeepers should bear in mind that the rhubarb is already cooked, and' as soon as the pastry is cooked the pie is ready. Rhubarb tart is far nicer cold than hot. RIBBON MACARONI. — See Maca- roni. ROGNONS DE COQ.—Rognons de coq are sold in bottles and are useful as an addition to financierc ragout, ragout a la Toulouse, and ragout a la tortue. A de- scription of ragout financierc and ragout (l la Toulouse will be found under the heading of “ Financihre Ragout.” In making ragout & la tortue the cook should proceed as follows :—Place a good-sized gravy-spoonful of white coclt’s-combs in a stewpan with some cock’s kernels, small truffles, some button mushrooms, some quinelles of forcemeat, and a few gherkins cut into135 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. the shape of olives, and to this should be added a small quantity of sauce known to foreign cooks as turtle sauce. Turtle sauce is served with tUc de veau en tortuc. It is simply good rich brown gravy, to which has been added, say to half a pint of gravy, a wineglass of madeira, a tablespoonful of tomato sauce, and a small quantity of mush- room catsup. Before serving the sauce a little lemon-juice should be added. Many cooks also add to this sauce a small quantity of anchovy butter, which is made by taking, say, two filleted anchovies, and pounding them to a very smooth paste in a mortar with an equal quantity of butter. I do not wish to differ in opinion from so many cele- brated cooks, but, to my own individual taste, I do not think the addition of anchovies to turtle sauce an improve- ment. ROSE FLOWER WATER—Rose water needs no description. It is a delicious scent, and is very commonly handed round after dinner in order that persons may dip the comers of their napkins into it and use it for wiping their lips, moustache, or beard. The scent is ex- tremely delicate. ROUX, BROWN.—Brown roux is one of the most simple and at the same time most useful substances used in cooking. It seems a most extraordinary fact, but it is none the less true, that the majority of English women-cooks are absolutely unacquainted with the exist- ence of brown roux, a substance, on the other hand, that the French cook uses fifty times a day. Brown roux is used for thickening every kind of soup and brown gravy. In England women- cooks are in the habit of thickening their soups and gravies with butter and flour. Brown roux is butter and flour, but every grain of flour used in its com- position has been first fried a light brown colour. It is wonderful what a difference the frying or baking of the flour first makes in the flavour of the soup. There is just as much difference between the flavour of soup that has been thickened with brown roux and soup thickened with ordinary butter and flour, as between the rich taste of puff paste after it has been baked and a piece of raw pie-crust. It is astonish- ing that English cooks will either not believe this or will not take the trouble to make brown roux. Till they do so the majority of English people must put up with the absence of the flavour in their soups and gravies, but I have no hesitation in saying that brown roux is absolutely essential to all even mode- rate cooking. Brown roux is very easily made, and if the cook only knew, it is also a great saving of trouble. It can be made in large quantities and will keep good for months, and when cooks are making soups and gravies they wall find it very much better than butter and flour. When brown roux is once made it is always ready to hand. To make brown roux act as follows. I will de- scribe how to make a small quantity for the benefit of small households. Take half a pound of flour and see that it is thoroughly dry. Then sift it. The best mode of drying flour is to spread a large newspaper in front of a fierce fire and sift the flour on to the newspaper. It dries much better when spread out in this way. Next take half a pound of good butter and clarify it. Butter is clarified as follows : Place half a pound in a stewpan over the fire till the butter is oiled. The cook will now observe that on the top of the butter there is a slight amount of scum, and at the bottom there wall be a milky substance, which is the dregs. Remove the scum by skimming the butter. Then pour off the butter, taking care that all the dregs are left behind. This is now butter properly clarified, and is the snbstance that is used for covering over every kind of potted meat. Next mix the half-pound of flour into the butter, place it in an enamelled stewpan, and stir it over a fierce fire till it begins to turn colour. Directly it begins to turn colour the cook should be careful not to burn it. It is best to remove the stewpan from the fire and continue stirring and then to replace it on the fire. As soon as the whole mixture has assumed what may be termed a light fawn colour, it should be removed from the fire altogether. If an enamelled stewpan has been used, owing to this retaining the heat the mixture will go on frizzling for quite a quarter of an hour after it has been removed from the fire. It is generally best to slacken the heat by throwing into the mixture a large slice of cut raw onion. This will increase the spluttering, but it tends to check the heat, while the136 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S onion itself, which will very soon turn brown, imparts a slight richness to the brown roux. The onion should be re- moved from the roux when the latter is sufficiently coloured, and the roux should be poured into pots and put by for use. Empty marmalade pots are very useful for keeping roux. As the roux settles a certain amount of clarified butter swims at the top. This will keep it good for months, and when cold it has exactly the appearance of choco- late, and is almost of the same consis- tency. This brown roux is now useful for thickening every kind of soup and gravy. Of course the soup or gravy will not thicken until it boils. When brown roux is used for thickening any kind of soup or gravy, the cook should bear in mind that the roux itself con- tains butter, and that when the soup or gravy is required perfectly free from fat, this fat requires to be removed. This can only be done by allowing it to boil, gently by the side of the fire, when the soup will throw up its grease. A great assistance to the soup in throwing up the fat is to throw in very small quanti- ties of cold water. The grease can then be removed by skimming. There is no doubt that one great cause of indiges- tion is the carelessness of the cook in not removing the fat from soups. Of course brown roux is best when made with butter, but there are many circum- stances under which butter cannot be obtained, especially in the case of long voyages or in very hot climates. Brown roux will not keep good when exposed to excessive heat such as that of the Red Sea. On board large ships very small quantities of butter are allowed every day to the cooks, who use fat for making roux instead. Cooks should remember that it is not the butter that thickens the soup, but the flour, and when they add raw flour the effect on the soup or gravy is to give it a gruelly taste, but when they add flour every minute grain of which has been fried a brown colour in butter or fat, they not only thicken the soup but impart a richness as well. Of course when the roux has been made with fat or dripping of any kind, the greatest care must be taken to remove all the fat. The Peninsular and Orien- tal Steamship Company’s ships owe a great deal of their deserved popularity to the very great care which they take ip always obtaining the best cooks possible for all their ships. It is of v course impossible for them to allow more than a certain quantity of butter to the cook in one day. When brown roux is made from fat the cook is well aware of the importance of getting rid of this fat afterwards. As soups and gravies are made in wholesale quantities on board ship, it is far easier to remove the fat than \vould be the case in making it in small kitchens. I simply mention this fact for the benefit of those who make soups in wholesale quantities, but I would caution house- keepers when making soup or gravy by the half-pint against using brown roux unless it is made with butter. It is only when used in large quantities that when made with fat tne greasiness can be perfectly removed. ROUX, WHITE. — White roux is the same as brown roux, with the simple exception of the colour. In making white roux proceed as in making brown roux, only the moment any symptoms exhibit themselves of the mixture turn- ing colour, remove the stewpan from the fire and slacken the heat. White roux is simply flour baked sufficiently long in the butter to be cooked without turning colour. It is useful for thicken- ing any kind of white sauce or white soup. White roux is used for thicken- ing bechamel sauce, sauce supreme, and every kind of soup made with milk, such as Palestine soup, cauliflower soup, celery soup, etc. ROYAL TABLE SAUCE.—Royal table sauce is an exceedingly nice sauce, which can be used for chops, steaks, hashes, stews, etc. This sauce is also exceedingly nice mixed with melted butter for any kind of fish, either fried or boiled. RUSSIAN CAVIARE.—See Caviare. RUSSIAN OX TONGUES. — See Tongues. AGE, ESSENCE OF—Essence of sage is a convenient form of imparting the flavour of sage when fresh sage leaves cannot be obtained. Like all essences, it must be used with consi- derable caution — three or four dropsHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 137 being, as a rule, sufficient to flavour lialf a pint or more of fluid. SAGO FLOUR.—See Infants’ Food. ST. VINCENT ARROWROOT. — See Ahrowkoot. SALAD CREAM.—Salad cream can now be obtained ready made in bottles. It is very similar to mayonnaise sauce (see Mayonnaise Sauce), but it is not of quite so thick a consistency. The salad cream sold in bottles requires no- thing to be added to it, except perhaps a little pepper and salt, according to taste. It is amply acid enough for the purpose of dressing every kind of salad, and it is also slightly flavoured with tarragon, which gives it a somewhat scented taste. This salad cream is suited for nearly every kind of salad, especially lettuce and mustard-and- cress, and can also be used for dressing German salads. It is, however, better adapted for lettuce, and mustard-and- cress, etc., but is not suited for dressing cucumber. SALAD OIL.—See Oil. SALMON PRESERVED IN TINS.— Salmon preserved in tins is one of the most useful of all the various preserved fish now sold. In the first place it makes an admirable luncheon or break- fast dish served just as it is, only requir- ing the addition of a little vinegar, oil, pepper, and salt to dress it. Tinned salmon can be served hot, but its best form when heated is in the shape of sal- mon cutlets. In order to make salmon cutlets, take a tin of salmon, and pound the fish, or some of it, in a mortar, with a piece of onion (about the size of the top of the thumb), chopped very fine. Add to it a teaspoonful of chopped green parsley, and, if it is possible to obtain it, a little lobster butter will make the sal- mon look better in colour. Add also a small quantity of butter, some black pepper, and a dessert-spoonful of an- chovy sauce. When the whole has been pounded together till it is a smooth paste, of the consistency of putty, mould the paste into little cutlets about the size of an oval picnic biscuit. These little cutlets must be first floured, and then dipped in some well beaten-up egg, and covered with some very fine bread- crumbs. They should now be put by to dry for about an hour, or rather more. A few minutes before they are wanted to be served they should be plunged for a few seconds into smoking hot fat; the temperature of the fat should be quite 350 degrees. Half a minute is amply sufficient to cook them and to fry them a nice bright golden-brown colour out- side. These cutlets should now be served on a dish, with a little double parsley fried. They can be served either at breakfast, luncheon, or din- ner. When served as a breakfast dish, instead of ornamenting the cut- lets with fried parsley, a very nice way of sending them to table is with some pickle sauce. Take a brimming tablespoonful of Captain White’s Ori- ental Pickle, or a tablespoonful of im- perial pickles or piccalilli can be used. These pickles should be cut up rather fine, and made hot, with about a table- spoonful of some good brown gravy. This should be poured in the middle of the dish of cutlets, but it should not be poured over the cutlets themselves. Tinned salmon is also very useful for making sandwiches. There has of late years been a tendency to serve what are known as sandwich suppers, and from a tin of salmon, when salmon is out of season, ar large number of very excellent sandwiches can be made. Take a tin of salmon, bearing in mind that the red portions are best for this purpose; pound it in a mortar with a little butter, the mortar having been previously rubbed with slices of onion. Sufficient butter should be added, so that, when pounded, it is of a consistency to be spread like but- ter with a knife. Also add, to a whole tin of salmon, very nearly two teaspoonfuls of very finely chopped parsley. A little tarragon vinegar can also be added, but with very great caution, for cooks should remember that the flavour of tarragon is very strong, and likely to overpower every other flavour. A dessert-spoonful of anchovy sauce can also be added to this, and the whole mixed very thoroughly together. Now, if the occasion is one of considerable importance, house- keepers would do well to serve the sandwiches between two thin pieces of fried bread, which is far superior to ordinary cut bread. When fried bread is used for sandwiches, the salmon should be spread lightly over each of the pieces of fried bread, and then two pieces put together.' The sand-138 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S wiches should be piled up in a pyra- mid form on a dish, and the base of. the dish can be ornamented with bright green parsley. A few slices of the best part of the salmon should be put by when the tin is first opened, to be laid on the parsley at the base of the dish, so that this will denote what the sandwiches are. Potted salmon is also very useful for making salmon salad. This tinned salmon makes, too, a very excellent salad mayonnaise. Open a tin and take out the salmon, being as careful as possible to keep the fish in slices. It should also be drained from any liquor which may be in the tin. Next take a silver dish, and pile up two or three French lettuces in the middle, taking care that they are per- fectly clean, and each leaf separated from every other leaf. Let these be piled up in the shape of a dome. The salmon should then be placed round the base, and the mayonnaise sauce spread over the top. A very good instrument for spreading mayon- naise sauce, when a silver knife cannot be obtained, is an ordinary paper-knife. A steel knife should never be used, as it is apt to make the sauce taste of the knife. If the mayonnaise sauce is made at home it should be flavoured with a very little tarragon vinegar, but if it is taken from a tin it is so perfectly made that it requires no addition of any kind whatever. In or- namenting the salad, round the base outside should be placed some cold boiled eggs cut into quarters. About a couple of dozen stoned olives should also be placed round the dish, and a trellis-work can be made round the base on the sauce itself with some fillets of anchovy (see Anchovies, How to Fil- let). A few bright French capers should be dried and stuck in the sauce at inter- vals of about an inch apart, while finely- chopped chilies should be shaken over, and a few specks of lobster coral may be shaken over it as well. If no lobster coral can be obtained it is very easy to colour a few bread-crumbs pink with cochineal, and to use them instead. This is an admirable dish lor supper- parties at all times of the year. Of course, in those households in the coun- try where the housekeeper has taken the precaution to have by her one or two tins of preserved salmon and one or two tins of mayonnaise sauce, a first-class, handsome-looking dish can always be placed on the table at a few minutes’ notice. SALTS, VARIOUS.—In addition to ordinary table-salt, which is always best obtained in tins ready ground, there are now various other kinds of salt to be ob- tained, such as browning salt, celery salt, savoury salt, etc. I would strongly recommend housekeepers to make a trial of these various salts, which can now be obtained from most grocers. The celery salt imparts the additional flavour of celery. Most housekeepers know how important it is in making soups, sauces, and gravies to occa- sionally impart the flavour of celery. When celery itself cannot be obtained fresh, this salt is an excellent substitute. Browning salt is also used, not only for salting, but for rendering the sauce of a dark rich brown colour. Savoury salt imparts a rich flavour to sauces and gravies. It is quite impossible to de- scribe the exact flavour given by these salts, which can only be properly appre- ciated by giving them what they so richly deserve, a fair trial. SARDINES.—Sardines have for many years past been perhaps the most popular form of preserved fish, and are generally served at breakfast. Unfortunately, of late years they have become somewhat scarce, owing to the dishonesty of some foreign importers, who persist in obtain- ing hundreds of tons of sprats, which are placed in tins and sold instead of the delicious little fish itself. Hundreds of tons of sprats are annually exported from this country and reimported as sardines, the manufacture taking place abroad. Good judges of sardines can detect instantly a very vast difference between sardines and sprats preserved in oil. Genuine sardines can still be obtained, but the only method to pur- sue in order to ensure getting the genuine article is to purchase them of some firm of high position, and conse- quently above suspicion. Sardines are extremely nice eaten just as they are .with bread, the only additional accom- paniment required being a little lemon- juice and cayenne pepper. Sardines are now very commonly met with in restaurants and luncheon-bars served up on toast. In this form they, make a light but agreeable and digestible lun- cheon. Sardines are also extremely139 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. nice deviiled on toast hot. When this is done place the sardines on a plate in the oven, see that they are thoroughly well covered with oil, and sprinkle them over with a little cayenne and black pepper and salt. After they have been in the oven some three or four minutes they will, of course, be hot through, but owing to the oil they will not get dry. Next take some good toast, butter it thickly on both sides, and cut it into strips suffi- ciently wide to permit the sardine to be laid on it. Place the sardines on the toast, one on each strip, and serve at once. By this means the sardine will be hot before the toast has time to dry. Too often in serving sardines on toast the cook will make the toast before putting the sardines in the oven. When this is done, of course, by the time the sardines are cooked the toast will be cold. It is always best to warm the fish first, and then make the toast, and put the two when very hot together. An exceedingly nice dish, which is very well suited for breakfast or luncheon, can be made from a box of sardines by simply having a dish of sardines curried just as they arc. To do this take a box of sardines and pour off all the oil into a small frying-pan. Add to this a dessert-spoonful of curry powder, pre- viously mixed with a little cold water. Then thicken the oil with a little plain arrowroot which has first been mixed with cold water. Add the mixed arrow- root and curry powder to the oil in the frying-pan, and as soon as the curry and oil make a sauce about as thick as food melted butter the sauce is ready. 'our this over the sardines, which should be placed on a dish and kept sufficiently long in the oven for the sar- dines to get hot through. As soon as they are not through the dish of curry can be served. It is a great improve- ment, if a few bay-leaves are to be ob- tained, to mix four or five of them in the sauce in the frying-pan. This gives a pungency and richness which no other spice will do. Should you happen to have in the house a pot of Captain White’s curry-paste, it will be as well to add rather less of the curry-powder and to put in a good brimming teaspoonful of this curry-paste. This is a great im- provement. When no curry-paste is to be had it is sometimes an improvement to mix with the curry-sauce a small quantity of some kind of chutney, such as Bengal Club chutney. This chutney must, however, be added with great caution. Half a dessert-spoonful will be quite enough to flavour the amount of curry which has been manufactured from one box of sardines. Of course, when curry is liked hot, the cook can exercise her discretion as to adding an additional quantity of cayenne. A few chilies can be added and served up whole with the fish. They would only be suitable, however, to Indian palates. Plain boiled rice should always accom- pany every kind of curry. SARDINE K1TIVES.—See Knives. SAUCES, VARIOUS.—The number of sauces now to be obtained from grocers is almost infinite. They are generally sold in quarter-pint, half-pint, pint, and quart bottles. These very small bottles of sauce are a very great convenience to households consisting of very few per- sons. I will give a list of the principal sauces now to be obtained, a description for using the most important of which will be found under their various head- ings :—Mushroom Catsup, Walnut Cat- sup, Essence of Anchovies, Chutney Sauce, Beefsteak Sauce, Curry Sauce, Essence of Shrimps, Essence of Lobster, Emperor of China Sauce, Oyster Sauce, Gloucester Sauce, John Bull Sauce, Royal Table Sauce, Sauce Piquante, Sir Robert Peel’s Sauce, Soho Sauce, To- mato Sauce, Soyer’s Relish for Ladies, Soyer’s Relish for Gentlemen, Chutney Sauce, Curry Sauce (Captain White’s), Charles Cocks’s Reading Sauce, Creasy’s Brighton Sauce, Clarence’s Cayenne Sauce, Fouracres’ Severn Sauce, Hick- son’s King of Oude Sauce, Heard’s Camp Sauce, Kalos Gensis Sauce, Lemon Pickle Sauce, Lazenby’s Harvey Sauce,' Mogul or Chetna Sauce, Prince of Wales’s Salad Sauce, Payne’s Royal Osborne Sauce, Burgess’s Essence of Anchovies, Pillar and Co.’s Tomato Conserve, Parisian Essence, Casaripe, China Soy, Athenaeum, Lea and Perrin’s Worcester Sauce, etc. SAUSAGES.—There are a great variety of sausages now to be obtained. Sau- sages that may be termed fresh, their freshness being preserved by being kept in tins, and sausages dried like German sausages, are the most familiar. With regard to sausages preserved in tins,CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 140 this is a very convenient form of having sausages always ready and always fresh. The sausages are kept good in the tins, which are hermetically sealed ; and as they are surrounded with fat, of course they do not get dry. These sausages can be quickly made hot and served, or they can be eaten cold. German sausage is always a very appetising dish, and is sometimes served at the commencement of dinner by itself as an appetiser. It likewise forms an agreeable luncheon as well as breakfast dish. I would with confidence recommend these tins of sausages preserved in fat to the atten- tion of housekeepers. Ordinary German sausage is exceedingly difficult to keep good. Probably many housekeepers will know how often they have a diffi- culty either in preventing the sausages from getting mouldy on the one hand, or becoming perfectly dry and hard on the other. If the sausage is kept in a moist place it is apt to get mouldy, and if it is kept in a very dry and warm place it very soon gets so dry and hard as to be almost uneatable. Both these difficul- ties are avoided by obtaining the sau- sages in tins preserved in fat. Owing to the tins being air-tight, of course there is no chance of the sausages getting mouldy, and, owing to the presence of the fat which surrounds them, there is no chance of their becoming hard and dry. SAVORY AND MOORE’S INFANTS’ FOOD.—See Infants’ Food. SAVOURY PATES.—Savoury pates are now sold in tins, and of all the various kinds suited to the breakfast table I think these savoury pates are the nicest. The tin should be opened carefully, so that the patd will turn out whole. ‘When it is turned out the outside should be smoothed with a knife, and the dish surrounded with a little bright green parsley and some cut lemon. It is far better to turn these pates out of the tin at once than to eat them, as some do, from the tin itself. When it is eaten out of the tin it very soon gets into a “ smeary ” state, and looks very unin- viting. I would remind all good house- keepers of the importance of seeing that the remains of these savoury patds are never thrown away. Too often it will be seen that the fag ends of these little pates are abandoned by cooks as if they were of no use. They should, however, remember that the remains of them are exceedingly useful to assist in making all kinds of forcemeats—such as rissoles, lcromeskies, or rich fritters. With the assistance of a slice or two of any kind of liver—such as calves’ liver or the liver of fowls—the remains of slices of fried bacon, and the remains of one of these patds, an exceedingly delicious entric can be made for dinner. Place the liver, after slicing it up, in the frying-pan with some of the bacon, and fry with it a large slice of onion. When the liver is cooked rub the whole mixture through a wire sieve, and add to it the remains of the savoury pie. Also add about a saltspoonful of aro- matic flavouring herbs, a description of the way to make which mil be found under the heading of Gloves. These aromatic flavouring herbs can also be bought ready made under the name of “Herbaceous Mixture” (see Herba- ceous Mixture). The cook should now take a small piece of this forcemeat, formed by mixing the savoury patfi with liver and bacon, etc., about the size of a small picnic biscuit. It should be dipped into good stiff batter and thrown into some smoking-hot fat, fried, and served as a fritter. In making these fritters it will be found a great assistance to use up the fag-ends of any rich substance that may be left in the house—such as fat from pate. de foie gras, the liver of ducks, geese, turkeys, chickens, etc. When the frit- ters are liked hot with pepper, of course some cayenne should be added ; but, as a rule, in making fritters black pepper is the best. SAVOURY SALT.—See Salt. SEMOLINA.—Semolina is a very fine kind of wheat-flour, used for making light puddings. Semolina pudding is an extremely wholesome one for chil- dren, as it is very light and easy of digestion. It is also strongly recom- mended for invalids. The amount of semolina to be used varies from about two to three tablespoonfuls to a quart of milk. The pudding can be either baked or boiled, and can be unproved by the addition of eggs. A very rich pudding indeed can be made by adding three tablespoonfuls of semolina to a quart of milk, and putting in the yolks of six eggs. Another important point in mak- ing this pudding is the flavour. One ofHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 141 the nicest flavours for this kind of light semolina pudding is to place a pod or stick of vanilla, tied up in a piece of muslin, for a certain time in the milk. This imparts a better flavour than using essence of vanilla. Essence of vanilla, however, is very good, and when kept in stoppered bottles retains its flavour for a long time. A very simple way of flavouring semolina pudding is by using lemon-peel. Take a fresh, green-look- ing lemon and rub the outside of it with half a dozen or a dozen lumps of sugar. I would remind cooks and house- keepers, in flavouring any kind of pud- ding with lemon-peel, of the very great importance of the state of the lemon which they use. The most perfect state in which a lemon can be for flavouring purposes is when it is fresh and almost green. Most housekeepers will know there is a period, when lemons come into season, when the peel is thick and moist. They have at this period a slight verbena flavour about them. They are then admirably adapted for flavouring puddings in the way I have said— namely, nibbing sugar on the peel and then putting the sugar in the pudding. There is another state, however, into which a lemon is apt to get—when it has become dry, and the peel is only a thin yellow rim, about the thickness of a sheet of brown paper. When it is in this state it is of no use whatever for flavouring purposes, and the peel is quite unfit for making any kind of forcemeat—such as veal stuffing—and the slices of lemon will be unfit to use for flavouring claret cup. When it is in this state its only use is to squeeze the juice into a tumbler to be used for making lemonade. A very nice way of sending semolina pudding to table is to bake or boil the pudding in a dish, and when it is done turn the pudding out on to a plate and ornament the top with a few spoonfuls of apricot jam, greengage jam, and some bright-red jam—such as cherry jam or preserved cherries. A little jam can also be served round the base, and if care is taken to alternate the colours a very pretty effect can be produced, and, at the same time, a cheap, wholesome, and light pudding sent to table. SCISSOR-KNIVES.—See Knives. SHALOT VINEGAR,-See Vinegar. SHERBET, PERSIAN.—The very sound of the words “ Royal Persian Sherbet ” carries the mind of most persons back to the days of their early childhood. Although probably our tastes for seed cake, coupled with Persian sherbet, has somewhat changed, still housekeepers would do well to remember how very useful this Persian sherbet is through- out the length and breadth of the land. I have on several occasions, when speak- ing of syrups and fruit essences, called attention to the great importance of supplying the poorer classes, and more especially children, with some cheap substitute for intoxicating drink. Amongst the villages in England there will perhaps be many which have never yet even heard of pineapple syrup, red- currant syrup, etc., to be obtained at most large grocers in towns ; but in every little country village there will probably be that shop, so familiar to every child in the village, where in hot weather can be obtained a glass of royal Persian sherbet for a halfpenny. There are numbers of persons in the present day who, on philanthropic grounds, are urging the people to give up intoxicating drink of every description. They would do well to bear in mind how great an ally they have in this glass of sherbet. Probably most lads at the turning-point in life, when they are half boys and half men, commence drinking beer, not because they like it for its own sake, but because others do, and they think it looks manly ; but on many occasions, if they had their choice, they would prefer a glass of syrup and water. As it is, they must either drink beer or nothing at all. The teetotaller’s best friend on every village green throughout the country would be a bottle of sherbet— or, still better, of fruit essence, if it could be sold cheap—with a glass of cold water. It is this coolness that is the great difficulty. The publican who draws his beer from some deep and cool cellar knows by experience how many extra gallons of beer he will draw in the bar in hot weather if his house is noted for having the beer cool. It is no use to tempt people away from public-houses on hot days by offering them liquid almost tepid. At cricket matches, espe- cially in country villages, and all out- door recreations where persons congre- gate in large numbers, the teetotaller’s best ally is a lump of ice, in addition to142 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S some nice refreshing flavour. A glass of real iced sherbet is a formidable rival to a half-pint of beer. Persons of toler- ably good means can, of course, afford to have their drinks mixed with iced soda-water. This, however, is a luxury far beyond the reach of all the poorer classes. Sherbet, however, supplies its own effervescence ; all it wants to make it really acceptable is a lump of ice or a glass of iced water added to it. SHRIMPS, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of shrimps is a very valuable mixture, ex- ceedingly useful when fresh shrimps oannot be obtained for making shrimp sauce. Even when they can be ob- tained, the addition of a little essence of shrimps to shrimp sauce is a very great improvement, as it imparts colour as well as flavour. There are very many occasions, however, when shrimps can- not be obtained at all, and when a little shrimp sauce is required a very nice substitute can be made with the aid of essence of shrimps, to be eaten with turbot or boiled salmon or plaice. Let the cook make a very small quantity of really good butter sauce. This can only be done by being pretty generous with the butter. When a small quantity of this has been made—say, half or quarter of a pint—add a little essence of shrimps, and you have a very agreeable sauce, suitable to be served with every and any land of boiled fish. I would warn housekeepers, however, against making a larger quantity than is required. It is far better to have a little, and to have it good, than to have a whole tureen- ful of that which is too often thrown away. SHRIMP PASTE.—Shrimp paste is a very nice addition to the breakfast- table. It is very appetising and is a very nice dish to start with, when on a hot day the appetite seems to fail. Shrimp paste can also be used like anchovy paste to add an additional zest to sandwiches. Suppose you cut up sandwiches to be taken out for luncheon in the pocket. Cut up two or three hard-boiled eggs. Next cut some pieces of bread-and-butter, and then with a silver knife or ivory paper-knife spread some shrimp paste very lightly over the butter, adding a little pepper and a little salt. A steel knife should never be used for spreading paste of this de- scription. Next take the slices of eggs and place them between the bread-and- butter, press them closely together, and cut them into neat squares. In wrap- ping up sandwiches to be taken out for luncheon it is always best to have very small packets. It is far better to have three or four small packets than one large one, and clean white paper should always be used. Wrap them up together —a piece of brown paper can be used for the outside wrapper. In wrapping up sandwiches, avoid using printed paper, which will come into contact with the bread-and-butter and often imparts a nasty flavour, besides which it does not look nice when opened. Housekeepers would also do well to bear in mind, when they cannot ob- tain lobster butter, that shrimp paste, although not equal to it, supplies its place and is better than nothing. In fact it makes to a certain extent a sub- stitute. SIEGERT'S, DOCTOR, ANGOSTURA BITTERS.—See Angostura Bitters. SIR ROBERT PEEL’S SAUCE.—See Peel’s Sauce. SKINNER’S, COLONEL, CHUTNEY.— See Chutney. SKINNER’S MANGO RELISH.—See Mango Relish. SMITH’S CAMBRIAN ESSENCE.—See Cambrian Essence. SNIPE PATE', TRUFFLED.—A most delicious pat4 preserved in tins is now made from snipes with the assistance of forcemeat and truffles. These pates can be used for a variety of purposes, and are particularly valuable in summer when game itself is out of season. The pate can be opened by removing the strip of tin round the top, for which purpose patent openers are sold. The advantage of opening the tin in this way is that the pate can be turned out whole without breaking. These pates are specially suited for picnics, and when served in summer time at picnics they should always be placed for half an horn- or rather more in some iced water before they are opened. They are very nice when quite stone cold, but when they are partially heated by the sun or the warmth of a hot room they are not so good. They are very rich and go a long way. The re-143 HOUSEKEEPERS GUIDE. mains of these pates should never bo thrown away on any account, as the cook will find them exceedingly valuable to assist her in making any kind of forcemeat. Under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham Pate ” I have al- ready given descriptions how to make rissoles and kromeslcies. In making either of these dishes the cook will find that the remains of snipe pate truffled will be particularly valuable to increase the delicacy of flavour of the forcemeat; indeed all kinds of these truffled pates are very useful, as they impart a de- cided truffle flavour to the forcemeat, and are of course very much cheaper than having to purchase a bottle of truffles themselves. Another very use- ful account to which the remains of these patds can be turned is for mak- ing Italian fritters. A full receipt of how to make Italian fritters will be found under the heading Foie Gras. In every kind of savoury pate when game is used the remains of the pates are perhaps more suited for making Italian fritters than for mixing with ordinary meat. When, however, ris- soles or kromeskies are made from the remains' of chicken-and-ham the addi- tion of game is very good. SNIPES, TRUFFLED.—Snipes are now sold whole in tins stuffed with truffles. They are very nice eaten just as they are, cold, when they form a very agreeable breakfast-dish. In summer, when game is out of season, a very deli- cious entree can be made from snipes truffled, or they can be served up as a course by themselves instead of game. Part of the forcemeat can be placed in little paper cups, and portions of the snipe itself can be placed on the top. Another very nice form of serving snipes truffled, when they are preserved whole, is to take the birds out of the fat by which they are surrounded, bearing in mind that this fat is very valuable for assisting the cook to make any kind of rich forcemeat. Then the birds should be placed in a circle on a silver dish and flazed over the entire of their surface. f the birds are inclined to fall to pieces this glaze will often enable the cook to keep them together, as it acts as a species of glue. Any kind of salad can now be placed in the centre of the dish, such as German salad made from a tin of macedoines, and the birds themselves can be surrounded on the outside with aspic jelly. This makes a very rich and excellent dish suitable to be served at ball suppers. Of course the birds can be further decorated by a little piping on the breast of each. SOHO SAUCE.—Soho sauce is a very nice and delicious sauce, sold in bottles containing half-pints, pints, and quarts. It is very nice when eaten as a relish to cold meat, but it is better adapted to be served with hot meats, such as chops and steaks. It is also very useful for giving a tone to stews and hashes. The cook, of course, will exercise her discretion, and not put in too much. Soho sauce is also served with fish, both fried and boiled. With fried fish it is very nice served plain by itself, and with boiled fish a little added to the melted butter gives it an agreeable relish. SOISSON’S HARICOT BEANS. — See Haricot Beans. SOLUBLE CAYENNE PEPPER.—See Cayenne Pepper. SOUPS, VARIOUS. —A very large number of soups are now sold ready made in tins. Housekeepers should re- member that palates are apt to differ, and that the majority of ready-made soups possess one good quality—namely, no one flavour particularly predomi- nates. I would, however, remind them that with a little ingenuity any one flavour that is liked can be imparted to these tinned soups after they have been opened. For instance, the majority of thick soups will bear the addition of a little extract of meat, a little brown roux or brown thickening, and half a glass of wine. On the other hand, nearly all clear soups will bear the addi- tion of a little of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat, but wine should be added to clear soup \yith considerable caution. Should the soup be clear and nearly devoid of colour, a little sherry or madeira can be put in, but when the clear soup is of the nature of julienne no wine whatever should be added. An- other improvement to all these soups is, of course, the addition of a little pepper. Pepper is easily added, but it is impos- sible to be extracted. The majority of these soups are consequently easily adapted to suit the tastes of all indivi- duals. The cook should, however, taste144 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL’S the soup, and she will soon discover whether a little additional pepper is re- quired or not. This, of course, depends on the tastes of those persons for whom she daily cooks. The following soups are now to be obtained in tins, and of nearly all the principal ones descriptions of the best way to use them will be found under their respective headings:—Real turtle soup, game soup, grouse soup, hare soup, thick soup, hodge-podge, kidney soup, mulligatawny soup, mock turtle soup, ox-cheek soup, ox-tail soup, chicken soup, tomato soup, venison soup, Cressy soup, gravy soup, green- pea soup, julienne soup, mutton broth, Palestine soup, vegetable soup, vermi- celli soup, etc. SOY.—Soy is a sauce which I think it is to be regretted is not more often used in this country. It is a very thick, rich fluid, somewhat resembling treacle in appearance, and is made from a bean which grows in Japan. Soy is also very useful to be used as a temporary glaze. For instance, in sending up a dish of fish to table, such as sole au gratin, a few of the best mushrooms should be kept out for ornamenting the dish, and by brushing over these mushrooms with a little soy it instantly gives them that nice appearance resembling a freshly-polished mahogany table. I am aware that many persons object to the flavour of soy. I would, however, re- commend those who have not tried it, to give soy a trial. So far as my own ex- perience goes, I think it exceedingly nice, especially when mixed with a little melted butter, mushroom catsup, and cayenne pepper. SOYER’S AROMATIC MUSTARD.— See Mustard. SOYER’S RELISH, SOYER’S SAUCE FOR GENTLEMEN, SOYER’S SAUCE FOR LADIES,, SOYER’S SULTANA SAUCE.—Soyer ’was a famous cook, and he has given his name to a variety of dishes, not the least important of which are the celebrated sauces bearing his name, sold in bottles. These sauces can now be obtained under the various headings given above ; and as M. Soyer is probably the best judge of the method of using his own sauces, I will give his directions. In his book on cookery, in the Introduction to “Sauces,” he quotes a remark made by Talleyrand, that the English nation, though they had 120 different religions, had only one sauce, and that was melted butter. Soyer then proceeds to describe how the so- called melted butter might be made the base of a vast variety of other sauces. His so-called Soyer’s relish, which can be obtained in bottles, he recommends should be added to some melted butter, which will then form a very nice sauce to be served with various kinds of fish, etc. The same may be said of liis sauce for ladies and gentlemen, the probable difference being that gentlemen are sup- posed to be capable of talcing a rather larger amount of cayenne pepper than the other sex. In using Soyer’s sauce for gentlemen it will perhaps be best to give his own directions, which are printed on the label of the bottle, under the heading, “ How to use Soyer’s Sauce to the best advantage.” He states : “For any kind of cold meat, game, and poul- try, use it in moderation as it is. For mutton, lamb, pork, and steaks, when properly boiled and seasoned, pour one tablespoonful or more, according to the quantity of meat, which you turn over in the dish with a fork several times, then you will have a most excellent gravy. In any sort of hash it is a very great improvement. For made dishes or entrees put four tablespoonfuls of brown sauce to six of broth, and when quite hot add two tablespoonfuls of Soyer’s sauce ; just broil it, and pour over your entrees. For general pur- poses put eight tablespoonfuls of water into a stewpan ; when boiling, add four ditto of the sauce, half an ounce of fresh butter mixed with a quarter of an ounce of flour, stir quickly on the fire, add if required a little salt, boil one minute, and pour over your dish of meat, game, or poultry.” M. Soyer, who holds such a high place in cookery, has given some admirable directions how to make things taste nice. I remember very many years ago his telling me what a great improvement it was, in roasting a good- sized fowl, to proceed as follows : Take a large onion, cover it with butter, sprinkle it with cayenne pepper and salt, as well as a little black pepper. Place this onion inside the fowl, and if the fowl is cut, sew up the opening. Now roast the fowl in the ordinary way. As the fowl roasts the butter melts, and gets impregnated with the flavour of the onion, as well as with pepper, etc. ThisHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 145 way of treating the onion gradually causes it to impregnate the meat, and 1 must say Soyer’s direction is well worth bearing in mind. This is a very nice method of treating a good-sized fowl, but I would not recommend it in the case of delicate spring chickens. An- other of Soyer’s very simple receipts is for making ‘‘devilled toast.” He says : “ Toast a round of bread, cut quite an inch thick ; mix in the butter half a tea- spoonful of cayenne, one teaspoonful of mustard, and one of relish or sauce. Spread it over the toast and serve very hot.” I may here add that, though Soyer probably refers to his own relish and sauce, the majority of sauces sold do admirably for the purpose, and I can particularly recommend Worcester sauce. SPANISH OLIVES.—See Olives. SPARGHETTI.—Sparghetti is a well- known dish in Italy, in which country it precedes dinner, and takes the part of the suet dumpling given to schools be- fore meat in the good old days. Spar- ghetti is not much known or appreciated in this country. The ordinary pipe macaroni is generally used for making it. There is, however, a certain kind of Italian paste sold, which is perhaps more suited for making sparghetti than any other kind. In any case English housekeepers would do well to study how far it is desirable in large house- holds, especially where there are chil- dren, to have a large dish of sparghetti, or rice, cooked in the Italian fashion, known as “rissotto,” before the meat. It is to be regretted that sparghetti is not more commonly used in this country, eaten instead of fish, when fish cannot be obtained. The subject of fish as an article of every-day food is now daily becoming more and more one of interest Considering how important a part it will play in the future welfare of the country, it is to be trusted that the subject will never be allowed to drop. I would more especially speak with respect to the importance of mak- ing fresh-water fish an article of food, and bringing it generally under protective laws similar to those Which regulate salmon-fishing, etc. Sparghetti is an exceedingly cheap dish. It can, as a rule, be bought at about sixpence a pound ; and when a pound of sparghetti has been cooked, unlike meat, instead of losing in weight it weighs more. In many parts of the country, when tomatoes are ripe and plentiful, an exceedingly nice and very cheap dish can be made with the aid of sparghetti. In making a dish- of it proceed as follows f Boil the sparghetti carefully in some plain water till it is tender. Now take it out, place it on a dish,, add to it some pepper and salt, and a good brimming tablespoonful of conserve of tomato or tomato sauce, or some fresh tomatoes that have been baked in the oven with a little butter. Now shake over the whole some grated cheese. If Parmesan cheese can be obtained, all the better, but this is a very nice way of using up what are sometimes called heels of old cheese— that is, pieces next to the rind. Serve the dish thoroughly hot, and take care that the cheese is added while the maca- roni is very hot, in order that the cheese itself may melt. When tossed lightly together the melted cheese should have a sort of cobwebby appearance, and look like threads when part of the sparghetti is lifted up in the air. A dish of this description served to families before, and not after, the roast leg of mutton, will, like fish, be a very great saving indeed, and will also have a very con- siderable effect on the weekly butcher’s bill. SPICES, VARIOUS.—When ground spices are used in the kitchen, it will, I trunk, be found more economical to buy them ready ground than to grind them at home. One difficulty in getting home-ground spices is that the mill used for grinding them requires such an enormous amount of cleansing before anything else can be ground in it. Cases have been too often known when the coffee-mill has been used for grind- ing spices, the effect of which has been to give a decided taste to the coffee afterwards ground in the mill, which perhaps had been used for grinding mace or Jamaica ginger. Those who have tasted it will know what I mean. The following spices, of which a de- scription will be found under their respective headings, are now sold ready ground :—Cinnamon, nutmegs, mace, cloves, ginger, mixed spice, black and white pepper. STRASBURG PIES.—Strasburg pies can now be obtained preserved in tins, LBLACKWELL'S 146 CROSSE AND or rather terrines. These pies are very rich and very nice, and a little goes a long way. They have for very many years been considered a great delicacy, though, of course, their distinctive flavour is owing to the peculiar treat- ment to which the unfortunate geese are subjected during the latter part of their unhappy lives. These tins should not be opened till they are wanted. They are admirable for occasions such as picnics, etc. It will always be best before opening them to place them for half an hour in a little water in which a large lump of ice has been placed. By this means the rich fat by which the pie is surrounded is made harder and more eatable. When the pie has been exposed open to the heat of the sun, or even in a hot room, it becomes far less appetising than when in a cool state. Cooks would do very well to bear in mind how very important it is to guard against any of the remains of these pies being wasted, because these will assist them very considerably in making almost every kind of rich forcemeat. Under the heading of “ Chick e n-and -Ham Pate ” I have already given directions as to how to make kromeskies and ris- soles, and under the heading of “ Pate de Foie Gras” I have given descrip- tions of the way to make Italian fritters, a very nice and at the same time very cheap dish. These Strasburg pies are equally useful to assist in making any of these three dishes. Of course, as they contain truffle, they are far more suited to be mixed with the meat and chicken or any kind of poultry than with beef or mutton. A most delicious forcemeat can be made from the re- mains of these Strasburg pies, with the assistance of scraps of cold roast fowl, and some pieces of ham. Of course a few mushrooms would be a still greater improvement. STRAWBERRIES, CRYSTALLISED.— Crystallised strawberries are one of the most delicious forms of crystallised fruits. Owing to their beautiful taste and colour they are an admirable addition to any kind of dish of crys- tallised fruits, and owing to their size they are very useful in decorating the. dish, as they will fit into holes and cor- ners between the piled-up fruit of larger size. In serving a dish of crystallised fruits it is generally best for the colour green to predominate, and to be placed round the base. STRAWBERRIES IN SYRUP.—Straw- berries can now be obtained preserved in syrup, and make an extremely nice dish when served by themselves. The bottle has simply to be opened and the strawberries carefully placed in a dish with the syrup, taking as much care as possible not to break up the fruit in turning it out. A very nice addition to this dish is to cover the top with some whipped cream. When the dish of fruit has been covered with cream the cream itself can be orna- mented by sprinkling over the top a little coloured sugar or a spoonful of those well-known sweets called by chil- dren hundreds and thousands. But it should not be put on the top of the whipped cream till just before the dish is sent to table. The sugar and sweet- meats have, of course, a tendency to sink into the cream, and thus give the whipped cream the appearance rather of lialf-melted snow than the clear white froth which it should be. Devon- shire cream, which can now be obtained in many towns preserved in small jars, is also exceedingly nice with straw- berries in syrup. In this case I think as a rule it is better to hand the cream in the jar itself than to turn I it out on to the dish. Where cream itself cannot be obtained a very nice substitute can be made by dissolving sufficient Swiss milk in ordinary milk to make the whole of the consistency of cream, and as the Swiss milk is sweet no sugar need be added. STRAWBERRY JAM. — Strawberry jam is perhaps one of the most popular of all jams. Unfortunately, it cannot always be obtained. When there is a good year in the strawberry-grounds jam is generally made in sufficient quantities to last the country till strawberries come again. But in many years it is found that little or no jam can be made, owing to the scarcity of the straw- berries. It can be used for almost every purpose for which jams generally are used. It can, of course, be used for making open tarts, either large or small. Strawberry jam is also very good for making various kinds of puddings, such as bread-and-butter pudding, in which the jam is smeared upon the slices of bread-and-butter and the dish thenHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 147 filled up with custard and baked in the oven till the custard is set. Strawberry jam is also very good for making both tipsy-cake and trifle. In the case of making trifle the jam can be spread over slices of stale sponge-cake, or, better still, brioche-cake. One very nice pur- pose indeed for which strawberry jam can be used is that of making ices when some rough ice can be obtained. Now that freezing-machines are sold so extremely cheap, ices are by no means an expensive luxury. We ought to remember that the penny ices as sold in the streets in hot weather are by no means bad, and yet the men can affoi'd to make and sell them at this price, getting a living out of the profit. When persons in country places j are possessed of gardens, and are conse- quently able to obtain fresh fruit, it is to be regretted that these very deli- cious additions to every-day comfort in the way of food are not more often used. When fresh fruit is not in season, almost equally good ices can be made from jam. Take, say a quarter of a pound of jam, and mix it well with half a pint of cream. Of course the jam contains sufficient sugar to obviate the necessity of any more being added. When the whole has been well mixed together, all it requires is to be frozen, and the ice is then ready to be served. Unfortunately, cream is an expensive luxury, and in many cases cannot be ob- tained at all. When this is the case an excellent substitute can be made by mixing, say half a pint of milk, two yolks of eggs, and a tablespoonful of Swiss milk. When this mixture is used for making vanilla ice, by adding the flavour of vanilla, it will require a little more sugar. When, however, it is used for making cream-ice or any kind of fruit or jam-ice, no sugar need be added. A distinction must be made between making ice from jam and pre- served fruit. Strawberry jam contains about three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. In making ice from apricots preserved in tins there will be a far less amount of sugar used. Consequently, the cook must taste the mixture before freezing, and add sugar accordingly. STRAWBERRY SYRUP.—Strawberry syrup forms a most refreshing drink on a hot day. It is best when mixed with a little iced soda-water or iced water of any kind. It is perhaps somewhat sickly, and it does not do to mix the syrup too strong. Strawberry syrup is also very nice, when mixed with a little water, served up on a dish with some cold rice. This dish is especially suited for children, and housekeepers should always use up each day the remains of any cold rice that may have been served with curry or mulligatawny soup. A little syrup or juice forms a wholesome and cheap dish which can be served up for children’s tea. SWISS ABSINTHE.—See Absinthe. SWISS KIRSCHENWASSER. — See Kirschenwassek. SWISS MILK.—See Milk. SYRUPS, VARIOUS.—Under their re- spective headings will be found full descriptions of the various uses of the following syrups : Lemon Syrup, Apri- cot Syrup, Black-Currant Syrup, Cherry Syrup, Capillaire Syrup, Gooseberry Syrup, Lime Syrup, Grange Syrup, Pineapple Syrup, Raspberry Syrup, Red-Currant Syrup, Strawberry Syrup. These syrups are undoubtedly coming daily more into demand. Perhaps one great cause is that they, of late years, have been sold as a precaution against the undue consumption of intoxicating liquor. There is no doubt that a great deal of the evil in this country springs from excess in taking stimulants. The remedy is I believe to be found not so much in interfering with those whose habits are confirmed as to prevent it spreading to the rising generation. There can be no doubt that hundreds and thousands of persons, especially among the poor, have gradually fallen into the habit of drinking intoxicants, simply because they have had no other choice. What is wanted chiefly is to supply not only a nice but a cheap sub- stitute for the ordinary pint of beer. Lemonade and soda-water, and even ginger beer, are, as a rule, especially in public-houses as well as good hotels, sold at a price which places them beyond the reach of the poor man. How many lads are there who would infinitely’ prefer a glass of pineapple syrup and water to half a pint of ale, if they could only get it ? Should the various teetotal bodies wish to succeed in their endea- vours I do not know of any better courseCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S 148 than for them to endeavour to make every grocer’s shop throughout the kingdom a rival to the public-house. Were it possible for thirsty persons to obtain at every grocer’s a glass of syrup for a penny, or even a halfpenny, which is the price at which in many places a glass of sherbet can be obtained, more would be done to check the sale of in- toxicating drink than all the bombastic talk, which too often checks the move- ment rather than advances it. SYRUP, FRUITS IN.—The following fruits are now to be obtained in syrups, and a full description of their various uses will be found under their respective headings. Apricots, peaches, pine- apples, currants, cherries, greengages, plums, pears, strawberries, raspberries, West Indian limes, mixed fruits, apri- cots in noyeau or brandy, greengages in noyeau or brandy, mixed fruits in noyeau, compote of mixed fruits in jelly, brandy cherries, and pineapples whole. ABLE SALT.—See Salt. TAMARINDS, WEST IN- DIAN. — Tamarinds are a well-known West Indian fruit, sent over to this country in large cases preserved in syrup. The flavour is slightly acid. They were probably more in vogue years ago than they are now, owing to the fact of their having so many rivals in the shape of fresh preserved fruit in tins, such as apricots, etc. Tamarinds are packed in casks, syrup is poured over them, the casks are carefully secured, and they are sent over to this country in bulk. They were a favourite sweet in schools some fifty years back. Probably middle-aged and elderly men will call to mind the jar of tamarinds in their school days more readily than boys of the present day. Tamarinds are sold in jars and bottles. A very nice and deliciously cool drink can be made by mixing some of the syrup in which they are preserved with a little cold water. This syrup is particularly refreshing in hot weather, and has often been recommended as a cooling drink in cases of colds and sore throats. TARRAGON VINEGAR. — Tarragon vinegar is really vinegar flavoured with tarragon. It would be perhaps well to warn housekeepers that tne strength of flavour of tarragon is such that it must be used with extreme caution. It is so strong as to be quite overpowering. In many cases home-made tarragon vinegar is far too strong for any purpose what- ever unless diluted with a large quantity of plain vinegar. I have known cases where cooks have pickled nearly a bottleful of tarragon leaves, and filled the bottle up with vinegar, the result being such an exceedingly powerful flavour that it could scarcely be used at all. M. Francatelli, in his cookery book, gives certain receipts, and men- tions the quantities in which vinegar, such as tarragon, are used ; but then he always refers to a certain known stan- dard of quality, namely, that sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell, of Soho Square. In his receipt for making white ravigotte sauce he particularly refers to their tarragon vinegar in a note. Were a similar quantity of home- made vinegar used there is no knowing what the result might be. White ravi- gotte sauce is made by boiling two table- spoonfuls of chili vinegar, tarragon vinegar, and Harvey sauce in a stew- pan, and reducing them by boiling to half the quantity, or even less. A small ladleful of good bechamel sauce is then added, and the sauce is finished by mix- ing with it a little fresh butter and a tablespoonful of chopped blanched parsley. Tarragon vinegar is particu- larly suitable for most kinds of fish sauce. I am not myself partial to the flavour of tarragon with meat; perhaps an exception being that of chicken, which wo sometimes get served abroad, called ponlet Vcstrcr/on. This is simply roast fowl, sent to table with the breast covered with whole leaves of tarragon stuck on the outside. The tarragon itself is, I think, too strong to be treated this way. The flavour is best when a very small quantity of fresh tarragon can be obtained, and is used with some rich white sauce, and served with fish. A very nice use for the flavour of tarragon, however, is, if the cook will only act with moderation, in making spring soup. Four or five leaves of tarragon can be taken from the garden, washed for a minute with some warm water, and then cut into as thin strips as possible. The fresh tarra- gon thrown into the soup gives it a zest.HOUSEKEEPER'Si GUIDE. 149 Even these few leaves, if boiled in the soup for any length of time, would cause the flavour of tarragon to pre- dominate over every other flavour. Tarragon vinegar is used to flavour that well-known sauce called Sauce Hol- landaise. It is also used in making Venetian sauce. Indeed, Venetian sauce contains a very strong flavour of tarragon, and is made as follows A spoonful of tarragon leaves are cut into diamond shape and blanched green— that is, thrown into boiling water in order to preserve their colour. A bit of butter, a little nutmeg, a spoonful of tarragon vinegar, are thrown into some good strong Dutch sauce, and the sauce is served as soon as it is hot. Tarragon vinegar is also useful in flavouring what may be called cold sauce, such as the well-known sauce called Cambridge Sauce, and another called Remoulade Sauce, and also Tartar Sauce. All these sauces are served either with cold meat, such as chicken or turkey, or with hot grilled fish, such as grilled salmon, fried eels, etc. The flavour of tarragon is always an improvement, and fresh tarragon leaves, chopped fine, are used to finish off an ordinary salad d la Franraisc. A good Drench salad is made by simply first rubbing the salad bowl with a bead of gax-lic, then throw- ing in some dried fresh lettuce-leaves, and sprinkling a little chopped tarragon over the whole, dressing the salad with plenty of oil, a little vinegar, pepper, and salt. There is one more sauce 1 will mention in which tarragon vinegar is used, namely, cold poivrade sauce. Put a good spoonful of ordinary brown sauce into a basin, add to it four table- spoonfuls of salad oil, one of chili vinegar, and a little taiTagon vinegar, pepper, and salt. Work the whole together with a whisk, and then add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a little chalot. This sauce is good with boiled artichokes, and is also served with brawn. When served with brawn a little sugar is often added to it. The most common use of tarragon vinegar in this country in many households is to use it instead of ordinary vinegar in dressing salads. This imparts the fla- vour of tarragon when fresh tarragon- leaves cannot be obtained. THYME, ESSENCE OF.—Essence of thyme is very useful for imparting the flavour of thyme when fresh thyme can- not be obtained. Like all other essences, it must be used with very great caution, three or four drops being, as a rale, suffi- cient to flavour a pint of fluid. When the flavour of thyme is wanted to be added to any semi-solid substance the essence should be first well mixed with a little butter or fluid, otherwise the effect will be that one part will be more strongly flavoured than another. TIRRHOOT CHUTNEY.—See Chut- ney. TOMATO CONSERVE.—Tomato con- serve is probably the most useful form in which tomatoes can be obtained. It is simply the pure pulp of tomatoes, without the addition of any other fla- vour whatever. Of course, the most common purpose for which tomato con- serve is used is to make ordinary tomato sauce. This is made by boiling some of the conserve of tomato in a stewpan, with a little raw ham cut into small pieces, one or two chilies, a couple of bay-leaves, and a little thyme. These should first be fried with a little butter till brown, and then the tomato con- serve is added to them, and the whole rubbed through a wire sieve. This sauce can be slightly diluted by adding good white sauce or a little white veal stock, or, in fact, any kind of uncoloured stock. Care should be taken in using thyme not to put in too much. When fresh thyme is used still greater pre- caution must be taken. The sauce when made should be allowed to stand by the fire and simmer gently for a shox-t time in order that it may clear itself from fat. Tomato sauce is a genex-al favourite, and can be served with chops, steaks, cutlets, etc. Indeed, its uses are so well knowxx, and its wholesomeness so universally admitted, that it is scarcely necessary Sor me to refer to every dish which is improved by the addition of it. There is One per- haps that deserves particular attention, and that is turtle sauce. A very nice and popular dish is known as tete da vcau en tortue—or, in other words, calf’s head dx’essed turtle fashion. In pi’ivate houses this is a vei'y common dish to follow the second day to plain boiled calf’s head. With a sharp knife cut off all of what may be known as the horixy part round the ear, keep- ing as much of the horn round the ear asiso CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S possible. Trim the ear so that it will stand upright in the dish. Next take some of the stock in which the calf’s head was boiled, which, of course, should have been flavoured with the usual vegetables—onions, celery, etc. Add a brimming spoonful of mixed sweet herbs. Reduce it by boiling till three pints have been reduced to rather less than one. Strain off the mixed herbs. Thicken this with some brown roux, and add to it a small tin of button mushrooms. If you can afford it, another very great improvement is a small bottle of black truffles. Next add to this a good tablespoonful of tomato conserve and a good glass of madeira ; or, if madeira is not at hand, sherry is a very good substitute; but if possible use coloured sherry, and not thin, pale sherry, which is by no means adapted for cooking. Take care that the sauce is free from grease. The calf’s head should be boiled in the sauce till it is quite tender. Of course, the upper part of the ear, which cannot be eaten, will appear above the dish. This should be brushed over with a little colour, so as to give it a rich, bright mahogany colour. Next take a stewnan containing some very hot fat, which should be at least four inches in depth. Then break four or five eggs carefully in a cup and drop them into this smoking-hot fat. Fried eggs to be served with this dish should be sent to table resembling in appearance and colour little round brown balls. This can only be done when the eggs fry equally all round at the same time. A few fried crofttons of bread should be placed between the fried eggs. This dish, which is an extremely delicious one, and, not counting the truffles, by no means very expensive, should be ornamented now with a few little red crayfish. The dish is, of course, some- what rich. A very nice and suitable dish for an invalid is made by simply wanning up a piece of the horny part of a calf’s head in a little plain tomato sauce. This is very delicate and appe- tising. TOMATO SAUCE. — Tomato sauce differs from conserve of tomato, inas- much as certain spices, vinegar, etc., have been added to it to make it ready for use. It possesses this slight advan- tage over conserve of tomato, that when opened it will keep much longer. The drawback to conserve of tomato is that when once opened it must be finished up almost directly. It will not keep good more than one or two days at the outside. On the, other hand, tomato sauce, owing to the different ingredients that have been mixed with the tomato itself, will keep good for some time. Tomato sauce is very nice when eaten cold, simply poured out of the bottle just as it is, with a little cold meat. It can also be used for all the purposes I have mentioned under the heading of “Tomato Conserve” (seeTomato Con- serve). TOMATOES WHOLE IN TINS.—Toma- toes can now be obtained whole in tins, and in England are far superior to fresh ones, unless, owing to a very exceptional state of the weather, they can be gathered and sent to table quite ripe. Like pineapples, the ma- jority of tomatoes sent to this country are picked in an unripe state, other- wise they would all fall to pieces long before they could be retailed in our markets. Tinned tomatoes have this advantage, that they have been allowed to ripen according to nature in the sun. The fruit, if it is picked in an unripe state and allowed to ripen after, gets partially rotten at the same time that it ripens. This is particularly notice- able in the case of pineapples. Tinned tomatoes are exceedingly nice served as they are. Open the tin and take the tomatoes out as carefully as possible without breaking them up, and put them in the oven, with pepper, salt, and butter, sufficiently long to make them hot through, occasionally basting them with their own juice ; then serve them plain. A still more delicate way of cooking them is with the assist- ance of a few mushrooms, either tinned or fresh. Open first of all a tin of tomatoes whole and care- fully remove the pips from the in- side. Now take a handful of mush- rooms or a small tin. If fresh mush- rooms are used, of course they must be carefully peeled. Chop them up with a piece of onion about as big as the thumb down to the first joint, and a good brimming teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Place them in a frying-pan with sufficient scraped bacon fat, scraped from cold boiled bacon, to cookHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 151 them till they are a nice pulp. A little pepper and salt may be added. Wien they are sufficiently cooked and the whole becomes a moist pulp, fill each tomato with this mixture, getting as much of it into the tomatoes as possi- ble. When the forcemeat is put in place the tomatoes in a tin with some butter in the oven, and let them' be there sufficiently long to get hot through. Owing to the forcemeat hav- ing been put in warm this will not be long. If the oven is a good one, ten minutes or a quarter of an hour will be ample time. Now take them out with a large flat spoon similar to that used for fried eggs, put them on a dish, and serve. A little rich brown gravy can be poured round tlje base, or they can be served plain as they are. This is an exceedingly delicious dish. To- matoes in tins preserved whole make most excellent salad. Remove the pips and juice and simply cut them up into small pieces. Mix them in a salad bowl in the ordinary way with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. This is a very cooling dish in hot weather. Another very delicious dish is tomato sandwiches. Cut some very thin white bread-and-butter. Sprinkle over each piece of bread a little fresh mustard and cress, pepper and salt. Now cut the tomatoes into thin slices and lay be- tween two pieces of bread-and-butter ; press them together gently, and with a very sharp knife trim off the edges and cut into small squares. At garden parties, ball suppers, etc., these sand- wiches are most delicious, especially if they are placed for an hour or so in a re- frigerator. The delicious coolness of tomatoes in conjunction with the ice makes_ it one of the most refreshing sandwiches ever served. TONGUES, VARIOUS.—Tongues may be divided into three distinct classes— those that can be obtained ready cooked preserved in tins ; the tongue just as it is, that can be taken from the pickle tub; and the dried tongue, such as reindeer tongue. With regard to the latter of these three, the great drawback to reindeer tongue is the dreadful trouble it gives you in cooking it. I am almost afraid to say how long it takes to soak reindeer tongue before it can be boiled, but as a rule it requires a week—at least such is my experience. With re- gard to the pickled tongue fresh from the pickle tub, this is a question for the butcher to decide rather than the grocer, though the latter often supplies tongues. The cooking of these tongues to a cer- tain extent depends on the length of time they have been in pickle. Like many other things, time should be the happy medium. When kept too long in pickle they are very red, very hard and indigestible. If not kept long enough in pickle, when cooked they will have a beefy rather than a tonguey look. As soon as the tongue has been kept long enough in the pickle to look red through when cut in the thick part it should be cooked immediately. This is only found out by experience. Of course the tongue should be soaked in fresh water before it is boiled. One of the most convenient forms of tinned goods is what may be termed the modern breakfast tongue. When you have ob- tained a tinned tongue, the first thing to bear in mind is the importance of tinn- ing it out neatly. As I have said under the heading ‘1 Knives,” the scissor- knife is the best for opening nearly everything. When the tin has been opened one side, the whole of which is cut off, do not be too violent in trying to turn it out. Recollect also to make some air-holes in^he other side before you turn it out, otherwise it will be apt to break. If the tin has been cut off really neatly round the edge on one side, it is sometimes a good plan to cut off the other side as well, and then push the tongue gently out. When the ton- gue has been turned out neatly it looks far best when surrounded by a paper frill. Another important thing is to brush the top of the tongue over with a little glaze. In many shops throughout the country you will see tongues pre- served in tins, and apparently fresh ones surrounded by a frill that have been glazed over. The only difference between these two is that both alike have been tinned tongues in their day, but that you have been saved a little trouble in having this one opened for you. Whether the trouble is worth the difference in price is a question for the housekeeper herself to decide. In serv- ing tongue remember that in cutting it it will require a verysharp knife. Tongue always tastes best when cut thin ; in addition to which, if you attempt to cut it with a blunt knife it will often fray,152 CROSSE AND and when it frays it looks very unin- viting. Tongues, after being surrounded by a paper frilj, can also be ornamented with a little parsley and a little aspic jolly. TOUS LES MOIS.—See Arrowroot. TRAPPISTINE.—Trappistine is a well- known and delicate liqueur very much resembling chartreuse both in colour and appearance. Like chartreuse, there is green and yellow trappistine. Trap- pistine is popular served by itself. It can also be used for making jelly. In making trappistine jelly, proceed ex- actly as in making chartreuse jelly (see Chartreuse). TRUFFLED PATES. — Directions for using the'following truffled pates will be found under their respective headings: Larks truffled, woodcocks truffled, snipe truffled, quails truffled, partridges truf- fled, plovers truffled, etc. TRUFFLED BIRDS.—A description of the following birds preserved in tins with truffles will be found under the several headings : Woodcocks truffled, larks truffled, snipes truffled, plovers truffled, partridges truffled, quails truffled. TRUFFLED SAUSAGE.—Truffled sau- sage varies from thi» ordinary kind of chicken-and-ham sausage usually sold, owing to the fact that it contains a cer- tain amount of truffle. It is somewhat rich, has an agreeable taste, and is consequently a great delicacy at the breakfast-table. TRUFFLES.—Truffles are literally a species of underground mushrooms. The taste for them is said to be an acquired one, but I think as a rule it will be found that the taste has already been pretty generally acquired. Truf- fles, like mushrooms, are used to impart a rich and peculiar flavour to various kinds of disnes and forcemeats. The drawback to them is that they are ex- tremely expensive. Their fine colour renders them a handsome garnish to various kinds of dishes. Truffles can now be bought in small bottles, called quarter-bottles, half-bottles, and full bottles. Fortunately a small quantity of truffles will go a great way, and in ornamenting various kinds of dishes a good cook will know how very great an extent of surface may be ornamented BLACKWELL'S with a single good-sized truffle, owing to its being able to be cut up into thin slices. The black truffle is extremely useful in ornamenting in conjunction with red ham on a white surface. For. instance, suppose we take the case of an ordinary boiled turkey which has been stuffed with truffle forcemeat, a very nice garnish can be made as follows : A rich white bechamel sauce should be poured over the breast, and some small black specks of truffle scattered upon it, with some finely-chopped pieces of red tongue and a little chopped green parsley. Round the base of the tur- key, on the dish, should be placed a garnish made as follows : Take a dozen cock’s-combs, and having boiled them tender, if they are not bottled, mask them over with white bechamel sauce and place them round the base of the turkey alternately with some slices of red boiled tongue cut out the same shape as the eock’s-comb. Some black truffle can be placed at the base of each cock’s-comb, and some small specks of black truffle placed round the edge, so as to form a sort of eye to the frill. This forms a very handsome garnish. Truffles are the base of all sauces and flavours known under the name of “ Perigueux.” One of the most highly- appreciated sauces known is Perigueux sauce. M. Francatelli, who was for- merly chef at the Reform Club and Freemasons’ Tavern, states in his receipt that the best truffles are to be obtained in bottles, and recommends the follow- ing method of making it:—Chop six or eight truffles extremely fine ; put them in a stewpan with two glasses of white wine, a little lean ham and some thyme, and a bay-leaf. Set them to boil gently on a stove fire for a few minutes, then add a little brown sauce and a little consomme, and stir the sauce on the fire till it boils. Then set it by the side to clear itself. Skim it well, take out the ham, bay-leaf, and thyme, and, after reducing it to the proper consistency, pour it into a bain-vutric for use. Just before dinner-time add a small piece of butter to soften the flavour. The pre- sence of truffle is essential for all those delicious dishes which come under the titles of a la Fincmciirc or a la Toulouse (see Fixanciere Ragout). It is need- less almost to remind housekeepers of the importance of saving all the fag- ends of truffles. When truffles are ob-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 153 tamed in bottles this caution is perhaps not so necessary; but when purchased fresh there is far too often a tendency on the part of cooks to waste them. One very convenient method of using up chips of truffle is to make a rich accom- paniment known as parte of truffle. This is simply made by placing all the truffles in a .-tewpan with a little butter, bay-leaf, thyme, and a little grated nutmeg and a bit of garlic, and adding a little brown sauce. This should be rubbed through a wire sieve and put by for use. Of course, when the flavour of garlic is not liked it should be omitted, and in any case only a small bead used. Truffles are sometimes used for ornamenting the centre of some rich entree, and when this is the case they can be cut up with a knife into various shai>es—such as round balls or leaves, arranging the small balls into a circle or scallops. These, after being allowed to simmer for a short time in a little glaze, should be placed, covered with glaze, in the centre of an entree. Of course, this is a very expensive mode of ornamenting. When truffles are used for ornamenting any kind of dish it is always desirable to call in the assistance of another garnish in the shape of a few small red crayfish. Black truffle, red crayfish, and green parsley will always enable the cook to make any dish look a handsome one. TUNNY-FISH.—Tunny-fish is a well- known and popular fish caught in the Mediterranean Sea, and can now be ob- tained in this country preserved in oil. -It. is extremely nice served up as a salad, the fish being placed in slices round the base of a lettuce salad. The salad can be finished in the ordinary way as a mayon- naise salad. (See Mayonnaise Sauce.) The fish is somewhat hard, and is by some persons thought to be indigestible. It possesses, however, a very decided rich flavour, and can be treated in any of the ways given for salmon. (See Salmon, Potted.) It is very nice eaten plain, as it is for breakfast, the only addition required being a little oil, vinegar, and pepper. Tunny-fish will also make a most delicious dish of curry. When it is curried, however, the oil in which it is preserved will not be suffi- cient to make the curry sauce. A little good curry sauce made separate can be added to it, and in making it a little ood plain salad oil can be used, erved up in this fashion it is somewhat more wholesome than when eaten plain and cold. Tunny-fish is also exceed- ingly nice served as a supper-dish sur- rounded with some thinly-sliced cucum- ber. TURKEY-AND-TONGUE, POTTED.— Turkey-and-tongue potted forms an agreeable addition to the breakfast- table. It is a slight variation on the more common dish, chicken-and-ham potted. Potted turkey-and-tongue can be used for all the various purposes re- commended under the heading of “ Chicken-and-Ham.” It only differs from it in the fact that it is slightly more substantial. Bor its vaious uses see “ Chicken-and-Ham, Potted.” It makes an admirable breakfast, lun- cheon, or supper dish. TURTLE FLESH, DRIED. —In making turtle soup from dried turtle flesh it is always well for the cook to have the very highest possible model before her eyes. The finest turtle soup made from fresh - killed turtle to be ob- tained in this country is, in my opinion, that made at the Freemasons’ Tavern. A short time back a turtle- soup contest took place in London, and soups were obtained from various quarters. The soups were simply num- bered, and some of the best judges of good cheer were called in, who were unanimous in giving their opinion that the soup obtained from the Free- masons’ Tavern, made by M. Burlet, was the best. Many years ago I pub- lished a receipt for making turtle soup from dried turtle flesh, and for some years I believe this receipt was univer- sally accepted. In this receipt I stated that it was best to soak the turtle flesh till it became partially tender. This operation took from two to three days. I also recommended that the flesh itself should be occasionally rubbed with a little salt, so as to remove any slight out- side impurities. M. Burlet, at the Freemasons’ Tavern, tried my receipt, and suggested the following improve- ment, which improvement I have tried, and fully agree with. It is not to soak the turtle flesl#at all, but, after haying thoroughly cleansed it, to put it in some stock, with some knuckle of veal, and boil it without stopping till it is tender. By this means he main-154 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S tains that more flavour is retained in the flesh itself. Naturally, the difficulty in making real turtle soup from dried turtle flesh is that the dried flesh cannot compete in flavour with fresh turtle. It is therefore important that as much flavour as possible should be kept in it. The next point for consideration in making turtlesoup from dried flesh,when we get our meat perfectly tender, is to make the soup. A very considerable amount of the gelatinous properties of the flesh will of course be dissolved into the stock. Of course, it is needless to say that the stock should be as good as pos- sible in making turtle soup. The next point is, what herbs should be used for flavouring the soup. Those used should be three parts sweet basil, two parts marjoram, aud the other one part should consist of ecpial quantities of thyme and lemon-thyme. Some persons use a very little pennyroyal, but this is not essen- tial. These herbs should be placed in a sufficient quantity—about half a pint— of stock in a stewpan, and the lid kept closely fitted. After the herbs have stewed for a considerable time, take the stewpan off the fire and let the contents get nearly cold; then strain them through a strainer, pressing the herbs as much as possible to extract all the flavour. Then take this essence of herbs and add it gradually to the soup till the right amount of herb-flavour has been obtained. In the vast majority of cases the herbs used for flavouring soups are dried herbs. These herbs differ very considerably in strength, and this de- ends on the length of time they have een kept. Were I to give you an exact quantity I should run the risk in the one case of making it too strong, and in the other of making it too weak, owing to the impossibility of knowing the state of the herbs. When turtle soup is wished clear it must be cleared in the ordinary way after the flesh has been removed. When the soup is wished thick a sufficient quantity of brown roux must be added, only avoid making it too thick. When brown roux is added great care must be taken to let the soup simmer by the side of the fire to throw up all i^ fat, which must be removed by skimming. Next add to the soup before sending it to table either some madeira or sherry. Sup- pose you have a quart of soup ; this will bear the addition of a claret-glass of madeira. If you can afford to have turtle soup at all it is well worth ex- pending three shillings in buying a bottle of madeira, winch wine is far more suited to the purpose than sherry. A bottle of madeira at three shillings is better than a bottle of sherry at the same price, especially for cooking pur- poses. It is also customary to put in a little lemon juice before sending the soup to table, in addition to which some cut-lemon and cayenne pepper should be handed round with the soup. Turtle soup is, of course, best made in large quantities, and in this respect tinned Soups have a slight advantage over turtle soup made in private houses in small quantities. At the Freemasons’ Tavern turtle soup made from fresh- killed turtle is a speciality, as it supplies not merely that establishment itself, but several others in London the property of the same owners. House- keepers would do well to remember that at certain seasons of the year turtle soup made from the dried turtle flesh is absolutely cheaper than mock turtle. I allude to the period about Christmas, when, owing to some cause w'hicli I am unacquainted with, calves’ heads have been known to fetch as much as a guinea each. A pound of turtle flesh will be amply sufficient to make soup for a dozen per- i sons. Housekeepers will also remember | that when they buy flesh that is in a dry state, when it has been soaked or boiled ; hi soup it will swell to four or five times its original thickness. The flesh should | not be cup up into small pieces, as too often is the case abroad, but should be : kept in good-sized pieces, about three inches long by two wide. Many years ago it was customary to serve small forcemeat balls with turtle soup, but I think this has now gone somewiiat out of fashion. When M. Bullet was chef at the Reform Club, he used the above receipt for dressing dried turtle flesh. He was informed by members that they could not tell the difference between the soup made from it and from the fresh turtle. TURTLE MEAT.—Turtle meat is now to be obtained preserved in tins. This turtle meat is the tinned meat of fresh turtle, and is exceedingly suitable to make fresh soup for invalids. Of course, turtle meat can be used for makingHOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 155 turtle soup for a party of friends, but probably It is better adapted for the purposes of invalid cooking. With the addition of one or two tins of essence of beef, a very fine, clear turtle soup can be sent to table at a very few minutes’ notice in any house by pro- ceeding as follows:—Open first of all the essence of meat—say, two tins of essence of beef. Next take a little stock—or even water if no stock is to be obtained. Place in it some of the herbs mentioned under the heading of soup made from dried turtle flesh (see Turtle Flesh, Dried). This should be strained off and added to the soup, as a precaution that too much flavour has not been added. The turtle meat should now be added to this soup. If there is time a couple of onions should be sliced up and boiled in the essence of beef before the turtle flesh is added. Strain off the onion, put in the meat, and add a good-sized claret-glass of madeira or brown sherry. The essence of beef known as “ Gillon’s Essence of Beef ” is admirably adapted for this purpose. This would make some turtle soup very rich indeed. Of course, it can be diluted with a little water—or, still better, by the addition of stock. When there is time—and half an hour would be ample —I would recommend an onion to be sliced up and boiled in the essence of beef, with a head of celery and a good handful of parsley. I think turtle soup made from this essence of beef and turtle meat in the way I have stated will be superior to ordinary tinned turtle soup itself. There are occasions when to be able to send to table a small quantity of real turtle soup might be very important. For instance, at hotels, on the sudden arrival of some great celebrity. The most ordinary form of serving turtle meat in tins is simply to add to it some good, rich, clear stock, when it forms an admirable invalid’s dish. When served with very rich stock and wine it is more suited for the ordinary purposes of the table. TURTLE SOUP, MOCK.—See Mock Turtle Soup. TURTLE SOUP, REAL, TINNED.— Real turtle soup is now sold in tins, but by far the greater proportion of these tins contain what is known as “ Invalid Turtle.” This soup is a very delicate form of nourishment, and has been universally approved by medical men as suited to the most delicate constitutions. Indeed this tinned soup is so admirably adapted for invalids, that it is a positive cruelty to convert it into soup suitable for tal ile purposes. In serving turtle soup for invalids, immerse the tin in boiling water for about twenty minutes; then take out the tin, dry it, open it, and pour the soup into a soup-plate. In the case of the invalid having that terrible loathing of food which is _ so often one of the most distressing symptoms of illness, it is far best to serve only a small portion at a time. It may sometimes perhaps require the addition of a pinch of salt and a teaspoonful of madeira or sherry, but this of course is purely a matter of taste. ANILLA, ESSENCE OF.—Es- sence of vanilla is one of the most useful of all essences sold for flavouring sweets of almost every description. It is sold in small bottles, but this essence should always be kept in glass- stoppered bottles—indeed, so greatly does it deteriorate if exposed to the air, that, if it were possible, I would recommend housekeepers to have cap- ped stoppered bottles, somewhat similar to those in which chemists keep ether and chloroform. In private houses where the cook has small bottles of vanilla in ordinary bottles corked up, she would do well to bear in mind that the amount of essence to be used will vary very considerably, ac- cording to the time the bottles have been in the house. I will take the sim- ple case of a pint of good custard. If the essence of vanilla is really good and fresh, a saltspoonful of essence would be amply sufficient to impart a vanilla flavour to the custard. Should, however, the essence have been kept in the house for several months, with the probability of its having been carelessly corked, it is difficult to say how much would have to be put in it to impart the required flavour. Possibly as much as two teaspoonfuls. This may possibly be slightly exaggerated, but it only tends to prove the importance of having the essence very carefully corked. Essence of vanilla may be used for flavouring almost every kind of pudding that may be termed milky, and almost156 CROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S every dish that contains cream. Of course I am only speaking of sweets. One very delicious dish to be made from vanilla is vanilla whipped cream. The essence of vanilla, just like any other flavouring, must be added to the cream before it is whipped. A small quantity of essence of vanilla is also very useful to give tone to jelly. What I mean by giving tone is this. Do not add a sufficient quantity of vanilla essence to the jelly to make it vanilla jelly, but only a few drops to. impart a slight richness of flavour, which nothing else will do, just in the same way as in colouring jelly we may add one or two drops of cochineal to give it a slight tone, without adding sufficient to make the mould of jelly pink. Perhaps one of the nicest sweets that can be made is tipsy cake, made from stale sponge cakes or brioche cake, spread with apricot jam. If the tipsy cake is made from cake which has been cut in slices horizontally, spread these slices with a thin layer of jam, and then pile them up so as to regain the original shape of the cake. Now soak the cake in some wine, sherry being very good for the purpose, and let the cake thoroughly soak up the wine. Now pour over it a good rich custard flavoured with vanilla. Then take some almonds, blanch them, cut them into thin strips, and stick them in all over the cake. The flavour of vanilla harmonises extremely well with sherry and apricot jam. Essence of vanilla is also useful for making vanilla cream ice. When cream cannot be obtained an ex- cellent substitute can be made by. mix- ing two yolks of eggs with half a pint of milk and a tablespoonful of Swiss milk. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten the whole if the Swiss milk has not already sweetened it sufficiently. Add to this a saltspoonful of essence of vanilla. Now freeze the mixture, and a very ex- cellent ice will be made, though of course not equal to those that would be made from pure cream. VANILLA JELLY.—Vanilla jelly, as its name implies, is a very, delicious jelly, and can be obtained in bottles containing half pints, pints, and quarts. This jelly is particularly suited for being put into very small moulds, wrhen one mould forms a portion for each person. In melting the jelly in the bottle care should be taken not to over- heat it. The best way of melting jelly i)i bottles is to put the bottle into luke- warm water, and as soon as it Ls suffi- ciently melted round the edges, to pour it out at once, as of course the jelly will begin to melt round the outside before it does in the centre. The jelly in the neck of the bottle will be easily melted at once by placing round it a cloth dipped in boiling wafer. Vanilla jelly hi bottles, when used for making small moulds, can be varied in colour by having one half of it made pink by the addition of either cocliineal or some of Breton’s vegetable colouring. When the weather is cold, or when ice is ob- tainable, it can be improved by the addition of a little extra wine. Should the jelly not be sufficiently impregnated with the flavour of vanilla to suit the taste of those who are fond of highly- flavoured jellies, of course the flavour can be unproved by the addition of a little essence of vanilla. VANILLA PODS.—Vanilla pods, or sticks, are, of course, the pure vanilla itself. It is very important to keep these sticks in long glass-stoppered bottles. Perhaps the pure vanilla itself is the most perfect way of imparting the flavour of vanilla to most substances. It is not, however, so convenient as essence of vanilla. The best wray of using vanilla is to take a small quan- tity and sew it up in a small piece of muslin, to which a string can.be attacliod. At first the flavour of vanilla is very strong indeed. Suppose the cook is going to make a pint of custard. Place the muslin bag with the string attached in the milk, so that it can be taken out at any moment. After a short time the cook should taste the milk to see if it is sufficiently flavoured. If so, take out the muslin bag, squeeze it dry, and replace it in the stoppered bottle. Of course, if the bag is allowed to hang up in the kitchen—or, what is more probable, be allowed to get dry in one of the kitchen drawers-- a great deal of the essence of vanilla will evaporate, as will be evidenced by the very deli- cious smell that the dinner-napkins and table-cloths that may be kept in the drawer with it will acquire. VEAL-AND-HAM PATE'.—Veal-and- ham is a mixture that has always been popular. Veal-and-ham pie is a stand-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 157 iiig dish at the breakfast-tables of all large hotels, and there seems to be a universal opinion that the flavour of ham and veal combined is better than any other mixture for the purpose of making pies. Veal-and-ham pates form a very agreeablo addition to the break- fast or luncheon-table, and of course they possess the great advantage of being always ready at a moment’s notice, and also of keeping good for years so long as the tin is not opened. In open- ing a tin of veal-and-ham pates care should be taken so .to cut the tin that the pate will turn oat whole. Of course, for this purpose it must be cut carefully round the edge, and when it has been turned out on to the dish it can be ornamented with a little green parsley or surrounded by a small paper frill. Cooks will do well to bear in mind that these veal-and-ham pates in tins are somewhat rich. The remains should never be wasted, but they should be utilised for making various kinds of forcemeat. Under the heading Chicken- and-Ham Path I have described how to make those useful and economical entries, rissoles and kromeslties. The remains of veal-and-ham pate are equally as good as the remains of chicken-and- ham pate. Also under the heading Pate de Foie Gras will be found a re- ceipt for making Italian fritters. The remains of veal-and-ham pate will be found exceedingly useful for this pur- pose. VEGETABLES, MIXED, DRIED.— Dried mixed vegetables can now be obtained, and are exceedingly useful for the purpose of making Julienne soup. Most housekeepers know how popular a soup Julienne is at all times of the year; but oftentimes the expense of obtaining the necessary vegetables is considerable. There are many seasons of the year when carrot cannot be ob- tained at all except in a form which, however carefully it may be cooked, is absolutely uneatable owing to its hardness. These dried vegetables will be found an exceedingly cheap and use- ful article for the store-closet. Of course, they -will require when used the addition of some good strong clear stock. Good clear stock may be made in the house from ordinary beef or veal, or it can be made at half an hour’s notice by using some of Crosse and Blackwell’s extract of meat (see Extract of Meat). All that is necessary is to see that the vege- tables are perfectly tender before they are served. I would here remind house- keepers that these dried mixed vege- tables cannot be served at a moment’s notice, they require soaking. When it is possible, I would always recommend housekeepers to place a sufficient quan- tity of the mixed vegetables they may require in cold water overnight. Then in the morning, after the vege- tables are soaked, the cook should place them in the stock and let them boil gently till they are perfectly ten- der. They are far better, after being soaked, boiled in the stock, as the vege- tables themselves, when treated with boiling water or stock, undoubtedly give out their flavour, which is neces- sary, especially if the soup has. been made from extract of meat. When good stock has been made from ordinary vegetables, and contains the flavour of carrot, turnip, onion, celery, etc., of course it is not of so great importance. These mixed dried vegetables, however, enable housekeepers to put a really good, genuine dish of Julienne soup on the table at all times of the year, and be perfectly independent of both gardeners and the weather. VEGETABLE COLOURING, BRETON’S. —Breton’s vegetable colourings are a most valuable assistance to cooks, and especially to those cooks who may be termed not “good plain,” but “pro- fessed.” These vegetable colourings are sold in bottles, containing carmine, red, green, yellow, etc. I would strongly re- commend all housekeepers who use colouring of any description to exercise the very greatest precaution in obtain- ing only those that are known to be harmless. There is a good old saying that “ comparisons are odious.” It is not my business so much to warn house- keepers against injurious colouring mat- ters as to be able to guarantee the colourings now sold by Messrs. Crosse and Blackwell to be perfectly harmless and pure. We have often heard of danger to children from eating green-coloured ornaments on twelfth cakes, and we have, indeed, heard of danger to persons from sleeping in a room with green- tinted paper. The word “vegetable” colouring is in itself sufficient guarantee that it does not contain metallic arsenic.1S8 .CROSSE AND . The old-fashioned simple form of colour- 1 ing things green was to use the bright I and harmless vegetable, spinach, but { still those cooks who have endeavoured ' to make green colouring matter from spinach well know what a desperately troublesome job it was, and how often, owing to the want of proper power to express the juice, the result was a failure. These little bottles of colouring mat- ter _ are invaluable for the kitchen. I will take tho simple case of a small mould of blanc-mange. Say we have an ordinary fluted mould at the top of which is a cucumber. Underneath this there is a sort of raised mound, and then a pedestal. Suppose we pour the blanc- mange into the mould at once, let it set, and turn it out. The result may be very nice so far as eating goes, but the dish can scarcely be termed an ar- tistic one. Let the cook act as fol- lows :—Place in the cucumber enough water to just All it. Pour this into a glass, and mark on the outside the exact point to which the water rises. Throw the water away, and fill up the glass to this point with some of the liquid blanc-mange, and colour it a bright green with some of the green colouring matter. Now pour this care- fully into the mould, so that it sets in the cucumber,' taking care also that none overflows. If it is cold weather, or if there is a little ice in the house, this small quantity can be made to set almost immediately. In the mean time take sufficient jelly to fill the next layer in the mould—that part which stands above the pedestal and underneath the cucumber. Open a bottle of any kind of jelly that may be in the house, and colour this a bright carmine with some of Breton’s vegetable colouring .matter. This jelly will now be perfectly bright and red. If bottled jelly is used, which is always bright, when the lights are placed on the table the jelly will flash like a ruby. Plunge the mould in ice again, and then carefully fill up the re- mainder of the mould with blanc-mange. What a difference does this mould now present to what it did before ! The white pedestal on the top of which rests the ruby-red cushion, on which, in turn, lies the green cucumber, will be ex- tremely pretty. Another very pretty way is as follows :—Suppose the centre of the mould is ornamented with cucum- ber, and that the edge of the mould is BLACKWELL'S | surrounded with little domes. The 1 cucumber can, of course, be filled with | blanc-mange, coloured green, and the little domes can be filled with bright- coloured jelly and the remainder of the. mould with blanc-mange. There is no doubt that the green cucumber contrasts best against the white. The mould would perhaps look better treated as follows:—First take a mould of jelly and colour it a bright red with carmine. Let this be the base of the pedestal, and on the top of it have a thin white layer of blanc-mange, and on the top of the whole the green cucumber. This, how- ever, is all a matter of taste, and taste is not to be taught in books. These colouring matters can be used for a very great variety of purposes beyond that (if sweets. . I may mention one sweet here that it is very useful for, namely, that of pistachio cream, a receipt for making which will be found under the heading Pistachio Kkknels. We all know pistachio kernels are green. Still, it would be impossible to use a sufficient quantity of them to impart agood bright colour to the cream. When, therefore, the cook is making pistachio cream, she will find it a very great assistance to add some of the green vegetable colouring matter. One other very nice dish in which this green colouring matter is ex- tremely useful is that of green-pea soup. Perhaps most housekeepers, but I fear not all, are aware that very good green- pea soup can be made in early spring from a very few peas by using the husks of the pe.os to make the soup. The husks of young peas contain almost as much flavour of peas as the peas themselves, and when young and tender they make most excellent soup. Act as follows :— Take some very good stock, free from any brown colour. Next shell a small quantity of freshly-gathered peas. Throw the peas themselves, which, of course, will be young and very small, into cold water, and place the whole of the husks in the stock to boil until they are tender. When they are very ten- der, which will be after an hour or a little over, rub the whole of the husks through a wire sieve. This requires both patience and perseverance. But when these two qualities are brought into play very excellent green-pea soup is the result, the only drawback being its colour, which is of a pale greenish order,HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 159 rather than what wo might expect in green-pea Soup when green peas them- selves had imparted their colour to the soup. But with the help of one of these little bottles of colouring matter this difficult}' can be immediately overcome, and the soup now becomes a bright green—indeed, if plenty of colouring matter be put in it surpasses the genuine article. 1 would therefore warn cooks against putting in too much, otherwise the soup will look too good to be true— indeed, there must be a little ingenuity exercised to give the imitation article the appearance of the genuine one. For instance, when clear stock is made from extract of meat, of course there is a pos- sibility of there being no fat whatever in I it. Now it is a very rare thing indeed to find soup made from meat sent to table without one or two tiny little oil specks on the surface. By taking a little piece of butter not bigger than the top of the little finger, and throwing it into the soup just before it is served, there is an air of genuineness imparted to the soup, and the little specks of butter, just one or two here and there, certainly convey the impression that meat, has been used in making it. So, too, in making green-pea soup from husks of youngpeas, it is a great mistake to overdo the colour, as it gives rise to suspicion. Therefore, colour the soup just suffi- ciently green to make it fairly passable. About ten minutes or a quarter of an hour before sending it to table, while it is boiling, throw in the peas them- selves whole. It is wonderful how very cheaply a tureen of green-pea soup can be made if this common-sense and eco- nomical process be carefully carried out. The yellow vegetable colouring matter is very useful for an infinite number of purposes. When used in making cakes it suggests the idea of great liberality in the use of eggs. So, too, in making custards. With the assistance of a little arrowroot to make it thick, one egg, say, for conscience’ sake, can be put in, and some of this yellow colouring mat- ter, and a most delicious custard can be made—at any rate, so far as appearances go—and when flavoured with vanilla really it is most excellent. It is a great satisfaction when using colouring matter to know that it is perfectly harmless, for that too often used by bakers under the general heading of ; “chrome” is very injurious. The sub- ject of making sponge-cakes and orna- ments for cakes is far too large a one to be entex-ed into hei’e, but I would remind housekeepers, and especially young lady housekeepers, what a very great variety of pretty, and at the same time perfectly harmless, sweets can be made for children with the assistance of a few bottles of these colouring matters. There is something very satisfactory in making a home-made twelfth-cake, and for the details I would recommend them to consult “ Cassell’s Dictionary of Cookery.” VENISON SOUP.—Venison soup is now to be obtained in tins, and it is a very convenient form of serving two or three persons with a little soup at a few minutes’ notice. It also mixes admi- rably with the remains of any kind of game that may be left from the pre- vious day, such as backs of gi’ouse or partridges. It has a gamey flavour, and, of course, will bear this addition, when it can be sent to table under the general name of game soup. The soup will also bear the addition of a little stock, but when stock is added it is just as well to add a tablespoonful of brown roux to make the soup a little thicker, and also a teaspoonful of extract of meat, which makes it l’icher. It is also an impi-ovement to add a tablespoonful of port wine. The soup, however, is very nice just as it is, and can be served at once by placing the tin in a saucepan of boiling water for about twenty minvxtes, when the tin can be opened and the soup served. VERMICELLI.—Vermicelli is a prepa- ration made in Italy from the finest wheat flour, and is probably the most popular form in which Italian paste is sold in this country. It is used for a variety of purposes in cooking—sweets, soups, and entries. In making vermi- celli soup the cook should i-emember that the vei-micelli should be first washed, and then boiled sepai’ately in some plain water. Vermicelli soup, which is always a popular one, is a clear soup, but if the vermicelli is added at once to the soup and boiled in it it will turn the bx-ight stock cloudy. The cook should therefore first wash the necessary quantity of vermicelli, pour away tlie water in which it has been washed, throw it into boiling water, and let it boil gently till it is tender. ItCROSSE AND BLACKWELL'S is always best, ton, in making vermicelli soui), to break the vermicelli up into reasonable lengths. Most persons have experienced the difficulty of eating ver- micelli soup when at the moment of putting it into the mouth the vermi- celli slips over the edge of the spoon and chves back into the plate. This is the cook’s fault. Another very pretty use to which vermicelli can be put is for ornamenting rissoles. Suppose you have the broken remains of a small tin of vermicelli. They are scarcely adapted for making soup, being broken. Do not, however, throw them away, but the next time you make that useful and economical dish known as rissoles—-a receipt for which is given under the heading “ Ohicken-ana-Ham Pate ”— act as follows :—Do not trouble about making any bread-crumbs, but when you have got the rissoles ready, dip them in the beaten-up egg, and roll them in the little broken pieces of vermicelli. Now throw them into the smoking-hot lard, and the little round balls will come out from the frying-pan surrounded by a sort of trellis-work of vermicelli on the brown surface, reminding one of those carved wooden balls imported from Japan and China. Vermicelli makes a light and delicious pudding. The ver- micelli should be first washed perfectly clean, and then placed for a short time in boiling water, when it should be re- moved and boiled, till quite tender, in some milk. The pudding, of course, should be sweetened with sugar, and can be flavoured with almost any kind of essence, such as essence of vanilla, or it can be flavoured by rubbing lumps of sugar on the outside of a fresh lemon. If the pudding is wished very rich, two or more eggs can now be added, or if it is intended for an invalid the yolks only of the eggs need be added. After the yolks have been thoroughly well beaten-up in a little hot milk the whole should be put into the pudding and well mixed up. The pudding can be baked in the oven in a pie-dish, or if it is wished boiled, it can be placed in a basin tied over with a cloth, and steamed for a couple of hours. In either case, owing to the presence of eggs, the pud- ding will set, and can be turned out on to a dish. In the case of the pudding being boiled in a basin, the basin can be first buttered, and the outside of the pudding ornamented with a few stars cut out of preserved cherries or green angelica, similar to that of cabiiiet pud- ding. When, however, the pudding is turned out, the stars are apt to slip, and will often require to be put back. In the case of using a pie-dish the pudding can be turned out and the top orna- mented with some small heaps of apricot and raspberry jams placed alternately. Jam can also be placed round the base. When vermicelli pudding is made for invalids a very nice plan of ornamenting it is to place little balls of orange mar- malade round the base. It is best to warm the orange marmalade first in the oven, but do not make it too hot. A very delicious sweet can be made from vermicelli, called vermicelli cake, a re- ceipt for which will be found in “ Fran- catelli’s Modern Cook.” VERMICELLI SOUP.—Vermicelli soup can now be purchased ready made in tins. The soup can be heated by placing the tin in a saucepan of boiling water and keep- ing it there for about twenty minutes, when the tin can be opened and the con- tents served. This is a very convenient soup to have in the house, as it is espe- cially adapted for invalids. It is alight soup, and easy of digestion. Should more nourishment be required than is generally put in the soup, I -would re- commend the addition of a little ex- tract of meat. VINCENT’S ARROWROOT. —See Arrowroot. VINEGARS, VARIOUS.—Vinegar is a very important preparation exten- sively used in all kitchens. It is largely used in all households, and housekeepers would do well to bear in mind how important it is to obtain the best, and to see that it is per- fectly pure. As a rule, everything is better made in large quantities than in small, and I have no hesitation in say- ing that good vinegar cannot be made in very small quantities. Many years ago it was customary in various parts of the country to see housekeepers making their own vinegar by the primitive method of placing some sour beer in a large jar, tying the top over with a piece of muslin, and placing it in the garden in hot weather to see now sour it would get. Pure vinegar is best obtained from large manufacturers. There are various kinds of vinegar sold, but the pure malt1G1 HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. vinegar is to my thinking the best. Then there is French white wine vinegar, which has these objections to it. First of all, it is rarely to be ob- tained perfectly pure, and too often its extreme acidity renders it almost unfit for use, except for very rare dishes. Very acid vinegar, indeed, such as white wine vinegar, may be used cau- tiously, mixed with mayonnaise sauce. When we want vinegar for ordinary purposes there is no doubt that pure malt vinegar is very far superior indeed to the white wine vinegar. So, too, for the purposes of making every land of pickles. All English pickles should be made with pure English vinegar. The idea of making pickles with that sharp vinegar which is met with on the Con- tinent is almost too horrible to contem- plate. Many a young person travelling abroad for the first time has been led into serious difficulty in mistaking white wine vinegar for the good old home- made genuine vinegar. I do not like to speak at random, but going by the taste only, I should say that the vinegar met with on the Continent owes its great acidity to some substance far more acid than sour wine. Indeed, we heard a few days back of some sauteme which was tested in some place abroad, the result of the analysis showing that no grape juice existed in it whatever. Its place, however, was supplied by sul- phuric acid. What this would be like when it got sour and was made into vinegar there is no saying. In addition to ordinary malt vinegar there are various kinds of vinegar which have been fla- voured with other substances sold in bottles. For instance, there is chili vine- gar, cayenne vinegar, elder vinegar, gar- lic vinegar, etc. The names of these vinegars almost explain themselves. In mixing salads, when a slight flavour of chili, cayenne, or garlic is required, these vinegars are very convenient forms of imparting the flavour. HALNUT CATSUP. —Walnutcat- sup, though perhaps not so generally used as mushroom catsup, is still a favourite preparation with many peo- ple. Indeed, there are some who prefer the flavour of walnut catsup to that of mushroom catsup. This is, of course, purely a matter of taste. When the flavour is liked, however, walnut catsup can be used for very nearly all the purposes for which mush- room catsup is employed. Walnut cat- sup has also an admirable flavour in making those rich sauces which contain very high seasonings. For instance, any sauce which contained a large quantity of garlic would bear the addi- tion of walnut catsup. Walnut catsup possesses one advantage, namely,, it is somewhat cheaper as a rule than mush- room catsup. In large households, such as schools, etc., walnut catsup will be found an admirable sauce for imparting a rich and agreeable flavour to hashes and stews. It also makes very excellent fish sauce, best adapted to be eaten with fried fish of all kinds when catsup is mixed with a little melted butter. One occasion on which I would recommend walnut catsup not to be used as a sub- stitute for mushroom catsup is when it is employed with any kind of white meat, such as chicken. There is a pecu- liar flavour about mushrooms which harmonises with white meat, such as poultry, which I do not think will be found the case with walnut catsup, at any rate to the same degree. WALNUTS, PICKLED.—Pickled wal- nuts are always favourites, but they do. not mix with other pickles. Walnuts are extremely difficult to pickle at home. The exact point between pick- ing the walnuts too young or too old requires the opinion of an expert. When walnuts are pickled too young they break to pieces, and when pickled too old the outside becomes soft, but the inside too hard to be eaten. The walnuts that are bought in bottles can always be depended upon. They are admirably adapted to be served with every kind of cold meat, but I do not recommend them to be used for making sauce. Some, however, who are partial to the flavour of pickled walnuts will make sauce from them in the ordinary way by mashing up two or three pickled wal- nuts, and putting them in a saucepan with about twice the quantity of brown gravy. I do not think pickled walnuts harmonise vdth fish, but this sauce can be served with mutton cutlets. I think a considerable quantity of cayenne- pepper will be found an improvement. WEST INDIAN ARROWROOT.—Sec Arrowroot. K162 CROSSE AND WEST INDIAN LIMES, PICKLED.—See Limes. WEST INDIAN LIMES IN SYRUP.-See Limes. WHITE ONIONS, PICKLED. — See •Onions. WHITE'S, CAPTAIN, CURRY PASTE. —See Curry Paste. WHITE’S, CAPTAIN, ORIENTAL PICKLES.—See Oriental Pickles. WEST INDIAN PICKLES.—West In- dian pickles are a very hot pickle, sold in bottles. They are well adapted to be eaten with every kind of cold meat, but are far better with beef or mutton than with any land of poultry. West India pickle makes an agreeable sauce by warming up a spoonful of pickle in a little brown gravy. Take, say a table- spoonful of pickles, cut them up rather fine, but do not mince them. Add this to about twice its cpiantity of good brown gravy, and, if necessary, thicken it with a little arrowroot. This is a very .suitable sauce to bo served for breakfast with cutlets or grilled salmon, etc. WEST INDIAN PRESERVED GINGER. —See Ginger, Preserved. WEST INDIAN TAMARINDS.—See Tamarinds. WOODCOCK PATE, TRUFFLED.—The woodcock has for many years ranked king among birds, at any rate in the opi- nion of epicures. The very idea sug- gested by the combination of the flavour of woodcock and truffles is sufficient to make the mouth water. I would strongly recommend a trial of these delicious pates. When game is not in season they form a most admirable dish at picnics in summer, before game has come into season. They can be served as a little bonne louche after the invari- able cold lamb and mint sauce. But I would remind housekeepers that they are always best first placed for a short time in a little iced water. I have, under the heading of “ Chicken-and- Ha m Pate,” and also under the heading of “ Pate de Foie Gras,” explained how the remains of these delicious pates can be utilised for various kinds of force- meat. The same observations apply with equal force to woodcock pate. I# cannot say that I have ever tried it my- self, owing to my experience being that BLACKWELL’S these pat us are so delicious that I have never been present on any occasion when any has been left at all. WOODCOCKS, TRUFFLED. — Wood- cocks can now be obtained preserved in tins in conjunction with truffles. They form an exceedingly agreeable dish eaten just as they are. When, however, the birds can be removed from the tin whole, a very delicate dish suited for ball suppers can be made from them by glazing the woodcocks and serving them up with a salad made with macedoines, and surrounding the dish with some aspic jelly. A full description of how to make this very pretty dish will be found under the heading Larks, Truffled. WORCESTER SAUCE. — Worcester sauce has for many years been most de- servedly popular, and though it comes last in our list of sauces, it certainly does not rank least. Worcester 6auce con- tains a considerable amount of heat— that is, pepper heat. It is also exceed- ingly rich in flavour. With sauces con- taining this marked flavour cooks would do well to bear in mind that just in pro- portion as they are valuable for some urposes they are unsuited for others, have known instances of young and inexperienced cooks who have laboured under the delusion that soup is all the better for a variety of compounds, and Worcester sauce has been absolutely used for the purpose of imparting flavour to clear soup. It is needless to say it is extremely unsuited for this purpose. On the other hand, there are many tilings which are very considerably im- proved by the addition of Worcester sauce. In making various kinds of rich “ devil ” sauces, for instance. Worcester sauce is exceedingly valuable. It is sometimes used for making that simple but extremely nice dish known as devilled toast. Devilled toast will often tempt persons to take a slight luncheon or to commence breakfast when nothing else will. Make an ordinary slice of toast, toast it on both sides, and have ready the following mixture with which to spread it:—Some butter, soft, but not oiled, some mus- tard, a little cayenne pepper, and about a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce poured ouf of the bottle after the bottle has ■5 been shaken. Worcester sauce is also exceedingly nice as a fish sauce in con-HOUSEKEEPER'S GUIDE. 163 junction with melted butter. On every occasion on which it is used, house- keepers should bear in mind tho import- ance of having the bottle well shaken, as it contains a thick sediment, which will settle. Worcester sauce is an ad- mirable compound when used in mode- ration to give tone to a variety of dishes. I will mention, however, but one, and that one so generally known—viz., the good old-fashioned Welsh rarebit. In making Welsh rarebit of course a great deal depends on the cheese, which should be moist, and not dry. A little butter should be used, simply to prevent the cheese from sticking, but not too much. There are various old-fashioned modes of imparting flavour to Welsh rarebit, the one most generally known being that of adding a little old ale. I would recommend the cook, in making a small Welsh rarebit, to try the experiment of mixing in with it a teaspoonful of Wor- cester sauce. It gives the whole dish a rich and almost gamey flavour that can- not be imparted to it by any other sauce that I can call to mind. El,LOW VEGETABLE COLOUR- ING.—See Vegetable Co- louring. a. £. BURT ANDV