217 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES Note.—If preferred the onions may be simply fried in the frying pan before the steak, and then kept warm while the meat is being cooked. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 850. Beef Steak with Oysters 1 £ lbs. steak. 1 doz. tinned oysters. A small piece of butter. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Salt. Cayenne. 1 yolk of egg. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream. To Prepare the Oysters.—Drain them from their liquor, and put them into a saucepan with the lemon juice, a small piece of butter, and a seasoning of cayenne and salt. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes until the oysters begin to curl up, then add the yolk of egg beaten up with the cream. Make thoroughly hot, but do not boil again. If necessary keep the mixture warm over hot water. Grill or fry the steak according to directions given under Recipe 843 or 845. Serve it on a hot dish, and place the oysters round. Note.—Endeavour to have both steak and oysters ready about the same time. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 851. Porterhouse Steak (Entrecote) This is a large and specially cut steak. Ask the butcher to cut a slice of beef, not less than 1J inch in thickness, from a good sirloin with an undercut. The piece should look like a big chop. Flatten it slightly with a cutlet bat, and trim neatly. Then brush it over on both sides with melted butter or salad oil, season with freshly ground pepper, and if time permits let the steak lie from § to 1 hour. Then grill over a clear fire (see Grilling), allowing from 15 to 20 minutes, according to whether the steak is liked well or under done. When ready, lift on to a very hot dish, sprinkle with salt, and serve with a pat of maitre d’hotel, or any other savoury butter on the top. Grilled tomatoes or mushrooms may be used as a garnish, and fried potatoes and horse-radish sauce may be served separately. 852. Steamed Steak and Kidney 1 lb. beef steak. 1 or 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. water. Salt. Pepper, ltea-sp. chopped parsley Wipe the steak, trim it, and cut it in four equal- sized pieces. Skin the kidney and cut it in quarters, removing the fat from the centre. Then coat both meat and kidney with flour, and season them with pepper and salt. Put the chopped onion at the bottom of a basin, and lay the steak and kidney on the top. Pour in the water, cover the basin with a plate or saucer, and steam steadily until the steak feels tender. Serve the steak on a hot dish with the kidney on the top, pour the gravy and onion round, and sprinkle with the chopped parsley. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 853. Russian- Steaks 4 lb. tender steak. | lb. fillet of veal. 1 shallot. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. (Biftecks & la Russe) Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of mace. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Tomato sauce. Any raw trimmings of beef or veal may be used for these. Remove all skin from the meat, cut it in pieces, and pass it twice through the mincing machine. Then put it into a basin, and add the shallot, parsley, and seasoning. Moisten with the yolk of egg, and mix well. Spread the mixture on a plate, and allow it to set for half an hour. Then divide it into eight or ten equal-sized pieces. Form each piece into a round flattish cake, using flour to prevent the mixture from sticking to the board, and egg and bread-crumb them. Then flatten the steaks with a knife and re-shape them. Melt the fat in a frying-pan, when smoking hot put in the steaks, and fry them first on one side and then on the other until nicely browned. Drain them well, and serve in a circle on a hot dish. Pour tomato sauce round ; or, a little sour cream may be added to the fat left in the pan, seasoned to taste, brought to the boil, and used as a sauce. Note.—These steaks may, if liked, be dished on a border of potatoes, and green peas used as a garnish. Time to cook, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 854. Minced Steaks, Grilled 1 lb. beef steak. Salt. Pepper. Wipe the meat, remove all skin and sinew, and put it twice through the mincing machine. Season the meat with pepper and salt, and form it into about six round flat cakes of equal thickness. They should not be more than about \ inch thick. Place them on a well-greased grill, and cook them according to general directions given for grilling (see p. 208). The time will depend upon whether the meat is liked well or under done, but they will require rather longer than a piece of ordinary steak of the same thickness. Serve the steaks on a hot dish, put a little maitre d’hotel or plain • butter on the top, and serve with fried potatoes or potato puree. Note.—A little finely chopped or grated onion may, if liked, be mixed with the beef, or some nuts blanched and chopped. 855. Baked Steak with Bacon A p ch of nutmeg. 1 tea-cupful biscuit crumbs. J lb. bacon. 1 lb. beef steak. 1 dessert - sp. grated onion. Salt. Pepper. Choose tender and juicy steak, wipe it, cut it in pieces, removing all skin, but reserving the fat, and put it through the mincing machine. The crumbs should be made from toast or other dry light biscuits. Add them to the minced meat along with the minced onion and seasoning. Mix thoroughly, and then spread out on a greased fire- proof dish not more than an inch in thickness. Lay the bacon cut in very thin slices on the top.