COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 656 of course, tko service can bo more quickly per- formed if two are in attendance, or if some help is given by dishes being brought from the kitchen, and soiled dishes carried away. When two maids are in attendance, the principal one carries round the soup, fish, or meat, as the case may be, and the assistant follows with the accompaniments. The head waitress should never leave the room, her second doing all the carrying to and fro. Inexperienced waitresses have sometimes a little difficulty in knowing at what side a dish should be laid down or removed. The following rules should be attended to. (1) When there is no choice of dishes, the plate with its contents should be put down at the right- hand side of the person seated. (2) When there is a choice, as in the case of two different sweets, or two different kinds of fish, these should bo handed at the left-hand side. (3) When a dish has to be offered, as, for instance, an entree or a vegetable, it should be carried to the left-hand side. (4) Soiled plates should be removed from the right-hand side. (5) Clean and empty plates should be put down at the right-hand side. (6) Wine should be offered from the right-hand side, as the glasses are naturally standing in that position. It is a good rule to remember that anything that is offered, except wine, should be carried to the left-hand side. PRECEDENCE IN SERVING At a family dinner the lady of the house should be served first, unless she is carving; then the daughters of the house, and the governess if there is one, and lastly the master of the house, and the sons accord- ing to age. If only one or two guests are present, serve them first, commencing with the ladies and the principal guest. At a formal dinner-party, where there are a number of guests, commence with the lady on the right-hand side of the host (the principal guest), and continue straight round the table irrespective of sex. It is not then the custom to serve the ladies before the gentlemen. If there are several maids in attendance, the two sides of the table may be served simultaneously, commencing with the lady seated next the host on each side. In the case of small tables, the one where the principal guests are seated should be served first. THE DIFFERENT COURSES Hors d’CEuvre.—These are generally served on little china or glass dishes, and placed on the plate before dinner is announced—especially in the case of oysters—or a choice of several kinds may be offered on a small tray, and any accompaniments handed with them. Soup.—If the soup is served from the side and the dinner consists of numerous courses, three- quarters of a ladleful will be sufficient to give as a helping. If there are two different soups, the waitress should take a plate of each and offer a choice ; if only one, she should take a plate of soup in ono hand and a plate of croutons or pulled bread in the other. Parmesan cheese may also be served with clear soup. Fish.—The waitress should take a portion of fish in the right hand, and the sauce or other accom- paniment in the left. If there is a choice, she should take a portion of each kind, and the accom- paniments would be offered by a second waitress. Dressed fish or fish entries should be handed round in the dish. Entries.—A hot or cold plate as required must first be put down to each person, and it must be seen that they have the necessary knives and forks. The entree must then be handed with a spoon and fork in readiness in the dish. Entrees are always handed, no matter how simple the dinner. Joints and Game.—Unless these have been carved beforehand, the head waitress must be able to help them neatly from the side and serve them out in small portions, which must be handed round, followed by their various accompaniments. Salad.—A small salad plate should be put to the left of each guest before the salad is carried round. The salad itself should be mixed at the side or in the kitchen, and handed in the bowl with the salad spoon and fork in readiness. If not partaken of, the special plate should be removed. Sweets and other Entremets are usually handed in the same way as entrees, a hot or cold plate with necessary fork or spoon and fork being put before each guest previously. In the case of any sweet requiring cutting, such as tart, this would be served out in portions from the side. Savouries are also handed round in the same way as entrees. Cheese.—It is not customary to serve plain cheese at a formal dinner, but when it is desired it is usually handed in a dish with different divisions containing cheese in small pieces, butter, and one or two different kinds of biscuits. A small plate and knife would be put down to each guest before the dish is handed. Dessert.—The table should be cleared of crumbs and all unnecessary glasses, &c., before dessert is served. Unless the fruit has not been on the table during the dinner it should now be put down, and a dessert plate with a doyley and finger bowl, along with a fruit knife and fork, should be placed before each guest. If ices are served in this course, they should be served first and the ice plates removed before the fruit is handed. Each kind of fruit should be offered in turn, and then replaced on the table. THE SERVING OF WINES Until within a few years ago it was the custom to have a different kind of wine to accompany each course at a dinner, and the choice of these was a very complicated affair. Modern diners have, however, reduced the number considerably, and it is quite usual nowadays to serve only one or two kinds throughout the meal. The fashion used to be to offer sherry with soup, olaret or Burgundy with the entrees and removes, champagne with the game and entremets, port or Madeira with dessert, and liqueurs with the ices and after coffee. Sometimes, too, a white Rhine wine, Chablis. or Sauterne, was offered with