COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 20 the ground, and this also does away with the necessity of having a slab on which to place the stove for the sake of protection. The size chosen must depend upon the amount of cooking to be done and the oven space required, and also upon the size of the kitchen. It is a mis- take to have one larger than necessary, as it always means a greater consumption of gas to heat the oven, &e. The price of gas stoves runs from about £4 to £12 and more according to size, while they can also be hired at a rental of about 2s. 3d. per quarter and upwards. In fact, in many cases it is better to hire than to purchase, as the gas company not only supply the stove, but keep it in repair, and will change it when desired for one of another description. By this means one can have the ad- vantage of any recent improvements. If the whole stove is not required, and the oven part would be of little or no use, a small griller, or Gas Boiling Bing even a gas ring, is often a great comfort and saving. It can be placed on the top of the range, or on a small table in the scullery, and will often save the keeping up of a fire for the sake of boiling a kettle or doing some light cooking in the evening. A little griller would also be found a great boon in Breakfast Cooker the morning when an early breakfast has to be prepared, as it will not only boil a kettle, but make toast or grill fish or bacon at the same time. A very nice griller and boiler can be bought for 7s. 6d. or 8s. 6d., while a small boiling ring will only cost 2s. or 3s. plus the india-rubber tubing (6d. to 9d. per foot) required for attaching it to a gas bracket. Placing the Stove.—A gas stove should be placed in as good a light as possible and out of a draught. It is very important to have it properly fitted up, and to see that there is the necessary ventilation. The work should be put into the hands of a capable workman, because unless the pipe to which the stove is connected is of the right size and there is sufficient pressure of gas, the stove will not work properly. The larger ones, too, will require a venti- lating flue into a wall or chimney to carry off the fumes of combustion. It is sometimes a good plan to have a separate meter for the gas stove in order to regulate the consumption of gas. HOW TO USE A GAS STOVE It is very important that the working of the gas stove should be thoroughly understood, otherwise there may be needless waste of gas and many spoilt dishes. The gas companies give special demonstrations, all over the country, at which the working of the various stoves is fully explained and a cookery lesson given at the same time. Sometimes, also, they will send out lady demonstrators to private houses to show how each part of a gas stove should be used in order to secure the best possible results for the smallest consumption of gas. The hints given below may be of use to those who cannot avail themselves of these special lessons. Every gas stove is provided with several burners on the top, and each burner has a special tap in connection with it. There will also be a special tap for the oven. A taper is preferable to matches for lighting the gas. Do not turn on more taps than are actually re- quired at one time, and be careful to turn off the gas directly you have finished using it. When about to use the oven, open the door first, turn on the gas, and then apply the light. Be sure that all the little burners inside are lighted and on both sides. If they should become clogged with grease or other matter, the little holes must be cleared with a needle or fine wire. Never keep the gas burning longer than is necessary—for instance, when once the contents of a kettle or saucepan have come to the boil the merest flicker of light will keep them simmering. The large round burner should not be used when the smaller one is sufficient. Then, again, when the griller is being used a saucepan or kettle of water should always be placed on the top to utilise the top heat as well as that of underneath. Gas may also be economised by using a steamer or patent cooker (see p. 208) in which several different articles can be cooked one above the other with only one jet of gas underneath. It is also a waste of gas to use heavy saucepans, as they require an unnecessary consumption of gas to bring them to the boil. Steel, aluminium, and enamelled saucepans are all suitable, also the fireproof china and the glazed earthenware ones. The saucepans must also be clean at the foot; if there is a coating of soot or black grease it acts as a non-conductor of heat, and this again will cause a waste of gas. It is always better, if possible, to keep a separate set of saucepans for a gas stove and not to use them indiscriminately for a gas cooker and a coal stove. The flame of gas must not be allowed to blaze up the sides of a saucepan, but only underneath, any- thing beyond this is simply waste. When a saucepan has to be left boiling a long time without attention, as in the case of a stew, it is a good plan to place an asbestos mat under- neath it. This will ensure even and regular cook- ing and avoid the annoyance of liquids boiling over. These mats are very inexpensive, costing about 6d. each, and can be used equally well on a kitchen range. When once the oven has been properly heated the fight should for most purposes be turned down half-way, and in some cases even lower. Then the