490 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD with the banana mousse. First prepare the choco- late ice : Chocolate Ice.—Make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and sugar. The amount of sugar will depend on the kind of chocolate used; care must be taken not to make the mixture too sweet or it will not freeze properly. Allow the custard to cool and then freeze it. Dissolve the chocolate in a small quantity of water or milk, and, if not perfectly smooth, strain through muslin. Add this to the custard when frozen, and mix it well in. If frozen along with the custard the chocolate loses its colour. Banana Mousse. — To prepare this, rub the bananas through a hair sieve, weigh the pulp, and allow an equal weight of icing sugar. Mix the sugaB and pulp together with a wooden spoon, then add the lemon juice, rum, and the same volume of whipped cream as of purge, about 1 gill. Stir all lightly together and the mixture is ready. To Make the Borribe.—Take a bombe mould, place it on broken ice and salt to make it very cold. Then line the mould quickly with the chocolate ice cream and fill up with the banana mixture. Cover with a piece of white paper and then put on the lid of the mould. Close round the joins with lard or margarine and bury the mould in ice and salt for 2 hours or longer. When required, turn out and serve in the usual way. Note.—Other bombes may be made in the same way by varying the flavouring of the ice which lines the mould and using a different kind of fruit for the mousse—for example, coflee ice with apricot mousse, vanilla ice with strawberry mousse, lemon ice with raspberry mousse, and so on. Other Bombes Borribe Americaine.—Line a bombe mould with strawberry ice cream and fill up the centre with orange-water ice. Bombe Delicieuse.—Line the mould with apricot ice cream, and fill up with vanilla ice flavoured with liqueur. Bombe Dlplomate.—A lining of vanilla ice cream and a filling of fruits soaked in liqueur. Bombe Marie Louise.—Line the mould with rasp- berry and fill up with vanilla ice cream. Borribe Napolitaine.—Vanilla, strawberry, and pistachio nut ice cream set in layers. Bombe Royale.—A mixture of vanilla and straw- berry ice cream, decorated when serving with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. 2240. Creme de Fromage Glace 2 oz. Parmesan and 1 oz. Gruyere cheese. 1 gill aspic jelly. 1 gill double cream. Cayenne. Watercress. Grate the two kinds of cheese very finely. Melt the aspic without making it too warm, and whip it until light and frothy. Mix the cheese with the whipped jelly, and then add the cream also whipped. Season to taste. Pour the mixture into a Neapolitan ice box and freeze at least 2 horns. When required, turn out, cut in slices, and serve in small lace-edged papers garnished with a small sprig of watercress. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be moulded in small fancy-shaped moulds, or in little souffle dishes. 2241. Creme de Jambon Glace Make in the same way as Creme de Fromage Glace, using 3 or 4 oz. finely-chopped ham instead of the grated cheese, and colour pink with two or three drops of carmine. Set in any small fancy- shaped moulds and freeze at least 2 hours. When required, turn out on a bed of chopped aspic and garnish with some pretty salad. Or, the mixture may be frozen and served in little paper souffle cases. SORBETS A sorbet is a half-frozen water ice, which is served directly before the roast at a dinner. It is also fashionable at present to serve a delicately flavoured sorbet at an afternoon tea or tennis party. Its preparation is quite simple and may easily be undertaken by the unprofessed cook. The foundation of a sorbet is always a water ice of some kind frozen to a smooth, creamy consist- ency, with the addition of whipped whites of eggs and of one or more kinds of liqueur. They should be served in pretty ice cups or glasses. Sherbets and punches are both similar to the sorbet. 2242. Lemon Sorbet (Sorbet au Citron) 1 pt. lemon water ice. \ wine-glassful rum. 1 wine-glassful maras- 2 table-sps. mixed fruits chino. Cut the fruit in small pieces and marinade it in the liqueur and rum. Half freeze the lemon water ice and stir in the fruits, &c. ; freeze a little longer, but do not make the mixture hard. 2243. Red-currant and Raspberry Sorbet (Sorbet aux Groseilles et Framboises) 1 pt. red currant water I 1 gill Curasao. ice. I A few ripe raspberries. Freeze the ice until smooth, but not too hard. Stir in the cura9ao and serve garnished with rasp- berries which have been sprinkled with sugar and placed on ice until cold. 2244. Ginger-ale Sorbet 1 qt. ginger ale. £ lb. preserved cherries. Juice of one lemon. 1 tea-sp. chopped mint. Juice of 1 orange. Put the ginger ale, fruit juice, and sugar into a freezing pot and half freeze them. Then add the mint and cherries ; freeze again for a few minutes and serve in sorbet glasses.