140 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 460. Cauliflower Fritters (Beignets de Choufleur) 1 cooked oauliflower. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. 1 chopped shallot. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Frying batter. First make the batter according to directions given in Recipe 1861, and let it stand. Take some cauli- flower that has not been overcooked and break it into neat-sized pieces. Mix the oil and vinegar on a deep plate with the chopped ingredients and a little seasoning. Put the pieces of cauliflower into this and let them stand for 1 hour, turning them occasionally. Then drain them lightly, dip them into the frying batter and fry in deep fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well on kitchen paper and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them and garnish with fried parsley. Note.—Cauliflower fritters are frequently used as a garnish for other dishes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 461. Cauliflower a lTtalienne (Choufleur & lTtalienne) 1 cooked cauliflower. J pt. tomato sauce. 2 table-sp. chopped mush- rooms. 2table-sps. cooked tongue. 1 table-sp. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. Have ready \ pint tomato sauce or puree and break the cauliflower into small pieces. There should be a large breakfast-cupful. Grease a fire- proof dish and arrange in it the cauliflower and tomato sauce in layers, sprinkling them with the chopped mushrooms and tongue. When all is in, coat the top with the bread-crumbs and cheese mixed, lay on some small pieces of butter and bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. Serve at once in the dish in which it was cooked. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 462. Cauliflower it la Polonaise (Choufleur a la Polonaise) 1 cauliflower. 2 table-sps. white bread- J hard-boiled egg. crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. 2 oz. butter. chopped parsley. Cook the cauliflower, but not too much, drain it well and press it gently in a cloth to make it a nice round shape. Then place it in the centre of a vegetable dish and sprinkle it with a mixture of chopped parsley, chopped white of egg, and sieved yolk. Keep it warm over hot water. Melt the butter in a saucepan and let it become slightly brown, put in the bread-crumbs and fry them slowly until a golden brown. This sauce must not be made too thick, the browned bread- crumbs ought to float in the butter. Pour it over the cauliflower and sprinkle with more of the chopped mixture. Note.—This is a good way of serving a cauliflower that is past its best. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 463. Cauliflower a la Villeroi (Choufleur a la Villeroi) 1 cooked cauliflower. Good white sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Take some cauliflower that is if anything a little undercooked and break it into sprays. Dip these into some rich white sauce (Sauce Villeroi, Recipe 746), lay them on a plate and put them in a cool place until set. Then toss these coated pieces of cauliflower in some very fine bread-crumbs, brush them over with beaten egg and toss again in bread- crumbs. Fry a light brown colour in deep fat, drain them well and serve piled up on a hot dish, garnished with sprigs of parsley. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 464. Cauliflower SouffR, 1 cooked cauliflower. 2 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 (Souffffi de Choufleur) 1 \ gills milk. Seasoning. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. The remains of any cold cooked cauliflower will do for this dish. There should be a good breakfast- cupful. Break the cauliflower into small pieces, and peel the tomatoes and cut them in very thin slices. Arrange the cauliflower and tomato in layers in a greased pie dish or souffle dish, seasoning them with pepper and salt. A little finely chopped shallot may also be added if wished. Then make a souffffi mixture to pour over this. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then draw the pan to one side, and pour in the milk. Return to the fire, and stir until boiling. Boil 2 or 3 minutes, and re- move the pan from the fire. Add the yolks of the two eggs, season with salt and cayenne, and mix well. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth on a plate, and stir them lightly in with an iron spoon. Pour this mixture over the cauliflower, sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs and lay on a few small pieces of butter. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Serve at once in the dish in which it has been cooked. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 465. Cauliflower Souffle, 2 2 eggs. White pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 cupful cooked cauli- flower. 1 cupful white sauce. 1 table-sp. grated cheese. The remains of cooked cauliflower and sauce may be used for this. Warm the sauce and add to it the grated cheese, yolks of eggs and necessary seasoning. Stir over the fire for a minute or two, but do not allow the contents of the saucepan to boil. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add the cauliflower broken in small pieces. Stir it lightly in and add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Celery (C61eri) This is one of the most useful of vegetables, and it can be eaten both raw and cooked. It is perhaps best when eaten raw, nice white stalks, crisp after the first touch of frost, eaten with bread and butter and cheese, or else shred and mixed with salad. Celery is also very good cooked in various ways, and is most valuable as a flavouring vegetable for soups and stews. The green tops and coarser