SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 199 Beat the contents with a fork or small whisk until they are thick and creamy, but do not allow them to boil. Serve at once. Note.—This sauce may be coloured with carmine if wished. 817. Whipped Raspberry Sauce (Sauce aux Framboises) 2 table-sps. raspberry 2 yolks of eggs. syrup. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 2 table-sps. water. 812. Nut Sauce (Sweet) Make in the same way as Hard Sauce, adding to it 2 table-spoonfuls finely chopped or ground nuts and 1 or 2 stiffly beaten whites of eggs. 813. Orange Sauce, 1 (Sauce a 1’Orange) | pt. water. 1 large orange. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. 4 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. sugar. Grate the rind off the orange and rub it into the sugar. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, add the water and stir until boiling. Then add the sugar and strained juice of the orange, and cook 2 or 3 minutes. Now remove the sauce- pan from the fire, and when the sauce is off the boil stir in the yolks of eggs quickly, and pour at once into a hot sauce-boat or tureen. Note.—A little sherry or brandy may be added if wished. 814. Orange Sauce, 2 (Cheaper) Make according to directions given for Lemon Sauce, substituting orange for lemon. 815. Peach Sauce (Sauce aux Peches) Tinnedpeaches(6pieces) 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 4 pt. water. 1 dessert-sp. arrowroot. A few drops of carmine. Mix the arrowroot with the water, put them into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Sieve the peaches and add them to the arrowroot with sugar to taste, and just sufficient carmine to make the sauce a peachy colour. Simmer slowly until smooth, strain, and use hot or cold. Note.—A little wine or liqueur may be added if liked. Peach sauce can also be made in the same way as Apricot Sauce (Recipe 774), or as Cold Fruit Sauce (Recipe 796). 816. Pine-apple Sauce (Sauce a 1’Ananas) 1 gill pine-apple syrup. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 gill water. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. A few drops of carmine. Pieces of pine-apple. Strain 1 gill of the syrup from a tin of pine-apple into a saucepan and add to it the water, sugar, and lemon juice. Boil all together for 5 or 10 minutes, and skim if necessary. Add some pine-apple cut in tiny dice, and colour the sauce a pale pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. A little wine may be added if wished. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a saucepan of slowly simmering water. Beat the contents with a fork or small wire whisk until thick and frothy, and serve at once. Notes.—Any other fruit syrup may be used in the same way. Raspberry sauce can also be made according to directions given for strawberry sauce by substituting raspberries for strawberries. 818. Strawberry Sauce (Sauce aux Fralses) 2 oz. fresh butter. J lb. fresh strawberries. 4 oz. castor sugar. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 1 white of egg. Make this sauce according to directions given for Hard Sauce (see Recipe 803), and add the straw- berries mashed to a pulp. Note.—Strawberry sauce can also be made ac- cording to directions given for Raspberry Sauce or for Jam Sauce. 819. Syrup or Treacle Sauce 2 table-sps. syrup or I 1 table-sp. lemon juice, treacle. | 1 gill water. Put the syrup and water into a saucepan, and strain in the lemon juice. Bring to the boil, boil for 10 minutes, and strain. A little ginger or other spice may be added if wished. 820. Vanilla Sauce (Sauce au Vanille) Make either a custard sauce or a sweet white sauce, and flavour it with vanilla. 821. Sweet White Sauce (Sauce a l’Anglaise) 1 oz. butter. j 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 4 oz. flour. 4 pt. milk. | Flavouring. Make in the same way as White Sauce (Recipe 671), adding sugar instead of pepper and salt. Flavour to taste with a little essence or spice. The sauce may be made richer by adding an extra piece of butter or a table-spoonful of cream at the last. 822. Wine Sauce (Sauce au Vin) \ oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. I 1J gills water. 1 oz. sugar. | | gill sherry. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and pour in the water. Then return the pan to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the wine and sugar, and boil two or three minutes longer. Note.—See also German Sauce.