ICES Of late years the ice has become very popular in this country, in fact no dinner-party with any pretence to the name is considered complete without an ice of some kind to give the finishing touch to the menu. At afternoon “ At Homes,” too, ices are very often included in the refreshments provided, whilst at even the smallest of dances they are considered a necessity. Now these ices, if they have always to be ordered from a caterer, are apt to be somewhat expensive luxuries, and for this reason families, where ways and means form an important consideration, have often to restrict themselves in this direction. However, if made at home, there is no need for much expense to be incurred, as many delicious little ices can be produced at very small cost: and if one goes in for entertaining to even a small extent, it will be found a decided economy to invest in a simple ice machine. Beyond this there is very little further required in the way of utensils, unless more elaborate ices and ice puddings are wanted. As regards trouble, the making of an ice is just as simple as that of making many a jelly or cream, and it is certainly easier than the making of a cake or pastry, which requires so much attention in the firing. Ices, too, are nearly always acceptable, and they have the great advantage of being able to be prepared beforehand; and beyond the actual serving or turning out they require no attention at tho hour of dinner. PRELIMINARY TO ICE MAKING Freezing Machines The most primitive form of freezing machine consists of a milk can with a tight-fitting lid placed in a small bath or pail and packed round with ice and salt. The mixture to be frozen is placed in the milk can and then this is kept in motion by turning it round and round with the hand until the mixture inside becomes sufficiently frozen. The can will require to be opened from time to time and the mixture scraped down from the sides in order to make it freeze evenly. This method, however, might do very well for once or twice, or for an amusement, but it is tedious at the best, and not by any means always successful. An advance on this was the simple pewter pot, placed in a wooden pail provided with a hole and plug for drawing off the water from the ice as it melted, but this also had to be turned round and round for an indefinite time, and the pot opened occa- sionally. With the more up-to-date machines the freezing is all done by the simple turning of a handle, and the process is a very simple one. There are quite a number of inexpensive machines now on the market, and a very good practical one for family use (2 quarts) can be bought for 8s. or 10s. The working of the different machines varies somewhat; with some a freezing mixture is used, and with others a mixture of ice and coarse salt, but full directions for use are issued with each special make of freezer. The ordinary modern form of freezing machine consists of a wooden pail into which a freezing- pot is fixed and packed round with crushed ice and salt. The inside of the pot is provided with a dash-wheel or paddle, and both this and the pot itself are moved round and round by means of a 478 handle on the side of the pail. In this way the contents of the pot are kept in motion, and uniform freezing is the result. The pail is also provided with a small hole a little way below the top of the can, which allows waste water above that height to ran off. 'v Freezing Fail Care of the Freezing Machine.—It is most im- portant that a freezing machine should be kept very fresh and clean, unless attention is paid to this point the ice-making will not be a success. The can and dash-wheel should be thoroughly scalded and then well rinsed in very cold water before use. Then, when the machine has been used, every part must be well washed and dried, so as to leave them sweet and clean, and the machine must be stored in a dry and airy place. From time to time a little oil should be put on the working parts of the machine. An Ice Cave This is by no means the expensive article it used to be, when £3 and upwards had to be given for an ice cave of a very small size—from 25s. to 30s. will now buy one that is quite sufficient for all