COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 44 and a little water or stock, add it to the soup and stir until boiling. Cook a few minutes longer, add more seasoning if necessary, and a squeeze of orange or lemon juice just before serving. A little sherry may also be added if wished. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Notes.—If the stock used is not well flavoured, some pieces of vegetable should be cooked in the soup and then strained out when the soup is sieved. Sheep’s kidneys may be used for making this soup, from 6 to 8 would be required for the above amount, or 5 or 6 kidneys and a small piece of beef. They will take a shorter time to cook. Some- times the pieces of kidney are pounded and sieved, and added to the soup in the form of a puree instead of in small pieces. In this case 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of rice or oatmeal may be cooked in the soup and sieved along with the kidney. Any good flavouring sauce may be used instead of ketchup, but care must be taken not to add too much. A garnish of vegetables cut in fancy shapes is sometimes added to this soup. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. 14. Kidney and Tomato Soup (Potage de Rognons aux Tomates) I ox kidney. II oz. dripping. 1 onion. 3 pts. water. 1 tin of tomatoes. Salt to taste. A bunch of herbs. 4 cloves. 12 black peppercorns. £ tea-sp. celery seed. A blade of mace. 1 table-sp. crushed tap- ioca. A pinch of sugar. Prepare the kidney as in last recipe and fry it in the dripping with the onion cut in small pieces. When well browned, pour in the water and tomatoes and stir well for a few minutes. When boiling add the herbs and other seasoning and cook the soup slowly from 3 to 4 hours, or until the kidney is quite tender. Any scum or grease which rises on the surface must be carefully removed. When ready strain the soup through a fine sieve into a basin, remove the pieces of kidney and rub the tomato pulp through, keeping back the skins and seeds. Remove any grease from the top of the soup and return it to a clean saucepan to reheat. Rinse the pieces of kidney and add them to it along with any more seasoning that is necessary. When boil- ing sprinkle in the crushed tapioca and cook a few minutes longer, or until the tapioca turns quite clear. Serve the soup with croutons of fried or toasted bread, or with a dish of well-boiled rice handed separately. Time to cook, about 4 hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. 15. Mock £ lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. \ lb. gravy beef. 1 oz. beef dripping. 1 oz. flour. 1 qt. water. 1 or 2 onions. 1 cupful each of carrot and turnip. Hare Soup 1 teasp. celery seed. 12 black peppercorns. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 tablesp. rice. 1 glass port wine. I dessert-sp. red currant jelly. Porcemeat balls. Cut the meat and liver in small pieces and roll them in the flour. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, put in the meat and liver with the onion cut small. and brown these well over the fire. Then add the water gradually and bring to the boil. Simmer for a few minutes, skimming if necessary, and add the carrot and turnip cut small, the rice well washed and spices tied in muslin. Let the whole boil slowly for 2 hours and strain through a wire sieve. If time permits, the vegetables and some of the liver should be rubbed through the sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan, bring to the boil again and add necessary seasoning, port wane and red- currant jelly. Put some forcemeat balls (see Recipe 1288) in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Time to cook, 24 hours. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, 3 pints. 16. Mock Kidney Soup £ lb. sheep’s or calf's liver. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 1 potato. I turnip. Seasoning. 1 qt. water or meat boilings. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. beef dripping. 1 table-sp. ketchup. Wash the liver and let it lie in salt and water for half an hour. Then lift it out, dry it in a cloth and cut half of it in small pieces. Put the flour on a plate and toss the small pieces of liver in it, coating them well. Melt the dripping in a sauce- pan, when smoking hot put in the floured liver and stir it over the fire until it is nicely browned. If any flour is left on the plate, sprirdde it over the liver and brown that also. Pour in the water or meat boilings and stir well for a few minutes. Add a little salt, and when boiling skim thoroughly. Prepare the vegetables, cut them in small pieces suitable for serving in the soup (there should be about 1 teacupful of each), and add them now with the other half of the liver in one piece. Simmer slowly from 2 to 2| horns until the vegetables are quite tender. Then lift out the larger piece of liver, grate it, and return to the soup, adding also the ketchup, pepper, and more salt if necessary. Simmer a few minutes longer and serve. Note.—If the soup becomes too thick while cook- ing, more water or meat boilings must be added. Time to cook, hours. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. Quantity, 3 pints. 17, Mulligatawny Soup (Potage a la Mulligatawny) 1 \ oz. flour or rice flour. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. curry paste. \ pt. hot milk. A small bunch of herbs. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. 14 lbs. lean mutton or 1 small rabbit, ljoz. butter or dripping. 3 pts. cold water. 2 oz. ham trimmings. 2 onions. 1 sour apple or a stick of rhubarb. A small piece of carrot and turnip. Wipe the meat and cut it in small pieces away from the bone. If using a rabbit, wash it well, and let it soak for half an hour in cold water with a little salt. Lift it out, dry, and cut into small joints. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, add to it the vegetables and apple cut in small pieces, and cook them for a few minutes over the fire. Add the curry powder, flour, and chutney, and mix well; then the meat, water, herbs, pepper and salt. Mix well for a few minutes and then