SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES • 261 oven, basting the meat occasionally with the liquid. Do not overcook the meat, it ought to be slightly red in the centre when cut. When ready, lift it on to a hot dish, remove the fastening, and either leave it whole, or cut the number of slices required. Garnish round with small pieces of braised lettuce, stuffed mushrooms and small stuffed tomatoes; a few sauted potatoes may be put at the two ends if wished. Strain the sauce, remove any grease, and pour it round the dish. Time to cook, 1J to 11 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost, 4s. 6d. 1070. Fillets of Beef with Horse-Radish (Tournedos de Bceuf au Raifort) 1 lb. fillet of beef. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Garnish and Sauce. | oa. butter. 4 oz. flour. I gill white stock. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. 2 sticks horse-radish. A squeeze of lemon juice. 5 or 6 mushrooms. Sauce demi-glace. To Prepare the Meat.—Wipe the meat, remove from it all fibres and muscles, and cut it into neat round pieces f inch in thickness and from 2£ to 3 inches in diameter. Season them with pepper and salt and, a few minutes before serving, cook them quickly in butter. Prom 7 to 8 minutes will be sufficient time to allow, as they should be red in the centre when cut. To Prepare the Garnish.—Shred a little of the horse-radish very finely, and grate the remainder. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and stock. Add the grated horse-radish, and allow it to cook slowly for 10 minutes. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of eggs and lemon juice and any other seasoning required. Choose 5 or 6 mushrooms of equal size, allowing one for each fillet of beef; trim them and either grill or cook them in the oven. Pile a little of the horse-radish mixture in the centre of each, and place a little shredded horse-radish on the top. Prepare also some sauce demi-glace according to Recipe 719. (Both sauce and garnish should be thought of before cooking the meat.) To Serve.—Arrange the fillets in a neat circle on a dish ; they may be placed on a crouton if wished, stand a mushroom on the top of each, and pour sauce demi-glace round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1071. Tournedos de Bceuf a la Parisienne 1 lb. fillet of beef. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Garnish and Sauce. 4 or 5 artichoke bottoms Green peas.v 4 or 5 croutons of bread. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 gill bearnaise sauce. _ Prepare and cook the fillets as above. Use tinned or bottled artichoke bottoms, allowing one for each fillet. Drain and rinse them, and then heat them for a few minutes in butter, season- ing to taste. Fill them with some nicely cooked green peas or asparagus points, piling these dome- shaped in the centre. Have ready also a crouton of bread for each fillet and bearnaise sauce made according to Recipe 708. To Serve.—Place each tournedos or fillet on a crouton of bread, and arrange them alternately on a dish with the artichoke bottoms. Mask the meat with a little of the sauce, and sprinkle it lightly with chopped parsley. Pour the remainder of the sauce round. Note.—Potato noisettes (Recipe 562) may be served in the centre. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1072. Tournedos de Bceuf a la Portugaise 4 or 5 small fillets. 1 oz. butter. Garnish and Sauce. 4 or 5 stuffed toma toes. Croutons of bread. 1 glass white wine. 1 gill tomato sauce. Seasoning. Chopped parsley. Prepare and cook the fillets as in Recipe 1070. Prepare also a small stuffed tomato for each (Recipe 586), and a nicely fried crouton of bread. Place each fillet on a crouton of bread and arrange them neatly on a hot dish with a tomato on the top of each. Keep this warm over hot water whilst preparing the sauce. Add the wine to the saucepan in which the fillets were cooked, and let it reduce, rubbing down any juice from the meat into it. Then pour in the tomato sauce, which must not be very thick, cook for a few minutes, and strain round the dish. Sprinkle with a little parsley and serve very hot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1073. Filets de Bceuf a la Du Barry 4 or 5 fillets of beef. Seasoning. Oil or melted butter. A potato border. 4 or 5 artichoke bottoms Cooked cauliflower. Sauce Mornay. Grated Parmesan. Prepare the fillets as in Recipe 1070, making them about § inch in thickness and three inches in diameter. Dip these fillets in salad oil or melted butter, and season them with pepper and salt. Heat the gridiron or grill, place the steaks upon it, and grill them 4 or 5 minutes on each side. When sufficiently cooked, arrange them neatly on a border of potato (see Recipe 543), place the follow- ing garnish round, and serve all very hot. To Prepare the Garnish.—Use tinned or bottled artichoke bottoms, rinse and dry them and fill them with small sprigs of cooked cauliflower, piled high. Coat them with thick sauce Mornay, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and place in a quick oven until brown. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1074. Filets de Bceuf a la Maryland Grill 4 or 5 fillets of beef as in last recipe, and serve them on small round croutons of fried bread. Place a roll of grilled bacon on the top of each, and garnish with quarters of bananas which have been egged and bread-crumbed and fried. Serve green com a la creme (Recipe 503) separately. 1075. Filets de Bceuf au Vert-Pre Grill fillets of beef as in Recipe 1073. When sufficiently cooked, arrange them neatly on a hot dish with a small pat of maitre d’hotel or anchovy butter on the top of each. Garnish with fine potato straws and small bunches of seasoned watercress. Note.—Pommes de terre souffles may be used instead of potato straws.