COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 154 skin. Put them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil them for 10 minutes, then strain and throw them into cold water. When cool enough to handle, remove one or two of the outer coatings from the onions and scoop out the centres, making a hole large enough to receive about a table-spoonful of stuffing. Chop up these onion trimmings, put them into an earthenware casserole with the butter or dripping and gill of stock and make them hot over the fire. Then make the stuffing. Use Stuffed Onions chicken, tongue, ham, or any nicely cooked meat, and chop sufficient to make about 2 table-spoonfuls. Put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs, parsley, and a few button mushrooms finely chopped. Add enough brown or tomato sauce to bind all together and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Fill up the centres of the onions with this mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Place them when ready in the casserole with the minced onion, cover with greased paper, put on the lid and cook in the oven or by the side of the fire until the onions are quite tender. Serve them in the casserole, or on a hot dish with the minced onion and gravy round. Note.—If an entirely vegetarian dish is required use grated nuts instead of the meat, and vegetable instead of meat stock. This makes a very good supper or luncheon dish. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 524. Glazed Onions (Oignons Glacees) Small silver onions. I Brown stock. Salt. Salad oil. I Castor sugar. Skin the onions and wipe them very dry in a cloth. Put a little salad oil into a saute pan or shallow stewpan and make it hot over the fire. Put in the onions, sprinkle them with castor sugar and toss them over and over until they are well browned on all sides. Then pour off any superfluous oil and pour in sufficient brown stock to barely cover the onions. Add a little salt if necessary and allow the onions to cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven. When they are nearly ready, allow the stock to boil down quickly until it forms a glaze on the onions, turning them over gently until they are evenly coated. These may be served as a garnish for various meat dishes. 525. Puree of Onions (Puree Soubise) 2 or 3 Spanish onions. I 3 table-sps. bechamel 2 table-sps. cream. I sauce. Seasoning. Prepare the onions, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and a little salt, bring to the boil, boil for 5 minutes, and drain. Then slice the onions thinly and put them into a saucepan with some thick bechamel or other good white sauce. Put the lid on the pan and let them stew by the side of the fire until quite soft. The onions must on no account be allowed to take colour. When ready, rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Return the puree to a clean saucepan, season to taste and add a little cream at the last. Note.—This is used as a garnish for certain entrees. It is also a good accompaniment for grilled steaks and chops. Parsnips (Panais) The parsnip resembles the carrot in appearance, although it is much lighter in colour. It has a distinct taste of its own, which is by no means liked by everyone, but it is a wholesome and nourishing vegetable and is fairly rich in both starch and sugar. Parsnips are not supposed to be in perfection until they have had a good touch of frost, and then they must be well cooked to make their somewhat woody fibre digestible. They are usually served as an accompaniment to salt fish or salt meat, but they are also good as a flavouring vegetable, in stews and in soups. Besides the recipes given below, parsnips can be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking carrots. 526. Parsnips, To Boil To Prepare the Parsnips.—Wash and scrape the parsnips from the thick end downwards until all the brown outside is removed. If old, it may be necessary to peel them thinly. Cut off the tops and throw them into cold water as they are pre- pared, to prevent discoloration. Then cut them in halves or quarters according to size. To Boil the Parsnips.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, throw in the prepared parsnips, bring to boiling-point and cook slowly until the roots are tender. Then drain. Or, if the parnsips are being served as a garnish for boiled meat, they may be boiled or steamed along with the meat. Time to cook, § to 1 hour. 527. Parsnips & la Maitre d’Hotel (Panais a la Maitre d’Hotel) 2 or 3 parsnips. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. Prepare and cook the parsnips as in last recipe, and drain them thoroughly. Melt the butter in the saucepan, return the parsnips to it, sprinkle them with the parsley, lemon juice, and seasoning, and toss all over the fire for a few minutes. Serve very hot. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 528. Mashed Parsnips Prepare and cook some parsnips as in Recipe 526, or take the remains of cold cooked parsnips, mash them until free from lumps or put them through a vegetable presser. Reheat this puree in a sauce- pan, adding to it a little butter, or some milk or cream. Season with white pepper and salt, and make all thoroughly hot. Serve piled up neatly in a hot vegetable dish.