COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 16 stove in small quantities when the fire is very bright and hot enough to consume them quickly. If refuse is put on to a low fire in a damp condition it will cause a most unpleasant smell. Nothing must be thrown out or burnt except that which is absolutely of no value. In some houses the dustbin is one of the most fruitful sources of waste. HOW TO GET RID OF FLIES, BEETLES, AND OTHER PESTS At various times of the year unwelcome guests force their way into our kitchens and larders, not to speak of the other rooms in the house. Some are more unwelcome than others because they bring dirt and often disease in their train. Chief among these are the house-fly and the blue-bottle fly, the beetle, the red ant, to say nothing of rats and mice. Absolute cleanliness is one of the best preven- tives against vermin of all kinds; then all food must be kept covered, there must be nothing left for them to feed upon. These precautions, however, are not always sufficient to keep intruders away, and other remedies have to be resorted to. Flies.—When flies are numerous it is most im- portant to keep all food, and especially milk, care- fully covered. Flies are not only carriers of dust and dirt, but often of disease germs as well, and when they crawl over our food these are left behind to taint and sometimes even to poison it. Flies are very fond of laying their eggs along window ledges and in the crevices of the woodwork of the windows and shutters, therefore it is very import- ant to keep these parts thoroughly clean and well dusted, as the eggs should never have a chance of hatching. If flies abound it is a good plan to wash the windows and window ledges with a strong solution of carbolic, or if the smell is an objection, sprinkle with Persian powder at night, and then sweep up in the morning. Fly papers will also catch a number, but they are rather disgusting things to use. They should if possible be put in out-of-the-way places, such as the tops of cupboards. A very simple fly-paper can be made by spreading treacle or honey on brown paper, and sprinkling it with Persian powder or other insect poison. Fly- papers prepared with some sticky substance to which the flies adhere and endure a slow torturing death should be avoided. The blow-fly, which is larger than the common house-fly, is the kind most to be dreaded, as it is a great enemy in the larder. It frequently lays its larvae in meat, which causes it to decompose very quickly. In hot weather all meat should be ex- amined when it is received, and if anything of this kind is suspected it should be carefully washed with a solution of Condy’s fluid and water (see p. 12). Beetles.—These objectionable insects very often infest the ground floor and kitchen premises of our houses. They disappear in the daytime and come out at night through the cracks in the flooring, and they multiply so rapidly that sometimes they can be counted by the thousand. They will attack food of all kinds, and even the leather of boots and shoes. They have a horrible smell too, which hangs about anything they come near. Many different kinds of traps have been invented for catching beetles, and they all serve their purpose for the time being; there are also different kinds of beetle paste which can be used with success, and instructions for using these are given with the different preparations. One of thesimplest remedies, and a very effectual one too, is the liberal use of powdered borax. This should be sprinkled about their haunts and repeated every night until the beetles disappear. Mice.—The best plan is to starve them out. All eatables must be enclosed and nothing left that would supply them with food. A cat or small dog which is a good mouser will also help to hasten their departure. A trap, too, is often very effectual in catching a stray mouse here and there, and in frightening away others. There are many differ- ent kinds, but perhaps the old-fashioned make, which catches the animal alive, are the most humane; others, which are supposed to kill in- stantaneously, often succeed in only half doing it, and so cause unnecessary suffering. There are also different poisons which can be bought for the destruction of mice, of which phos- horous paste is perhaps the best; but care must e taken in using them, and especially if there are domestic animals in the house. Rats.—When rats enter a house, it is often a sign of insanitary drainage, and if that is the case the wrong must be seen to at once, and the neces- sary repairs carried out. Or it may be that the house is in close proximity to a stable, and the rats have made their way into the house through some holes. A trap is sometimes of good service for catching the rats, and directions for baiting them are usually given with each special kind. Poisoning is another method; but this must be done with caution, and especially if there are any domestic animals in the house. Another danger of poison- ing is that the dead bodies of the rats sometimes decompose under the flooring, and cause a very bad smelL A small dog, a terrier, sometimes keeps them away most effectively. If the rats become numerous, a rat-catcher should be employed, who will hunt the rats out with trained ferrets. When once the vermin have been got rid of, all holes by which they have entered should be carefully filled up with cement or plaster. Ants.—These are rarely seen in town houses, but in the country they not infrequently appear. They are very troublesome creatures to get rid of, and sometimes different remedies have to be tried before one succeeds. One of the best is to find the opening through which the ants come, drop in some quicklime, and wash it over with boiling water. A strong solution of carbolic acid or spirits of camphor might also be tried, as ants are very averse to strong smells. Or, again, some petroleum or tobacco juice poured over their nests is some- times effectual. PART II COOKING STOVES AND THEIR MANAGEMENT THE KITCHEN RANGE This is the most important fixture in the kitchen, as it is impossible to do good cooking without an efficient stove.