PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 361 1546. Almond Tart (Gateau d’Amandes) PuS pastry. 2 oz. ground almonds. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. Rum or other flavouring Take about half the quantity of puS pastry given in Recipe 1447, and roll it into two rounds for the top and bottom of the gateau. For the bottom any scraps of the pastry may be used, and the round should be made rather thin. For the top take a good piece of pastry that has only had six rolls and make the round about £ inch in thickness. To Make the Tart.—Pound the almonds in a mortar with the butter, yolks of eggs, and sugar, and flavour with about 1 tea-spoonful rum, or any other flavouring preferred. Wet round the edge of the bottom piece of pastry, spread it with the almond mixture and put the other piece of pastry on the top. Press the edges together, lay a plate or saucepan lid on the top and trim round neatly. Mark the edges with the back of the knife, then mark the top also, making curved lines coming from the centre and without pressing heavily with the knife. Brush the gateau over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven. When ready, dredge with sugar and return to the oven for a minute or two to glaze. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1547. German Tart Pastry. 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. potato flour. 3 oz. butter. 1 oz. castor sugar. | tea-sp. mixed spice. Squeeze of lemon juice. Some cold -water. Mixture. 3 apples. 3 oz. prunes. 2 oz. sugar. Rind of h lemon grated. A little cold water. 1 table-sp. sponge-cake crumbs. First prepare the mixture—peel, core, and slice the apples, and wash the prunes in lukewarm water. Put these into a lined saucepan with the sugar, lemon rind, and a very little cold water. Stew slowly until the apples are quite soft. Then re- move the prunes, take out the stones, cut them in pieces, and return them to the apples. Allow the mixture to cool before using. Make the pastry according to directions given for Short Crust, and divide it into two equal pieces. Wet a dinner plate with cold water and leave it wet. Roll out one of the pieces rather thinly, and line the plate -with it. Sprinkle the sponge-cake crumbs over the foot, and then spread on the mixture. Roll out the other piece of pastry into a round shape for a cover. Wet round the edge of the pastry lining the dish with cold water; lay the other piece of pastry on, and press the edges well together. Trim round with a knife or pair of scissors, and then mark neatly round the edges. Roll out any trimmings of pastry, and cut out some leaves to decorate the top. Make a small hole to let the steam escape, and brush the tart over with a little water or slightly beaten white of egg. Dredge well with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and thoroughly cooked. Serve on the dish on which it is baked. It may be used either hot or cold, and may, if wished, be coated with glace icing. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10<f. 1548. Swiss Apple Tart Pastry. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. cornflour, 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. J tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 yolk of egg. 4 or 5 apples. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. Rind of J lemon. \ penny sponge cake. 1 gill double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Make the pastry according to directions given for Short Crust (Recipe 1439), and roll it out rather thinly. Grease a tart ring 7 or 8 inches in dia- meter, and place it on a greased baking tin. Line this with the pastry, and double the pastry a little way over the rim of the ring at the top, to prevent its slipping down when baking. Prick the bottom of the tart with a fork, line it with greased paper, and half fill with dried haricot beans or crusts of bread. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and thoroughly cooked. Then remove the beans and paper, but allow the pastry to cool before taking off the ring. Peel, core, and slice the apples very thinly. Put them into a lined saucepan with the sugar, butter, the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon, and a very little cold water. Stew carefully until the apples are reduced to a pulp, then rub them through a hair sieve into a basin and let them cool. Place the tart on a round plate or glass dish with a dish paper under it, sprinkle at the foot the sponge cake made into crumbs, and fill it with the apple pulp. Put the cream into a basin, and whisk it with a wire whisk until thick. Sweeten it with castor sugar, and add a few drops of any flavouring that is liked. Pile this on the top of the tart, and decorate with small pieces of preserved fruit, or chopped pistachio nuts. Time to bake, about f hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Another Method Make half as much pastry again as in last recipe, and line the ring with it in the same way. Sprinkle the sponge-cake crumbs at the bottom. Have the apple pulp prepared, and fill up the tart with it. Then roll out the remainder of the pastry the size and shape to cover the top. Wet round the edge of this with cold water and place it on, pressing the two edges well together. Trim neatly with a pair of scissors and make a small hole on the top with a skewer. Bake in a moderate oven about one hour, then allow the tart to cool. Carefully remove the ring and coat the top of the tart with some glace icing (see p. 589), and sprinkle it with pink sugar or chopped pistachio nuts. Place it on a dish with a dish paper under it, and encircle it with a paper frill. 1549. Fruit Vol-au-vent The pastry case for this should be made and baked according to directions given on p. 349. Then there are different methods of filling it with fruit. (1) Take a nice puree or marmalade of fruit, such as a puree of apples, gooseberries, rhubarb, apri- cots, &c., fill the pastry case with this, and pile some whipped and flavoured cream on the top. The puree of fruit should be made fairly thick to pre-