COOKERY EOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 74 minutes and add the cream and more seasoning if necessary. Serve with croutons of fried bread, or a dish of cooked rice or macaroni may be handed separately. Notes.—A little curry powdered, moistened with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, may be added to this soup if liked. Some nice little pieces of rabbit may be lifted out after they have cooked about an hour, cut in strips and then put into the soup as a garnish. Time to cook, 4 hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 21 pints. 167. Cream of Rice Soup (Potage Creme de Riz) 1 qt. chicken or veal stock. 1 gill cream. 2 oz. creme de riz or flour of rice. 1 yolk of egg. A pinch of sugar. A pinch of ground cinnamon. 2 oz. butter. Salt to taste. Any thin white stock will do for this soup, or the water in which a fowl, rabbit, or piece of veal has been boiled. Skim all fat from it and bring it to the boil in a saucepan. Mix the creme de riz with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold stock or water, and when the stock is hot add this to it. Stir until boiling and cook from 10 to 15 minutes, adding the butter in small pieces. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and add the cream and yolk of egg mixed together. Add seasoning to taste, sugar and cinnamon, but do not boil again or the soup will curdle. Strain through a fine strainer into a hot soup tureen and serve with fried croutons of bread. Notes.—The yolk of egg may be omitted. Whole rice or ground rice may be used instead of creme de riz. In this case the soup would require longer cooking, and should be sieved before the cream and egg are added. Time to cook, | hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 168. Sorrel Soup (Potage Creme a l’Oseille) \ lb. picked sorrel. II pts. white stock. 3 gills milk, 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. creme de riz. 1 gill of thin cream. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 slice of bread and butter. Wash the sorrel carefully, cut it up roughly and put it into a saucepan with the butter. Stir over a gentle fire for 5 or 10 minutes, and add the creme de riz and a pinch of sugar. Mix well and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling and let the whole simmer gently for | hour. Rub through a sieve and return the soup to a clean saucepan. Bring to the boil, add the milk and seasoning and boil again. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and strain in the yolks of eggs and cream, stirring all the time. The soup must not boil after these are added. The bread and butter should be cut in small round pieces and browned in the oven. Put these croutes into the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over them. Note.—A little tarragon and chervil cleaned and cut in fine shreds may be added to this soup. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 169. Tapioca Cream Soup (Creme de Tapioca) 2 pts. good white stock. 1J oz. crushed tapioca. 1 gill of thin cream. Pepper and salt. 2 yolks of eggs. Remove any grease from the top of the stock, put it into a saucepan, and bring to the boil over the fire. Then sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring well, and cook from 10 to 15 minutes until the tapioca turns quite clear. Season to taste. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream, draw the pan with the soup in it to the side of the fire and strain these in, stirring all the time. Reheat, but do not boil again, or the soup will curdle. Serve with croutons of fried bread or toast cut in dice. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 170. Tomato and Green Pea Soup 4 pt. shelled green peas. 3 or 4 tomatoes. \ pint water. 1 qt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 gill cooked green peas. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them in slices and put them into a saucepan with the \ pint of green peas (rather old ones will do). Add the water, which, should well cover them, and cook slowly until the vegetables are tender. Then rub as much as pos- sible through a sieve, keeping back the seeds and skins. Return this puree to a clean saucepan, add to it the cornflour mixed to a smooth paste with a little of the stock, and then the remainder of the stock. Bring to the boil, boil for a few minutes, and season to taste. Then add the cooked peas and the butter broken in small pieces. Do not boil again. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Time to cook, 1}: hours. Probable cost, 1,9. lOeZ. Quantity, 2 pints. 171. Veal Cream Soup with Vermicelli (Potage Creme au Vermicelle) 2 lbs. knuckle of veal. 2qts. water, ltea-sp.salt. Flavouring vegetables. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. vermicelli. 1 gill cream. 2 yolks of eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. Wipe the veal, cut it in small pieces and put it into a saucepan with the cold water and a good tea-spoonful of salt. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and add about 2 cupfuls of flavouring vege- tables cut in small pieces, and a small bunch of herbs. Let all simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours, then strain and allow the stock to cool. Next day remove all fat from the top, put the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the butter and vermicelli broken in small pieces and cook it slowly for J hour or until quite soft. Then draw the soup to the side of the fire and stir in the yolks of egg and cream mixed together but do not boil again. Serve very hot with fried croutons of bread. Note.—The veal and vegetables left from making the stock should be put into the stock pot. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours first day, | hour second day. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2\ pints.