POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME <195 Time to roast, to 2 hours. Probable cost, 4s. Notes.—The mould may be decorated with pieces (see p. 210). Trim ofl the ends and serve garnished with parsley or watercress. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 1203. Gateau ol Rabbit (Gflteau de Lapin) I tea-sp. chopped thyme. Grated rind of I lemon. Seasoning. £ oz gelatine. 1 tender rabbit. 1 pt. water. J lb. sausage meat. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. Wash the rabbit carefully and then dry it. Cut the flesh into small neat pieces, removing it all from the bones. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with the water and _a little salt. Allow these to simmer slowly for 1 hour at least and until the liquid is reduced to about half the original quantity. Then strain, dissolve in it the gelatine cut in pieces, and use as stock for the gateau. Cook the rabbit liver in the stock for a few minutes, then chop it finely and mix with it the parsley, thyme, and grated lemon rind. Hard boil the eggs and cut them in slices. When all is pre- pared, take a plain mould, large enough to hold all the ingredients, and commence by arranging a few pieces of hard-boiled egg at the foot. Then put in some rabbit, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle some of the liver, &c., over: then a layer of sausage meat, more egg, and so on until all is in. Do not pack the mould too tightly, but fill up with as much stock from the bones as it will hold. Tie a piece of strong paper over the top and bake in a moderate oven at least one hour, or until the rabbit feels tender when tested with a skewer. Leave until cold, then turn out when wanted and garnish with parsley and pieces of tomato, or with some green salad. Note.—See also Recipe 1213. Probable cost, 2s. 1204. Rabbit Mould 1 small rabbit. J lb. pickled pork. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. 1 pt. light stock. \ oz. gelatine. Seasoning Choose a young and tender rabbit, wash it well and cut it up in pieces. Wash also the pork and put it and the rabbit into a saucepan with the stock. (There should be sufficient stock to cover the meat.) Bring slowly to the boil and skim if necessary. Then add a cupful of carrot, turnip, and onion cut in small pieces and a bunch of herbs. Simmer all slowly until the pork and rabbit are tender, then strain, reserving the liquid. Remove the meat from the rabbit and cut it and the pork in small pieces. Allow the stock to cool, remove all grease from it and reduce it if necessary to | pint, or if, on the contrary, the quantity is short, add more stock or water to make up this amount. Dissolve the gelatine in this J pint of stock and season to taste. Mix the rabbit and pork together and put them into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. (The mould should not be more than three-quarters filled.) Strain in the stock and gelatine and set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. When wanted, turn out and serve garnished with fresh parsley and a few pieces of nice red tomato. of hard-boiled egg before putting in the rabbit, &c. If the pork is very salt, blanch it before using, by putting it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bringing it to the boil slowly and pouring the water away. Probable cost, 2s. 1205. Rabbit Quenelles Make in the same way as Veal Quenelles (Recipe 1099), using some of the best flesh from an un- cooked rabbit instead of the veal. Serve them with tomato, bechamel, or veloute sauce, and any suit- able garnish. 1206. Rabbit Souffle (Souffle de Lapin) Make according to directions given for Chicken Souffle (Recipe 1150), using rabbit instead of chicken. Note Rabbit may also be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking hare. 1207. Stuffed and Roast Hare (Lievre Roti) 1 hare. Seasoning. A little flour. A few slices of fat bacon. £ pt. milk, and fat for basting. Gravy. Hare forcemeat. 1 glass port wine. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. 1 lemon. Choose a young hare, skin and paunch it as directed on p. 291, and then wipe it carefully. Then stuff it with hare forcemeat (Recipe 1269) and sew it up. Now truss it in the same way as directed for Roast Rabbit (Recipe 1190), curling up the tail and fastening it on to the back with a little skewer. Tie some slices of fat bacon over the top, cover with greased paper, especially the head, and roast in a good oven. Baste the hare with the milk and a little dripping to begin with, to mellow the flesh, and, when this has dried up, continue the basting with more dripping or butter. The basting from first to last is very important, to prevent the outside skin becoming hard. When nea rly ready,remove the paper and bacon, and dredge the back of the hare with flour. Continue the roasting until the flesh is brown and crisp. Serve on a hot dish, carefully removing all skewers and trussing threads. Make some thickened gravy in the roasting tin (see p. 208), adding to it the port wine and red-currant jelly. Strain some of it round the hare and serve the rest separately in a sauce boat. Garnish the dish with rolls of bacon and cut lemon, or a little finely shred horse-radish. Bread sauce may also be served separately if desired, and red-currant or any other acid jelly. Notes.—Sometimes the hare is marinaded before being stuffed, in order to moisten and flavour the flesh. Make the marinade according to Recipe 1199, and let the hare soak in it for several hours, turning it every now and then. The back of the hare may be larded before being roasted, or the inside may be lined with thin slices of fat bacon before putting in the stuffing. If port wine is objected to in the sauce, the juice of an orange may be added. Sour cream is sometimes used for basting a hare, it gives it a very mellow flavour.