247 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES salt, boil 10 minutes and strain. Then return the oabbage to the saucepan, again cover it with boiling water or stock, and allow it to cook until it is tender and the liquid has almost evaporated. Prick the sausages and fry a few minutes just to brown them on all sides. Then add them to the cabbage with seasoning to taste, and cook both together about £ hour. Serve very hot, the cabbage in the centre of the dish and the sausages round. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1 d. 1005. Toad in a Hole £ lb. sausages. Salt. Pepper. Batter. Scald the sausages and remove the skins. Then split them lengthways and cut across, making four pieces. Grease a small Yorkshire pudding tin, lay in the pieces of sausage and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Make the batter as directed in Recipe 1861, allowing it to stand for £ hour if pos- sible ; pour it over the sausages and bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. Then cut in pieces and serve at once on a hot dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. Bacon, To Cook See under Breakfast Dishes, 1006. Boiled Ham (Jambon Bouilli) Ham. | Glaze or browned bread- Water. | crumbs. First soak the ham in lukewarm water for several hours. If it is very dry and highly smoked or salted, from twelve to twenty-four hours will be necessary, and the water ought to be changed once or twice during this time. Then scrape the ham, removing all rust and any discoloured parts, and weigh it. Put it into a saucepan with suffi- cient lukewarm water to cover it (if the ham is very salt, cold water will be better), bring to the boil, and skim well. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the stove and simmer slowly until the ham is cooked. Allow from 25 to 30 minutes to the pound, according to the kind and thickness of the ham. It is ready when the skin will peel off easily. A bunch of sweet herbs and 1 or 2 bay-leaves may be boiled with the ham, and some- times a pint of ale or cider is added to give a mellow flavour. If the ham is to be served cold let it cool in the water in which it was cooked, then take it up, remove the rind, and trim the fat neatly with a knife. Brush it all over with liquid glaze or strew thickly with browned bread-crumbs. If the latter are used it will be better to put the ham in the oven for a few minutes in order to melt the surface slightly and make the crumbs adhere. Fasten a paper frill round the knuckle of the ham and serve it garnished with parsley. If the ham is to be served hot for luncheon or dinner, lift it from the water as soon as it is cooked, remove the skin and trim it. Then brush it over with liquid glaze, or coat it with bread raspings and place it in the oven for a few minutes to become brown and crisp. While the ham is in the oven it may be basted with a little sherry or marsala. Spinach, Brussels sprouts, greens, or green peas, &c., may be served separately with hot boiled ham. 1007. Baked Ham Prepare the ham and soak it as for boiling. Then saw oS the knuckle bone, and if the ham is large boil it for 1 hour according to directions given in last recipe. Meanwhile prepare a plain aste made with flour and water. About 1J lbs. our will be required for a medium-sized ham, and roll it out on a pastry board. Drain the ham well from the water, dry it, and wrap it up in the paste, covering it well. Then place it on a roasting tin with three or four table-spoonfuls of dripping and bake in a moderate oven, basting frequently. The time will depend on the size and thickness of the ham; about 3 horns should be allowed for a medium-sized ham, or about 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over. When ready remove the crust and skin, and finish and serve the ham as directed for boiled ham. If served hot, a good wine sauce may be served separately. Note.—If only a half ham is being baked the preliminary boiling may be dispensed with. 1008. Ham a la Maddre (Jambon a la Madere) Boil a small ham of 5 or 6 lbs. or a piece of ham as directed in Recipe 1006. While still hot, remove the skin and surplus fat and place it on a tin or fireproof dish. Pour 2 or 3 glasses of Madeira over the ham and sprinkle it well with flour. Place it in a good oven and allow it to bake J hour or until nicely browned, basting it frequently with the wine. Finished in this way the ham will have a delicious flavour. Note.—Champagne is sometimes used instead of Madeira. 1009. Lard, To Prepare This is prepared from the inside fat of a pig, which goes under the name of flead, flare, or leaf. Care must be taken to obtain this fat very fresh, as it soon becomes tainted. Skin it carefully, removing any discoloured parts or traces of blood. Then cut it in small pieces and put it in a strong jar without any water. Stand the jar in a sauce- pan of boiling water and keep it boiling over the fire. As the fat melts strain it carefully off until the fibrous parts of the flead are left fairly dry. When ready, pour it into bladders or jars and keep it airtight. If exposed to the air for any length of time it will become rancid. The residue can be chopped and used in the making of pea or lentil soup. Note.—A double saucepan may be used for melt- ing down the fat.