424 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD few drops of maraschino, and roll them in maca- roon or other biscuit crumbs before dipping them in the batter. Finish in the same manner as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Note.—Tinned fruit does very well for these, if it is drained before rolling it in the crumbs. 1894. Pear Fritters (Beignets aux Poires) 2 or 3 ripe pears. Frying batter (Re- Castor sugar. cipe 1861). A little wine or liqueur. Choose good ripe pears, peel them and cut them in quarters. Take out the pips and core, and soak the pieces of pear for 20 minutes in a little wine or liqueur or in lemon or orange juice and some castor sugar. Finish in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1895. Prune Fritters Stewed prunes. I Sugar and grated Frying batter. [ chocolate. Sweet almonds. | Remove the stones from some stewed prunes and drain them well from their syrup. Insert a blanched almond in place of the stone, then dip the prunes in frying batter, and fry them in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain them and sprinkle with sugar and chocolate mixed. Serve hot with a dish paper under them. 1896. Rice Croquettes (Croquettes de Riz) 3 oz. Carolina rice. 1 gill of cold water. 1 pt. milk. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. Rind of 1 lemon. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 whole egg. Bread-crumbs. A little flour. Wash the rice well in several waters, and then put it into a lined saucepan with the gill of fresh cold water. Bring this to the boil over the fire, cook for 5 minutes, and pour the water off. Then add the milk, butter, and grated lemon rind, and stew the rice slowly until quite soft and thick. From 1 to % hour will be necessary for this process. Bice Croquettes When ready, remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs and sugar. Then turn the mixture on to a plate, smooth it over with a wetted knife, and set it aside to cool. When cold, divide it into 10 or 12 equal-sized pieces, place them on a board sprinkled with a little flour, and shape each one neatly either into balls, round flat cakes, cork or pear shapes. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and re-shape so as to take away the rough appearance. Fry these croquettes in a saucepan of boiling fat until a golden brown colour, then drain them on paper and dredge with sugar. Serve them piled on a hot dish, with a dish-paper under them, and apricot or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—Any other flavouring may be used instead of the grated lemon rind, or a little grated chocolate or cocoanut may be added to the rice mixture. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1897. Croquettes of Rice with Fruit (Croquettes de Riz aux Fruits) Prepare the same mixture as for rice croquettes, adding to it about 2 oz. preserved fruits finely chopped. Allow the mixture to cool, then form it into small pear-shaped pieces with a little flour. Brush these over with slightly beaten white of egg with which a little salad oil has been mixed, and coat them with chopped almonds instead of bread-crumbs. Fry the croquettes in boiling fat and put a small piece of angelica in the narrow end of each to imitate the stalk of the pear. Serve hot with apricot sauce (Recipe 774) separately. Note.—Semolina may be used instead of rice. 1898. Rice and Chocolate Croquettes Prepare a rice mixture as directed in Recipe 1896, flavour it with vanilla, and add 2 or 3 table-spoon- fuls of finely-grated chocolate. Mix well and spread the mixture on a buttered dish or tin to cool. Then shape it in small round cakes or any other form preferred, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. 1899. Rusk Fritters Grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. A little butter. ; tops and bottoms ” for | doz. rusks. 1 or 2 eggs. | pt. milk. Choose the rusks called these, and lay them flat on a large dish. Beat up the egg with the sugar and grated rind of \ lemon, add the milk, and strain over the rusks. Allow them to soak until all this custard is absorbed. Make some butter hot in a frying pan, place the rusks one at a time into it, lifting them very carefully with a palette knife or fish shoe. Fry them a pretty brown colour on both sides, drain when ready, and sprinkle with sugar. When all are ready, arrange the fritters neatly on a lace-edged paper, and serve with jam or stewed fruit. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1900. Semolina Croquettes (Croquettes de Semoule) | pt. milk. 3 oz. semolina. 11 oz. sugar. 1 whole egg and 1 yolk. 2 oz. currants. Flavouring. J oz. butter. Egg and bread-crumbs. Put the semolina, milk, and butter into a sauce- pan, and stir them over the fire until thick. Then cook from 8 to 10 minutes. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the eggs, sugar, flavouring, and currants picked and cleaned. Mix well, and spread this mixture to the thickness of \ an inch on a wetted dish or tin, and allow it to cool. When