485 ICES PART II MOULDED AND FANCY ICES TO MOULD AN ICE When something more elaborate is wanted, the ice mixture should be moulded and turned out in shape. The mixture in this case should not be frozen too hard or it will not mould prettily. Take an ice pudding mould and let it he on ice or in icy water for some time before it is required. Then pack it tightly with the frozen mixture, ressing it well down, in order to force out all air ubbles, and filling it to the brim. Cover with a piece of strong white paper, wetted with cold water, and put on the lid. Now seal round the join (of the hd and mould) with lard, which, when hard, will make the mould perfectly watertight, as the greatest care must be taken to prevent any salted water from entering. Imbed the mould in a mixture of ice and salt from 2 to 4 hours, according to size. The ice pail with the pot re- moved from it may be used for imbedding the pudding. If an ice cave is used the sealing of the mould will not be necessary, in fact the mixture might then be put into any fancy pudding mould, which is not so expensive as a proper ice mould. Longer time must be allowed for freezing in an ice cave. Ice pudding moulds may be had in many differ- ent forms, the best being made of pewter or copper. As a rule the simpler the shape tne better, and it is certainly easier where turning out is concerned. Favourite shapes are the pillar, the melon, and the dome or bomb moulds, and these lend themselves readily to some simple outside decoration. A nice compote of fruit, for instance, is always a good finish to a plain ice. With the more fanciful moulds it is often necessary to use two or three different coloured mixtures in order to show them off to advantage, and unless this is well done the result is not satisfactory. ICE PUDDINGS Almost, any good ice mixture may be made into a pudding, or a mixture of two or three kinds may be used together. A mixture of fruits cut in small pieces is often added, and liqueur of some kind is a favourite flavouring. When two kinds of cream are to be used in the mould, set the mould on ice and line it about an inch thick with the heavier of the two mixtures, and then fill up the centre with another mixture of a different flavour. If a cream ice and water ice are being used to- gether, the cream mixture should be used to line the mould and the water ice for filling the centre. Then, again, if the mixtures are being set in layers, the lightest should be put in first and the rnosfc solid last, as there will then be a firm foundation for the pudding to rest on when it is turned out. Very pretty combinations may be made by setting the iced mixture in a border mould, and filling the centre with fruit or whipped cream when it is turned out. For instance, a pink ice cream with white whipped cream in the centre and a few crystallised rose petals to decorate it, or a lemon- coloured ice cream with small pieces of pine-apple and whipped cream in the centre, and a decoration of maidenhair fern, or, again, a white cream with small strawberries or raspberries in the centre flavoured with liqueur, and so on; the variety is almost endless and leaves room for individual taste and ingenuity. To Unmould and Serve an Ice Pudding If the mould has been buried in ice and salt, scrape off the lard covering the join, wipe the out- side carefully, and then remove the hd and paper. Dip the mould in cold water for a few seconds, wipe it dry, then invert it on a dish which has a pretty lace-edged paper on it, and draw the mould slowly ofE. If it does not come away at once, let it stand for a minute or two. Thi3 unmoulding must be done with care, and a little practice will be required to do it nicely. If the outside is allowed to become too soft, some of the mixture will run down on the dish and the appearance of the pudding will be altogether spoilt. Decorate the pudding with preserved fruits, or pieces of fresh fruit that have been well chilled on ice, or with curled wafer biscuits, or small sprays of maidenhair fern. A rich sauce may be poured round the plainer ice puddings. Some moulded ices look better when they are raised on an ice border (see below), in order to give them height. These ice borders should have a piece of cotton-wool sheeting placed under them, in order to absorb any moisture. Place the cotton-wool on the dish first, and then a lace-edged paper on the top. SMALL FANCY ICES Small ices turned out of little fancy moulds are very dainty, but they are a little more difficult Fancy Ice Meulds to manage. They are more expensive, too, when special moulds are required, and it is only when one is the possessor of an ice cave that any ordinary