COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 196 over the fire until dissolved and perfectly smooth. Add the flour of rice broken with the remainder of the water and stir again until boiling. Simmer a few minutes, add the rum and vanilla, and if too thick, thin down with more water. Strain before using. 784. Claret Sauce (Sauce au Vln Rouge) 1 gill water. 1 in. cinnamon stick. Rind £ lemon. 2 cloves. 1 gill claret. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 table-sp. sugar. Put the water, cinnamon, cloves, and thinly peeled lemon rind into a saucepan, and simmer slowly over the fire for 10 minutes to extract the flavour. Add the arrowroot, broken with a little cold water, and cook a few minutes longer, stirring all the time. Add the claret with sugar to taste, colour with 2 or 3 drops of carmine, and strain before using. 785. Cocoanut Sauce, 1 1 tea-cupful grated 1 tea-cupful sugar, cocoanut. | tea-cupful water. 2 whites of egg. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and boil them until they form a small thread when drawn between the fingers, or the syrup registers 215° P. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and pour the syrup gradually on to them. Add the grated cocoanut at the last. Serve very cold. 786. Cocoanut Sauce, 2 Make in the same way as Hard Sauce (Recipe 803), adding to it the whipped whites of 2 eggs and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls desiccated cocoanut finely chopped. 787. Coffee Sauce, 1 (Sauce au Cafe) 1 gill black coffee. I 2 yolks of eggs. 1 gill milk. I 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Heat the coffee and milk in a saucepan, and pour it slowly on to the creamed yolks, stirring all the time. Return to the saucepan and stir until the sauce begins to thicken in the same way as a custard sauce, being careful it does not boil. Strain and serve hot or cold. 788. Coffee Sauce, 2 (Sauce au Cafe) 1 gill strong black coffee. J glass brandy. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. water. Heat the coffee in a Saucepan, add to it the arrowroot, mixed to a smooth paste with the cold water, and boil a few minutes. Add the sugar and brandy. Make thoroughly hot and serve. 789. Cornflour Sauce \ pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 heaped tea-sp. corn- Rind of £ lemon, flour. Break the cornflour smoothly with a little of the milk. Put the remainder of the milk into a sauce- pan with the thinly peeled rind of J lemon, and let it heat by the side of the fire until well flavoured. Then strain this flavoured milk on to the corn- flour, mix and return all to the saucepan. Stir until boiling, cook 4 or 5 minutes, and add sugar to taste. Notes.—The lemon may be omitted and any other flavouring added according to taste. The sauce may be made richer by adding a table- spoonful of cream or a small piece of butter just before serving. 790. Cranberry Sauce (Sauce aux Canneberges) 1 lb. cranberries. I 1 tea-cupful water. J lb. brown sugar. j Pick and wash the cranberries and put them into an earthenware or enamelled saucepan. Bruise them well with the back of a fork, then add the water and stew slowly until reduced to a pulp. Press the whole through a sieve, add the sugar and reheat. A little port wine may be added. Sometimes 1 or 2 apples are used along with the cranberries. It may also be served without sieving. Serve with mutton, poultry, or game. 791. Cream Sauce, 1 2 oz. butter. 1 1 gill double cream. 2 oz. castor sugar. J Vanilla. Beat the butter in a basin until creamy, add the | sugar, finely sifted, and beat again -until soft and I light. Then add the cream gradually and flavour 1 with vanilla, or any other flavouring preferred, a Now stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, I and whisk lightly until smooth and frothy. Be J most careful that the sauce does not boil or it < will curdle. 792. Cream Sauce, 2 1 cupful sour cream. I Vanilla essence. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Grated nutmeg. 2 table-sps. sherry. I Mix the wine and sugar with the cream, flavour- | ing with some vanilla essence. Put the sauce in ] a very cold place or on ice until required and ] serve it as cold as possible with a very little nut- 1 meg grated on the top. 793. A Simple Custard Sauce, 1 \ pt. milk. [ 1 egg. Sugar. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. I Flavouring. Put most of the milk into a saucepan and heat a it slowly over the fire. Mix the cornflour to a .1 smooth paste with the remainder of the milk, and | add it to the rest. Stir until boiling, and simmer slowly 5 to 10 minutes in order to thoroughly cook the cornflour. Then remove the saucepan • to the side of the fire, and allow the contents to cool slightly. Beat up the egg, strain it into the sauce, and reheat until the egg thickens, but do not boil again. Sweeten and flavour to taste. 794. Custard Sauce, 2 (Creme Cuite) 2 yolks of eggs. I 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 white of egg. A few drops of flavour- £ pt. of milk. I ing. Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water put the milk into it, and let it heat over the fire