509 IIORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES the whites of the 2 eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the whipped cream. Half fill some greased china or paper souffle cases with the mixture and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and lightly- browned. 2365. Devilled Ham Biscuits (Biscuits de Jambon a la Diable) 2 table-sps. minced ham. 1 tea-sp. minced an- chovies. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers. Brown sauce. Sherry. Water biscuits. Butter. Seasoning. Use cooked ham and mince it very finely with a small proportion of fat. Mix with it the chopped anchovy and capers, and moisten with some good brown sauce flavoured with sherry or Marsala. Heat the mixture in a small saucepan, adding more seasoning if necessary. Then butter some small water biscuits, dust them lightly with pepper and salt and toast them in the oven. Pile some of the mixture on each, sprinkle with coralline pepper and return to the oven until thoroughly hot. Serve on a dish paper, and garnish with parsley. 2366. Ham Croutes 3 or 4 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. white or brown sauce. (Croutes de Jambon) \ tea-sp. made mustard. Cayenne. Grated cheese. Croutes of fried bread. Chop the ham finely, mix it with the sauce, and pound the two together to a paste, seasoning with cayenne, mustard, and salt if necessary. Spread this mixture thickly on small rounds of fried bread or hot buttered toast, sprinkle them with grated cheese, and place them in a hot oven to brown and heat through. Serve garnished with parsley. 2367. Ham and Egg Savoury (Croutes Favorites) Cooked ham. A little sherry. Round croutons of bread. Scrambled egg. Chopped parsley. Cut and fry some round croutons of bread about 3 inches in diameter and keep them warm. Then cut some thinly-sliced cooked ham in rounds the same size as the croutons. Put these on a plate, sprinkle them with sherry, cover with another plate, and heat over a saucepan of boiling water. Now prepare some scrambled egg (see Recipe 1325), allowing 1 egg, &c., for each four croutons. To Serve.—Place a round of ham on each crouton, pile some of the egg mixture on the top, and sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley. Serve hot with a dish paper under them. 2368. Herring Roes on Toast, 1 (Laitances de Harengs sur Croutes) Soft roes. Butter. | Lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. | Hot buttered toast. Wash the roes, dry them and cut them in con- venient-sized pieces. Make some butter very hot in a frying pan, put in the pieces of roe, and fry them lightly. Then season them rather highly with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Have ready some fingers or rounds of hot buttered toast, lay the roe on them, and place in the oven a few minutes. Serve garnished with parsley. Notes.—If liked, the pieces of toast may be spread with a little anchovy paste before putting on the roe ; or a little grated Parmesan may be sprinkled over the croutes before putting them in the oven. Preserved herring roes may be used instead of fresh ones; these will not require frying, but they must be made thoroughly hot in the oven. 2369. Herring Roes on Toast, 2 (Laitances de Harengs sur Crofltes) 2 or 3 hard herring roes. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 table-sp. butter. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. Coralline pepper. Wash the herring roes and cook them in the oven with a small quantity of butter. Then pound them or mash them up with the anchovy essence and enough melted butter or cream to make a paste. Season highly with cayenne, and add a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread this mixture thickly on little rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast, and make the croutes very hot in the oven. Sprinkle them alternately with chopped parsley and coralline pepper and serve at once. 2370. Herring Roes with Mushrooms (Laitances aux Champignons) 2 or 3 hard roes. Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. A little butter. 6 or 7 mushrooms. 6 or 7 fried croutes of bread. Cook the roes and then chop them, removing any skin. Season well with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and add enough melted butter or a little cream to bind all together. Spread this mixture rather thickly on croutes of fried bread or rounds of hot buttered toast, and put a fried or grilled mushroom on the top. Serve very hot. 2371. Lax Croutes (Croutes a la Norvegienne) Lax. Croutes of fried bread. Shrimp or anchovy paste. Seasoning. Horse radish. Lax is a preparation of salmon cut in small thin pieces and preserved in oil. Prepare some oval- shaped croutes of fried bread and spread them thinly with shrimp or anchovy paste. Drain and wipe some lax and arrange it neatly on the crofites. Season to taste, cover with a piece of greased paper, and make all thoroughly hot in the oven. Then garnish each croute with a little finely-shred horse-radish, and serve at once. 2372. Devilled Lax Water biscuits. I Pepper. Salt. Salad oil. | Lax. Devil paste. Dip the required number of water biscuits in salad oil, sprinkle them with salt and black or eayenne pepper, and toast them brown on both sides. Drain some lax, cut it in small pieces, and lay some on the top of each biscuit. Cover with devil paste (see Recipe 763), and place the croutes in a hot oven for a few minutes. Serve very hot.