HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 517 2422. Mealy Puddings 1 lb. oatmeal. I Salt. Pepper. | lb. beef suet. 2 onions. | Long pudding skins. Prepare the pudding skins as directed in Recipe 998, washing them well and letting them lie in cold water overnight. Choose either medium or coarse oatmeal, put it on a tin in the oven and toast it to a light brown colour, turning it over now and again that it may colour equally. Chop the suet finely, using a very little flour if necessary, and skin, scald, and chop the onions finely. Now mix the oatmeal, onions, and suet together, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Tie one end of the pudding skin and put in enough of the mixture to make a fair-sized sausage, then tie again, leaving room for the mixture to swell in the cooking. Proceed to make more sausages in the same way, tying them at both ends so that they can be cut separate afterwards. When all are ready, prick them well with a needle to prevent the skins bursting, put them into a saucepan of slowly boiling water, and let them simmer for \ hour. When the puddings are re- quired, toast them a few minutes in front of the fire or in the oven. 2423. Savoury Pancakes Very nice savoury pancakes can be made by following the directions given for the ordinary sweet pancake (Recipe 1889), and adding to the batter a seasoning of pepper and more salt, also a little finely-chopped parsley and chopped shallot, or a small quantity of powdered herbs. Or, if pre- ferred, grated cheese, minced mushrooms, or finely-chopped ham or tongue may be added to the batter. These pancakes can afterwards be rolled up and served as they are, or a little filling, such as is used for the various omelets, may be put into them previous to rolling up. Or again, the pancakes may be left flat, and piled up one on the top of the other with a savoury mixture or puree between each; and some gravy or sauce may be poured round. 2424. Herb Pancake 2 oz. flour. 2 eggs. i pt. milk. Grated lemon rind. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot or onion. | tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Lard to fry. Make a smooth batter with the flour, milk, and eggs, and beat it well. Then add to it a little grated lemon rind and the other seasonings, and mix well together. Allow the batter to stand at least \ hour, and then fry in thin pancakes, brown- ing them on both sides. Roll the pancakes up as they are ready, and serve them very hot. 2425. Mushroom Pancakes 3 or 4 mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 2 shallots. | tea-sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Batter. J lb. flour. \ pt. milk. 2 eggs. Salt. _ First make the batter according to directions given for pancakes (see p. 422), and allow it to stand while the mixture is prepared. To Make the Mixture.—Chop the mushrooms and shallots and cook them 5 minutes in the butter, seasoning with pepper, salt, and the herbs very finely powdered. Make a thin ordinary pancake, and, before the batter sets, put a small spoonful of the mixture on the top. Shake the pan a little so as to spread the mixture over the pancake; then, when brown on the under side, toss over and brown on the other. Make the rest of the pancakes in the same way, and serve them flat, one on the top of the other. If large they may be cut in two or four pieces. They must be served very hot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 pancakes. 2426. Surprise Onions 3 Spanish onions. 3 sheep’s kidneys. 2 oz. butter. Itable-sp.bread-crumbs Pepper. Salt. 1 gill brown gravy. Peel the onions and scald them in boiling salted water for a few minutes. Then cut off the tops and remove the centre part from each. Skin the kidneys, season them with pepper and salt, and place one inside each onion. Sprinkle the bread- crumbs over, and put some of the butter in small Eieces on tbe top. Melt the remainder of the utter in a baking tin or dish, place the stuffed onions on it, and bake in a moderate oven from 1| to 2 hours, basting frequently with the butter. When ready, lift the onions on to a hot dish and pour a little brown gravy round. 2427. Potato and Cheese Balls 4 potatoes. J lb. grated cheese. 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. A little flour. A little butter. Choose large potatoes and bake them in the oven. When ready, scoop out the pulp and rub it through a sieve. Mix it in a basin with most of the cheese and seasoning, and then bind together with the yolks of eggs. Form this mixture into balls and roll them lightly in flour. Melt some butter in a frying pan; when smoking hot, put in the balls and fry them to a pretty brown colour. Drain, serve them with a dish paper under them, and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over. 2428. Potato and Cheese Mould | lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 table-sp.milk or cream 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A few browned bread- crumbs. Pepper. Salt. Sieve the potatoes, and add to them the butter melted, the yolks of eggs, cheese, seasoning, and the milk or cream. Mix well together. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly to the other mixture. Grease a plain mould or basin, and line it with browned bread-crumbs. Three parts fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven about 30 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once. 2429. Potato and Sausage Croquettes Mashed potatoes. I A little flour. Cooked sausages. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare some mashed potatoes the same as for Potato Balls (Recipe 542). Remove the skins