624 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 3016. Fish 1 cupful cooked roe. £ tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 hard-boiled egg. Roe Savoury 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. Pepper and salt. Break up the roe with a fork, and chop the hard- boiled egg. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in all the other ingredients, seasoning to taste and moistening with a little milk. Stir over the lamp until thoroughly hot, and then serve with fingers of toast or toast biscuits. Note.—A little grated cheese, or anchovy or shrimp essence may be added to the mixture if liked. 3017. Stewed Kidneys 3 or 4 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 gill water or stock. 1 glass red wine. Seasoning. Toast. Skin the kidneys, split them and remove the core. Then cut them in slices, and toss them in the flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in the blazer, and, when smoking hot, put in the kidney and onion, and stir them about until brown. Add the stock and wine, and mix well. Now place the blazer over the hot-water pan, cover and cook slowly from 10 to 15 minutes, or until the kidney is tender. Serve with fingers of dry toast. 3018. Lobster with Tomatoes 1 cupful cooked lob- ster. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill tomato puree. 1 glass white wine. Seasoning. Tinned lobster may be used for this. Cut it in small pieces free from shell, and rub sufficient tinned tomato through a sieve to make 1 gill. Melt the butter in the blazer over the hot-water pan, put in the lobster, and cook it about 5 minutes. Then add the tomato puree, wine, and seasoning to taste. Make all thoroughly hot and then serve. 3019. Mushrooms and Bacon \ lb. bacon. 1 doz. mushrooms. Wash and peel the mushrooms, and cut them in thinnish slices. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon, and cut it in small neat pieces. Heat the blazer of the chafing dish, put in the bacon, cook it a minute or two, then add the mushrooms, and cook both together for a few minutes longer, until the mushrooms have absorbed the fat of the bacon. 3020. Mushrooms with Wine J lb. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. | gill boiling water. 1 glass red or white wine. Seasoning. Prepare the mushrooms and cut them in pieces. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the mush- rooms, and pour the boiling water over them. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, cover, and cook slowly from 10 to 15 minutes. Then add a glass of wine, make thoroughly hot, and serve with croutons of fried bread, or fingers of toast. 3021. Mutton with Red-currant Sauce Cold mutton. 1 table-sp. red currant jelly. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. | pt. brown stock. Seasoning. Have the mutton trimmed and cut in small neat slices. Melt the butter in the blazer, and when beginning to brown, mix in the flour until smooth. Add the stock, and stir until boiling. Then place the blazer over the under pan with hot water, add the red-currant jelly and the meat to the sauce, with seasoning to taste. Cover, and cook a few minutes until thoroughly hot. 3022. Creamed Oysters 1 to 1| doz. oysters. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill milk. | gill oyster liquor. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. First drain the oysters from their liquor. Then make a sauce in the blazer placed over the pan of hot water. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and pour on the milk and oyster liquor. Stir until boiling, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Add the oysters, allow them to heat thoroughly, and then serve on pieces of hot buttered toast. The dish may be made richer by adding 1 or 2 yolks of eggs or a little cream. 3023. Oysters with White Wine 1 to H doz. oysters. 2 table - sps. melted butter. Salt. Cayenne. 1 glass Chablis or Sau- terne. Make the butter hot in the blazer, drain the oysters, and add them to it with a seasoning of salt and cayenne. Cook them a minute or two until they look plump and the edges ruffle. Then add the wine, and make all thoroughly hot. Put out the lamp, and 6erve the oysters on hot buttered toast. 3024. Creamed Peas 1 pt. cooked green peas. A sprig of mint. 4 table-sps. cream. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of sugar. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Heat the peas in boiling water with a sprig of mint added to it, and then strain. Heat the cream in the chafing dish, add the peas, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Stir over the flame for a minute or two, but do not boil. Serve with toast or toast biscuits. A little butter may be added if wished. 3025. Savoury Slices 2 slices bread. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 gill cream or stock. Seasoning. Cut the bread from a sandwich loaf, remove the crust, and make finger-shaped pieces. Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish, fry the bread until brown on both sides, and then drain it. Now put all the other ingredients into the blazer, seasoning them rather highly, and stir over the lamp until very hot. Spread this mixture on the pieces of fried bread and serve at once.