55 STOCKS AND SOUPS Eut them through a vegetable presser. Melt the utter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix it in and cook 2 minutes. Then pour in the milk and stir until boiling and a smooth sauce is formed. Add the potatoes and stock, bring to the boil and boil 10 minutes. Rub some tinned tomatoes through a fine sieve, sufficient to make | pint, add it to the soup and bring to the boil once more. Season to taste and if too thick add a little more stock or milk. Time to cook, about \ hour. Probable cost, 9d. Quantity, 2 pints. 69. Pumpkin Soup, 1 (Soupe au Potiron) 1J lbs. ripe juicy pump- kin. 1£ pts. water. 2 oz. butter or good dripping. | pt. milk. A pinch of sugar. Seasoning to taste. Crofttons of fried bread. Peel the pumpkin, remove the seeds, and then weigh it. Cut it in thin slices, put it in a saucepan with the butter and a little water and cook until reduced to a pulp. Rub this through a fine sieve and return to the saucepan to reheat, thinning it down to the desired consistency with more water and the | pint milk. Season to taste and pour over fried crofttons of bread in the soup tureen. Note.—Light stock may be used instead of water and a little cream may be added. Time to cook, \ to £• hour. Probable cost, Scl. Quantity, 2 pints. 70. Pumpkin Soup, 2 lbs. pumpkin. 2 onions. 2 or 3 leeks. 2 carrots. 5 or 6 potatoes. 2 (Potage au Potiron) 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 2 qts. warm water. Salt. Pepper. As this soup is not sieved, the vegetables must be prepared carefully. Peel the pumpkin, remove all the seeds and stringy part from the centre, then weigh it and cut it in cubes. Peel and slice the onions, wash and scrape the carrots and cut them in thin rounds, wash the leeks and cut them in small pieces. Now melt the fat in a saucepan and when hot put in the onions and brown them slightly. Next add the carrots and leeks and cook them a few minutes without letting them brown. Add the pumpkin, season with pepper and salt and cover with the warm water. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly at least 1 hour. Then add the potatoes, peeled and cut in rough pieces. Cook £ hour longer and serve very hot. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 3 pints. 71. Red Haricot Soup (Creme Conde) 1 lb. red haricots. 3 pts. water or meat boilings. 2 onions. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. cream. Pepper and salt. Wash the haricots and if time permits soak them overnight in the cold water. Then put them into a saucepan with the water and bring them slowly to the boil. Add the onions cut in small pieces and simmer slowly until the beans are quite soft. Sieve the soup and return it to the saucepan with the butter and seasoning and allow it to simmer 10 or 15 minutes longer until quite smooth. Put the cream into a hot soup tureen and pour the soup on to it. Note.—Sometimes a glass of claret is added. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 72. Red \ lb. haricot beans. 1 cupful tomato pulp. 2 or 3 onions. 2 oz. dripping. 1 beetroot. Pottage 2 or 3 sticks of celery. 4 pts. water. A small bunch of herbs. Seasoning. Wash the beans and soak them overnight in 1 pint of cold water. Next day put them into a large saucepan with the water in which they were soaked, other 3 pints of water and the dripping. Bring this to the boil over the fire and add the vegetables prepared and cut in pieces. The beet- root should be peeled and cut in thin slices, and either tinned tomatoes used or fresh tomatoes cut in small pieces. Allow the soup to boil slowly until the haricot beans and other vegetables are quite soft. Then rub as much as possible through a sieve or colander. If the soup has reduced very much in quantity and become too thick, add more water or a little milk to make it of the right con- sistency. Season to taste and reheat. Time to cook, 2\ to 3 hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 73. Salsify Soup (Mock Oyster) 12 roots salsify. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. 1 oz. flour. J pt. milk. 1 qt. water or light stock. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. Prepare the salsify as directed in Recipe 564, and cut it in slices about \ inch thick. Put the water or stock, onion chopped finely and bay-leaf into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Throw in the salsify and allow it to cook until tender, from J to §■ hour. In another saucepan make a sauce with the butter, flour, and milk ; cook it well and pour it in beside the salsify. Season to taste, simmer a few minutes, lift out the bay-leaf and the soup is ready. Serve crofttons of fried bread separately. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints. 74. Scotch Kail 2 lbs. mutton. 3 qts. cold water. 1 firm white cabbage. 3 or 4 leeks. 2 table-sps. pearl barley. Salt. Pepper. Wash and blanch the barley and soak it over- night in a little cold water. Next day, wipe the meat and put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the cold water, the soaked barley, and 1 tea- spoonful of salt. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and simmer slowly for 1| hours. Then add the cabbage carefully washed and finely shred, and the leeks also washed and cut in thin slices. Cook for another 1£ hours, or until both vegetables and meat are well cooked. Season to taste. The meat may either be cut in pieces and served in the soup, or served whole as a separate dish. Notes.—If the somewhat strong flavour of the cabbage is objected to, it should be scalded for a few minutes before being added to the soup. Other vegetables may be added if wished, and oatmeal