BREAKFAST DISHES 389 sandwiches, to whioh the addition of a little thinly sliced cucumber or small cress would be an im- provement. Note.—Other fish, such as cod, halibut, brill, or mackerel, may be used in the same way. 1696. Boiled Sausages with Curried Rice Pork or beef sausages. I Curry powder. Patna rice. | Seasoning. Prick the sausages, lay them in a saucepan with hot water to cover them, bring them to the boil, and then simmer slowly from 20 to 25 minutes. Meanwhile boil some Patna rice, the same as for Curry (see Recipe 1586), and when drained and well dried mix into it a little curry powder and add pepper and salt to taste. Arrange a neat bed of this on a hot dish, drain the sausages and lay them on the top. Notes.—A little tomato puree may be mixed with the rice instead of the curry powder. Sausages cooked in this way are lighter than when fried. 1697. Glazed Sausage Roll 1 lb. pork sausage meat. 1 lb. beef sausage meat. J lb. ham or tongue. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Truffles and pistachio nuts. A little glaze. Seasoning. Mix the two kinds of sausage meat together, and add more seasoning if necessary. Spread this out on a floured cloth in an oblong shape. Cut the hard-boiled eggs and ham or tongue in strips, and lay them in alternate rows across the sausage meat. Lay on also, if liked, a few pistachios and truffles cut in strips. Roll up and tie firmly at the two ends, and put one or two pins at the join to keep the roll well in shape. Simmer this slowly in a stock pot until sufficiently cooked, then lift out and press between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Then remove the cloth, and brush over with a little melted glaze (see p. 210). Serve cold, garnished with parsley, watercress, or other green salad. Time to cook, 3 hours. Probable cost, 3s. Note.—The truffles and pistachio nuts may be omitted. 1698. Sheep’s Tongues, Devilled 1 or 2 cooked sheep’s tongues. Melted butter. Salt. Pepper. Cayenne. Made mustard. Lemon juice. Browned bread-crumbs. Watercress. Remove the skin from the tongues, cut them in slices about \ inch in thickness. Trim these neatly, removing all gristle and any parts that are uneat- able. Spread the slices on a flat plate, season them with pepper, cayenne, salt (if necessary), and a sprinkling of lemon juice. Allow these to lie for | hour, then dip each slice into melted butter with which a little made mustard has been mixed. Now coat them with fine browned bread-crumbs, lay them on a greased tin and make them thoroughly hot in a moderate oven. Serve in a circle with water cress, seasoned with lemon juice, pepper and salt, in the centre. 1699. Baked Sprats Fresh sprats. Vinegar. Water. Bay-leaf. Onion. Salt. Pepper. A little butter. Clean and dry the sprats and cut off the heads. Grease a pie dish or fireproof dish, lay in the fish, season with pepper and salt, and place on the top a few thin slices of onion and a bay-leaf. Now cover the fish with equal parts of water and brown vinegar, lay some pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about | hour. Serve cold, garnished with parsley. 1700. Savoury Meat Toast | lb. cold cooked meat. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Pepper. Salt. A little grated lemon rind. $ gill brown or tomato sauce. Hot buttered toast. Mince the meat very finely, removing all skin and gristle. Put it into a saucepan with all the other ingredients, seasoning to taste, and make the mixture thoroughly hot over the fire. Cut some toast into very neat pieces, butter it while hot, and pile some of the mixture on each piece. Garnish with a little finely chopped parsley, or with small sections of hard-boiled egg. Notes.—Any kind of meat may be used for the above, but a mixture of meats is best, such as beef and ham, chicken and ham, mutton and tongue, &c. Other flavourings may be added as desired, such as mushrooms, capers, chopped gherkins, pickled walnuts, &c., or curry sauce may be used instead of brown or tomato. 1701. Whiting Cakes 2 or 3 whiting, 2 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. lemoii juice. 1 table-sp. oil. Egg and bread-crumbs. Cooked green peas. Tomato sauce. Remove the flesh from 2 or 3 small whiting, and weigh it free from skin and bone. To each \ lb. of flesh allow butter and lemon juice in the above proportion. Chop the whiting flesh finely or pound it in a mortar, add the butter slightly melted, and season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. A little anchovy or shrimp essence may also be added if liked. Mix until thoroughly blended, then turn the paste on to a plate and put it in a cool place to set. When firm to the touch, form the mixture into small round cakes, using a little flour if neces- sary. Dip them into beaten egg, with which a table-spoonful of salad oil has been mixed, and then in fine bread-crumbs. Fry the cakes in a small quantity of hot butter or clarified fat until well browned on both sides. Drain well, and serve neatly on a hot dish, garnishing with some pretty fresh parsley. 1702. Tongue Toast 6 oz. cooked tongue. 1 yolk of egg. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 tea -sp. choppedparsley Pepper. 2 slices toast. A little butter. Remove all skin and gristle from the tongue, and chop it finely, or put it through a mincing machine. Put it into a lined saucepan with the yolk of egg and cream, season with pepper, and heat gently over the fire without allowing the mixture to boil. Have ready some neat pieces of hot buttered toast, put some of the tongue mixture on the top of each, sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley, and serve hot. Note.—Some well-flavoured sauce may be used instead of the cream.