420 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Beat well, add the baking powder and salt, the apples finely chopped, and, lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stili froth. Form the mixture into small portions about the size of a walnut, drop them into boiling fat, and fry to a golden brown colour. Drain and dredge well with sugar. Serve plain or with wine or lemon sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1870. Apple Fritters without Batter 3 medium-sized apples. I 1 glass wine or brandy. Castor sugar. | A little flour. Grated lemon rind. 1 Choose good sound apples of medium size, peel them, cut them in four or six pieces, and remove the core, trimming the pieces neatly. Lay these pieces on a plate, sprinkle them with sugar and a little grated lemon rind, and pour over the wine or brandy. Let them stand one hour, turning them over now and again, in order that all the pieces may be well soaked and flavoured with the wine. Brandy, rum, wine, or liqueur may be used according to taste. Care must be taken not to break the pieces of apple when turning them. When ready, drain, and then toss them in finely sifted flour. Fry in boiling fat in the same way as other fritters until of a golden brown colour, and well cooked. Drain well and sprinkle with sugar. Serve very hot. Note.—Tinned peaches or apricots may be pre- pared in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. or 8d. 1871. 6 or 7 apples. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. sugar, i tea-sp. cinnamon. Apple Rissoles 1 egg. Cake-crumbs. Apricot jam. Whipped cream. Pink sugar. Choose rather small apples of equal size, peel and core them and steam them until nearly tender, but not broken. Then allow them to cool. Sieve the flour, sugar, and cinnamon on to a piece of paper, and roll the apples in this mixture. Then brush them over with beaten egg and toss them in fine cake-crumbs. Fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour and drain well. Arrange the apples neatly on a hot dish, fill the centres with apricot jam, pile a little whipped cream on the top of each, and sprinkle with pink sugar. Probable cost. Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1872. Apricots a la Colbert (Abricots a la Colbert) i tin apricots. 1 beaten egg. 1 oupful cooked rice. Egg or cake-crumbs. A little rice flour. Choose firm halves of apricots, and drain them well from their syrup on the top of a sieve. Then take some rice that has been well cooked in milk and is adhesive, and form it into small balls with a little rice flour. Put two half apricots together, with a hall of rice between, and roll again in rice flour to dry the outside. Then brush over with beaten egg, toss in bread or cake crumbs, and fry in boiling fat until a pretty brown colour. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve either hot or cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1873. Apricot Fritters with Cream (Beignets d’Abricots & la Crdme) 1 doz. ripe apricots. [ 1 cupful custard cream. Sugar. ! Frying batter. A little liqueur. j Choose fresh ripe apricots, wipe them, cut them in halves and take out the stones. Lay the pieces on a dish, sprinkle them well with sugar and a little kirsch or other liqueur, and let them remain at least 4 hour. Then drain the apricots and place them on a dish or board with the cut side upper- most. Take some thick and cold custard sauce, flavour it with vanilla or the same liqueur, and sweeten to taste. Put some of this into half the number of apricot pieces, place the remaining halves on the top, and press them lightly together. A short time before the sweet is required, dip the stuffed apricots into Frying Batter Nos. 1 or 4 (pp.)418-19), and fry them in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain well and sprinkle with plain or vanilla sugar. Serve on a hot dish with a lace- edged paper under them. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1874. Banana Croquettes (Croquettes de Bananes) 4 to 6 bananas. 2 oranges. 2 oz. sugar. 1 egg. Biscuit-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. cornflour or arrowroot. Peel the bananas and cut them in two or four according to size. Put them into a basin, and sprinkle them with the sugar and the grated rind of one orange. Strain over the juice from the two oranges, cover the basin and allow the bananas to soak 1 hour. Then lift out the pieces, and drain them on a sieve for a minute or two. Now brush them over with beaten egg, toss in biscuit or cake crumbs, and fry in boiling fat until a golden brown colour. Drain and dredge with fine sugar. Serve the following sauce separately. Sauce.—Strain the juice in which the bananas were soaked into a saucepan, add the cornflour or arrowroot mixed with a little water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Allow the sauce to cook 2 or 3 minutes before serving. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 1875. Banana Fritters (Beignets aux Bananes) 3 or 4 bananas. I Frying batter. Castor sugar. I Wine or lemon juice. Peel the bananas, cut them in two lengthwise and then once across, making four pieces in all. Lay these pieces on a plate, sweeten and flavour, and let them lie for a few minutes. Finish off in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1876. Beignets Souffles 5 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. castor sugar. 3 eggs. £ pt. water. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. Make the mixture in the same way as directed for Choux Pastry (Recipe 1450), and turn it on to plate to cool. It will be all the better if this can rest for an hour before being used. To fry the