COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 12 a little trouble it can generally be done, and the actual labour of cooking will thus be lightened to a very considerable extent. It is often better to hang many of the smaller utensils that are constantly being required, such as strainers, measures, jugs, &c., as they are more easily reached than when put away in drawers and cupboards. A supply of groceries, too, especially such things as are frequently wanted, should always be kept in the kitchen itself and be ready to hand. Then there is a great art in keeping a place in order when once it is well arranged, and this gift of order, which would seem to be inborn, is, alas! one of the most difficult to acquire. Still, no good work can be done in a muddle, and it will generally be found that it is the best cooks who make the least mess and use the fewest dishes and utensils. When cooking is going on there must always be clearing up at the same time, and when the making of one dish is finished, everything for which there is no further use must be put away before another is started. Often, too, a small washing up can be managed now and again, and thus a big one at the end avoided. Cleanliness.—The kitchen and all that it contains must be kept spotlessly clean, this is imperative both to health and comfort. Cleanliness is one of the first attributes of a good cook, it ought therefore to form the groundwork of all training, as without it there can be no good results as far as cooking is concerned. Not only must the kitchen itself have its systematic daily and weekly cleaning, the utensils, too, must be kept in good condition, and their cleaning must never be neglected nor put off from one day to another. “ You can judge a workman by his tools ” cannot be better applied than to a cook, as no woman who has any pleasure in her profession would put up with a dirty saucepan nor an untidy kitchen— the scrupulous cleanliness of both should be her special pride and care. Below are given a few general rules for the clean ing of a kitchen and its contents. Cleaning the Kitchen.—This may be accomplished all in one day or by degrees, as is found most con- venient. If the kitchen is a large one and there is much to be done, the latter plan is generally the better of the two, as the work is then less obtrusive and it does not upset the comfort of the household so much as a big turn-out would do. The flues and range might be cleaned one day, with the scrubbing of the floors and tables to follow, the cupboards and windows another day, and the larder and out- side premises another, and so on. This is entirely a matter of arrangement, and must be planned to suit the ways and circumstances of each individual household. The following are a few hints regarding the various cleaning operations : To Clean the Range and Flues (see pp. 16-17). The Walls.—These should be kept well dusted. To do this, tie a clean soft duster over the head of a long soft broom and sweep every part of the wall with this, moving the brush up and down in long straight lines and being particular to remove all dust from the corners. The ceiling can be cleaned in the same way. When the walls are covered with some washable material, such as varnished paper, paint, or tiles, they should be well washed when a more thorough cleaning is required. Take a pail of tepid water and add to it enough soap to make a light lather. Use a sponge and wash the wall well over with this. Then carefully remove the soap with a second sponge or chamois leather wrung out of cold water, and leave the wall to dry without further wiping. The Floor.—As a rule the kitchen floor will require a good scrubbing once a week, other days it must be carefully swept or washed over if necessary. If the floor is covered with linoleum it should not be washed too often, as much washing and scrubbing is bad for the ordinary kind. Take a pail of warm water, some plain yellow or carbolic soap and a floor cloth and wash the linoleum with this. Then wring out the floor cloth and take up as much of the mois- ture as possible. If the linoleum is very dirty and requires a brush, then a soft one must be used. The use of soda, ammonia, or washing powders must be avoided. Of course the Greenwich linoleum, or that which has the pattern all the way through, can stand a little harder treatment, but even this must never be left too wet. Windows.—First dust the windows and also the woodwork surrounding them. Then take some tepid water and add enough liquid ammonia to make it smell slightly, or a small quantity of paraffin. Wring a chamois leather out of this and wash over the window with it, paying particular attention to the sides and corners. Then finish off with a soft cloth or dry leather. No material of a fluffy nature must be used. Clean soft paper makes a very good polishing pad. Commence always at the top of the window and work downwards. Paint or other stains can be removed from the glass with vinegar or oxalic acid. It must be remembered that windows should never be cleaned on a frosty day, as the glass is then very brittle and would be liable to break as soon as moisture was applied. Choose a dull dry day when the sun is not shining on them. Tables and Boards.—An effort should be made to keep kitchen tables and boards as white as possible. The following will be required for clean- ing them : a pail or basin of warm water, a piece of house flannel, scrubbing brush, sand, soap, and a stout cloth for drying. Wash the wood over with the flannel wrung out of warm water. Rub a little soap on the brush, dip in sand, and scrub with the grain of the wood. Rinse well in order to remove all grit, and dry quickly with a clean cloth. Soda should not be used, as it tends to discolour the wood, while sand helps to whiten it. When cleaning a kitchen table the legs should not be forgotten. If plain wood they may be scrubbed in the same way as the top, but if painted they must only be wiped over with a damp flannel and dried. Cleaning Mixture.—The following is good for the scrubbing of wood and also for scullery work of all kinds : Take 1 lb. each of powdered whitening, soft soap, and silver sand and 1 quart hot water. Mix the whitening with the water and put them into a sauce- pan with the soap. Bring these to the boil over the fire and simmer for 10 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and when the contents have cooled a little stir in the sand, and stir occa- sionally until nearly cold, to prevent the sand