181 VEGETABLES AND SALADS even in shape. Arrange the slices of beetroot and potato neatly in a salad dish, sprinkling them with the parsley and shallot. Pour the dressing slowly over and keep in a cool place for £ hour before serving. Note.—A little lettuce, endive, or hard-boiled egg may be used as a garnish, and chopped capers or pickled gherkins sprinkled over. Potatoes also make a very good salad by themselves, or tomatoes peeled and cut in slices may be used instead of the beetroot. 666. Salmon Salad (Salade de Saumon) Take the remains of cooked salmon, remove from them all skin and bone and break up the fish into flakes. Pile it up in a salad dish in the form of a pyramid, and coat it with mayonnaise sauce or with salad dressing (Recipe 749). Allow this to stand in a cool place for | hour at least, then decorate round the base with some small curly lettuce leaves and sections of hard-boiled egg, and stand the heart of the lettuce on the top. Finely sliced radish, tomato, or cress may also De used for gar- nishing. 667. Tomato Salad (Salade de Tomates) 3 or 4 tomatoes. | 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. | Salad dressing. No. 748. First peel the tomatoes. To do this either soak them in a basin of very hot water for two or three minutes, or put them in a wire basket and plunge them into boiling water for a minute. The latter method is better, it does not soften the tomatoes so much. Remove the skins very carefully with a small knife, and allow the tomatoes to become quite cold before cutting them up. Then slice them rather thinly, and if large, cut the slices in two. Place these slices very neatly on a salad dish, sprinkling them with chopped parsley and shallot. Pour the dressing over. Notes.—Mayonnaise sauce may be used instead of the plain salad dressing, and the shallot may be omitted. Very small tomatoes may be skinned and served whole, placing them on lettuce leaves and pouring a little mayonnaise or tartare sauce over. 668. Tomato and Celery Salad (Salade de Tomates et de Celeri) Tomatoes. Celery. | Small cress or chervil. Mayonnaise sauce. | Lettuce. Select nice round tomatoes of equal size. Wipe them, scoop out from the stalk end all the seedy centre and turn them upside down to drain. Take some white pieces of celery, wash and dry them well and then shred them very finely. Mix them with some mayonnaise sauce and fill up the insides of tomatoes with this. Pile the mixture rather high in the centre, put a little bunch of small cress or a sprig of chervil on the top, and serve each tomato on a nice crisp lettuce leaf or on chopped aspic jelly. Note.—Different mixtures may be put inside the tomatoes instead of the celery,—such as small pieces of cauliflower, green peas, French beans, salsifys, or a mixture of vegetables. 669. Turkey Salad Cooked turkey. Celery. I Mayonnaise sauce. 1 or 2 hard boiled eggs, j Lettuce. Cut the remains of cold cooked turkey into small neat pieces and mix it with about half the amount of crisp celery finely shred. Add also a few slices of hard-boiled egg and mix lightly with a little mayonnaise sauce. Put this mixture into a salad Turkey Salad dish, arranging it in a dome-shaped mound. Smooth it over with a knife and coat with some more mayonnaise sauce. Sprinkle with chopped parsley or cress and garnish round with leaves of lettuce, or with curled celery and watercress.