COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 640 Fricandelles—Small steaks of game or veal, gener- ally braised. Fricassee—A kind of stew, generally white, and the sauce thickened with yolks of eggs and cream. Future—The deep fat used for frying, also applied to the articles fried in the fat. Fumet—Essence of meat, game, fish, &c. Galantine—Meat or poultry boned and stuffed, glazed or coated with sauce, and served cold. Galette—A kind of light roll or bun. Garbure—A very plain soup, generally made of bread and vegetables. Gdteau—A cake, or a dish made in the form of a cake. Gaufre—A biscuit-like cake made in a special kind of mould. Gelee—Jelly. Gibier—Game. Gibolette—A stew or fricassee of rabbit. Glace—An ice. Glace—Iced, glazed, or frozen. Glace de viande—Glaze. Gout—Taste. Gras (au)—With meat or meat gravy. Gratiner—To brown in oven or under grill. Grenadin—Small pieces of veal or other meat larded and braised. Hache—Cold meat minced or cut in small pieces. Hdtelets—Silver skewers, used for holding meat together. Hors-d'oeuvre—Small tasty “tit-bits,” served before the soup to give an appetite. Irlandaise (a la)—In the Irish style, generally with potatoes in it. Italienne (a la)—In the Italian way, generally with macaroni or Italian paste and tomatoes. Jardiniere (A la)—Served with a garnish of vege- tables. Julienne [A la)—Served with a garnish of vege- tables cut in fine shreds. Jus—Juice or gravy. Kabobs—Small pieces of meat, highly seasoned, fixed on a skewer, and generally grilled or braised. Kari (en)—Served in a curry sauce. Kromeskis—A savoury mixture of meat or fish wrapped in bacon, then dipped in batter and fried. Kugelhopf—A kind of German cake. Larder or Piquer—To lard. Lardons—Lardoons, the pieces of bacon used for larding. Liaison—A mixture of eggs and cream for thicken- ing soups and sauces. Luting—A paste of flour and water used for fasten- ing the fids on pie and terrine moulds. Macedoine—A mixture of vegetables or fruit cut in small pieces or dice. Madeleine—A small French cake similar to a sponge- cake. Maitre d'hdtel (A la)—Applied to dishes in which parsley is the principal flavouring. Marinade—A mixture of oil, wine or vinegar, vegetables, herbs, &c., in which meat or fish is soaked to make it tender before cooking. Masquer—To coat a dish with sauce; to line a mould with jelly. Matelote—A stew of fish, generally flavoured with herbs and wine. Menu—Bill of fare. Mets—The dishes of which the menu is composed. Mijoter—To simmer; to cook slowly. Minute (A la)—Applied to a dish that is cooked very quickly. Mirepoix—A mixture of vegetables and seasonings, which form the foundation of a sauce, or for braising purposes. Mirletons—Small fancy tartlets. Mitonner—To cook slowly and for a long time. Mortfier—To hang a joint or bird until it is tender. Mouiller—To moisten. Mousse—Something fight and spongy. Napper—To cover ; to coat. Navarin—A stew of mutton in which turnips form one of the principal ingredients. Neige (A la)—Like snow; white of egg beaten stiffly. Nouilles—Nudels or noodles; a kind made with flour, water, and eggs ; cut in strips and boiled, it somewhat resembles macaroni. Oreilles—Ears. Orangeat—Candied orange peel. Orly (A la)—Applied to meat or fish, which is mari- naded, dipped in a rich batter, and fried: generally accompanied with tomato sauce. Pailles—Straws; en pailles, in the shape of a straw. Pain—Bread. Pain d'Fpice—A kind of spiced bread. Panache—A mixture in colour or kind. Panade—A paste of flour and liquid, or bread and liquid used for binding. Paner—To egg and bread-crumb. Pannequet—A pancake. Panurette—A preparation of rusk or biscuit crumbs. Papillotes (en)—Cooked in buttered paper. Paprika—Red Hungarian pepper, not so hot as cayenne. Pdte Brise—Short crust. P&te A Frire—Batter for frying. Pdtisserie—Pastry and cakes. Paupiettes—Fillets of meat or fish rolled up with stuffing. Petit Lait—Skim milk. Petits Fours—Small pastries or fancy biscuits used for tea or dessert. Piece de resistance—The principal dish in a dinner. Pimento—Allspice. Piquer—To lard with bacon or truffles. Pluche—Parsley, tarragon, and chervil, &c., cut in fine shreds as a garnish for soup. Potage—Soup. Praline—Burnt almonds used for flavouring. Printanniere (A la)—With a garnish of spring vege- tables. Profiterole—Very small balls of pastry used for garnishing soup.