203 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES land it requires more preparation and many hours’ boiling. It is very tender and easily digested, and for this reason is frequently ordered for invalids. There are several diilerent kinds of tripe popularly known as “ honeycomb,” “ blanket,” “ double ” or “ book ” (because it is like the leaves of a book), and “ reed,” the dark-coloured portion. Liver.—This is a cheap piece, and is nutritious for those who can digest it. It requires careful cooking. Kidneys.—Used for making soup. Can also be stewed, although rather indigestible. Sweetbread.—In the ox this part is coarse, and can only be made palatable by careful cooking. VEAL Veal, which is the flesh of the calf, is cut up into the following different joints : (mock turtle soup) and the feet for making soup and jelly (calf’s foot jelly). Sweetbread.—This is considered a great delicacy, and is generally expensive. It is much used for entrees, and is a favourite dish for invalids. The throat sweetbread, which is the thymus gland of the calf, is considered inferior in quality to the heart sweetbread or pancreas. Kidney.—Generally sold along with a piece of the loin and roasted. Can also be used separately in the same way as sheep’s kidneys. Brains.—A very delicate morsel for entrees. Liver and Heart.—Can be used in the same way as sheep’s liver and heart. MUTTON The following diagrams will give an idea of the different joints into which mutton is cut; 1. Loin. 2. Chump end of Loin. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind knuckle. 5. Fore knuckle. 6. Neck (best end) 7. Shoulder. 8. Blade bone. 9. Breast. 10. F’lank. 11. Head. 1. Leg. 2. Loin. 3. Chump end of the Loin. 4. Neck (best end). 5. Scrag. 6. Shoulder. 7. Breast. 8. Head. 9. Shank. 10. Trotter. The Fillet.—One of the finest pieces, very fleshy, with little or no bone. Can be used for any pur- pose. The best cutlets are cut from this part. It is high priced, but not over-expensive, as there is practically no waste. The Breast.—If boned, stuffed, and rolled this part makes a nice little joint for roasting. It can also be braised or stewed. Entrees are also pre- pared from this piece. The Loin.—One of the best pieces for roasting, also for chops. The Neck.—A good joint for braising or stewing. Can also be roasted. The best end may be cut into chops. The scrag-end is more suitable for broth. Knuckle.—This is a favourite part for soup or broth, and is much used in the making of white stock. The fore-knuckle is more tender than the hind-knuckle, and is often stewed or boiled and served with a good sauce. Head and Feet are sometimes served together as a hash, but, being rather insipid in flavour, they require a good sauce. They can also be used for pies, when some ham should be added, and for different entries. The head is also used for soup Diagram showing mode of cutting up a Sheep in Scotland 1. Leg or Gigot. | 4. Breast. 2. Loin. 5. Neck. 3. Back Ribs. I 6. Head. The Leg.—This is one of the most economical cuts for boiling or roasting, as it is lean with a