COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 457 and put it into a forcing bag. Fill up the pastry cases with this, piling it rather high. Soak a piece of angelica in hot water, and when soft cut some thin strips and fix them across the baskets to form handles. Serve on a lace-edged paper. Note.—The tops of the baskets look very pretty, if decorated with a little pink or white icing. Probable cost, 1 \d. to 2d. each. 2063. Meringues with Cream (Meringues a la Creme) 3 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. 9 oz. castor sugar. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Put the whites into a large basin, add a pinch of salt, and with a wire whisk beat them to a very stiff froth. Sieve the sugar, and mix it in gently and lightly with an iron or silver spoon. Place a sheet of white paper over a wooden board, or baking sheet of iron, in readiness to place the meringues for baking. To Shape the Meringues.—Two dessert-spoons, a palette knife, and a jug or basin of cold water will be required. Take up a spoonful of the meringue mixture in a wet spoon, and with a palette knife, also wet, smooth it quickly over, piling it high in the centre and pointed at the two ends. With the second spoon scoop the meringue out, and place it on the prepared tin or board. Or, the meringue mixture may be put into a forcing bag, and the shapes forced out on the tin. Leave a space of \ inch between each meringue, and sprinkle them with fine sugar. Place them in a very gentle oven until they are crisp and delicately tinted golden. Turn the paper, on which the meringues have been baked, upside down upon the table; moisten the paper on the back with a brush dipped in cold water ; 5 minutes later the meringues will come off easily. Make each meringue hollow by pressing with the finger on its centre, place them back on the tin, and put them again in the oven for a few minutes to dry. Whip the cream until thick, sweeten and flavour it. Fill the meringues with this, putting two pieces together, and pile them on a glass or silver dish. Notes.—In making meringues the stiff beating of the whites of eggs is essential, but it is equally essential that this beating should cease directly the right consistency is attained, or a broken curdled appearance will be the result, and the mixture will be close and heavy. As soon as the egg froth stands up in solid points on the withdrawal of the whisk, or will allow itself to be divided with a knife into two separate halves, stop beating. The oven will be suitable for cooking meringues when it has cooled down after other use, or when the fire is allowed to get quite low. One of the main factors in making meringues is their prolonged and thorough drying in a cool oven. Instead of baking them on paper, warm an ordinary baking tin, rub the bottom of it all over with white wax, and cook the meringues on that. Meringues may be stored in a tin and kept for use at any time. For the filling, any flavouring or liqueur may be added to the cream, or small pieces of fresh fruit may be mixed in; or a little jam may be put in the meringue case first and then the cream. The cream may also be coloured pink with a little carmine. 2064. Mushroom Meringues (Champignons Meringues) Make the meringue mixture and prepare two tins as above. Put the meringue mixture into a forcing bag with a pipe J inch in diameter. Force it out on to one of the tins in pieces the size of the top of a mushroom. Then on to the other tin force an equal number of smaller pieces to repre- sent the stalks. Dredge well with icing sugar, and bake in a very slow oven until set and of a fawny colour. When ready, remove the meringues from the oven, and make a small round hole in the bottom of the large ones. Brush the bottom over with white of egg, and dip in grated chocolate. Brush over the stalks also with white of egg, and dip them in chocolate. Fix them into the holes with a little white of egg and icing sugar. Whip some cream, and sweeten and flavour it to taste. Put it into a forcing bag, and force out on a crystal or china dish, arranging the meringues prettily on the top. 2065. Meringued Apples (Pommes MeringuSes) 6 or 7 apples. f Meringue. Sugar. Water. J 3 whites of eggs. Lemon juice. j £ lb. castor sugar. Choose well-shaped apples of equal size. Peel and core them, keeping them whole. Cook them in a syrup of sugar and water, being careful they do not break. Lift them out of the syrup when ready, and let them cool. The apples should be under rather than overdone, as they will soften still further when returned to the oven with tbe meringue. Place them on a waxed or oiled tin, leaving a little space between each, and proceed to make the meringue according to directions given above. Put the meringue mixture into a forcing bag, and force it out round and over each apple, covering them entirely. Sprinkle with sugar, and return to a slow oven until the meringue Forcing Bag and Pipe is crisp and of a pale biscuit colour. Serve the apples on a crystal or silver dish, and decorate them with whipped and sweetened cream, or with small pieces of red-currant jelly. 2066. Meringued Apricots (Abricots Meringues) 1 doz. fresh apricots. | White of egg. £ lb. loaf sugar. Castor sugar. 1 pt. water. Angelica. Vanilla. I Rose leave's. Choose apricots or small peaches that are not quite ripe. Dip them one at a time in water that is almost boiling, and peel off the skin care- fully. Put the loaf sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them to a syrup, but not too thick. Place the apricots in this syrup, and cook them gently by the side of the fire until they feel tender when pressed between the fingers. "When ready, lift them out, allow them to drain a minute or two, then dip them in beaten white of egg and roll them in castor sugar. Place the apricots, when thus