419 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 1864. Batter for Frying, 4 (Pate a Frire) 2 oz. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 white of egg. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 2 table-sps. cream. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin and make a well in the centre. Put in the yolks of eggs and cream, mix the flour gradually into them and beat until smooth and light. Add the oil, allow the batter to stand for a short time, and lastly stir in the white of egg beaten to a stifl froth. 1865. Almond Fritters 2 oz flour. % pt. milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 oz. ground almonds. (Beignets aux Amandes) 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. Egg and bread-crumbs. Add the milk gradually to the flour, and then stir them over the fire until boiling. Add the butter, ground almonds, sugar, salt, and yolks of eggs, and cook for a few minutes longer. Then spread the mixture on a plate, and allow it to become quite cold. When firm, divide into small equal-sized pieces, and roll these upon a floured board into the shape of a cork. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry to a nice colour in boiling fat. Drain well, and roll in powdered sugar. A little grated chocolate may be mixed with the sugar. Serve these piled up on a hot dish. Allow l hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1866. American Fritters or Doughnuts 2 eggs. 4 table-sps. melted butter. 4 to 6 oz. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. salt. |pt. milk. | tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Flour to make a soft dough. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the eggs, and beat these two well together with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Then add the butter melted, the cinnamon, salt, baking powder, and milk. Sieve in by degrees enough flour to make a soft light dough, and knead very gently for a few minutes. Flour the baking-board and rolling-pin and roll the dough out one inch thick. Cut it into Doughnuts small circles or rings or strips, and twist them. Or the paste may be rolled out thinner, small rounds cut out, and two put together with a small spoonful of jam between. Wet round the edge of one piece of pastry, and press the two edges well together. Fry these fritters in boiling fat until they puff out to double their original size. Allow them to cook rather slowly, and fry a golden brown. Drain them on kitchen paper, and roll them in powdered sugar while still warm. Allow 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 9d. * 1867. Apple Fritters, 1 (Beignets aux Pommes) Frying batter 1 or 2. I Sugar. 2 or 3 apples. | Flavouring. Choose firm ripe apples ; rennets are best. Peel three or four, and cut them in slices an eighth of an inch in thickness. Then with a small round cutter stamp out the cores. Put the apple rings on a plate, and sprinkle them with sugar and grated orange or lemon rind, or if liked, a few drops of rum or brandy. Let them stand for a few minutes, then dip a round of apple in batter (see above). Apple Fritters Coat it well, lift it out with a skewer, and drop it into a saucepan of boiling fat. Repeat this with the other rounds of apple, but do not put more than six or seven pieces into the fat at one time, as they swell considerably in the cooking. Turn them over while in the fat, and let them fry a nice brown colour. Lift them out with a skewer or perforated spoon, and dry on sugared paper in a moderate oven until all are fried. Then serve them on a folded serviette or dish paper, the slices over- lapping. Allow 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1868. Apple Fritters, 2 (Beignets aux Pommes) Frying batter No. 3. 1 Sugar. 4 apples. I Lemon or orange juice. Make the batter according to directions given above. Peel, core, and chop the apples. Sprinkle them with sugar and a little lemon or orange juice. Let them stand a few minutes, and then mix them with the batter. Take up a spoon- ful of the mixture at a time, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Do not make the fritters too large, or they will not cook well in the centre, and test the first one before lifting the others from the fat. Sprinkle them with sugar and serve very hot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1869. Apple Fritters, 3 6 oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 14 table-sps. sugar. (Beignets aux Pommes) 2 small eggs. I oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. 1 cupful chopped apples. Put the butter and sugar into a basin and beat them together to a cream. Add the yolks of the eggs, then the sifted flour and milk by degrees.