489 ICES pare a souffle dish with a band of paper tied round it, pour the mixture into this, and freeze in an ice cave from 2 to 3 hours, or until sufficiently stiff. When ready, remove the paper, being careful not to drag it away, as the mixture is very light and might easily be damaged. Pin round the souffle a band of silver paper or a fine doyley, decorate the top with a few chopped pistachio nuts or ratafia crumbs, and serve at once. 2235. Biscuits Glacis 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs H oz. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. maraschino. 1J gills cream. 2 table-sps. browned and chopped almonds. Crystallised violets. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin with 1 table- spoonful maraschino or other liqueur, and whip them over hot water until thick, and then until cold, in the same way as directed for Iced Souffle. Whip the cream and add 2 table-spoonfuls of it to the mixture. Fill little paper or china souffle cases with the mixture, and put them in the ice cave to freeze from 2| to 3 hours. When required, sprinkle the tops of the biscuits with the almonds, and decorate with the remainder of the cream, sweetened and flavoured, and a few crystal- lised violets. Sufficient for 12 or more souffles. 2236. Coffee Parfait (Parfait au Caf6) 4 yolks of eggs. Vanilla. 1 pt. black coffee. J pt. whipped cream. I lb. castor sugar. Put the yolks and sugar into a beating bowl with the coffee, which must be clear and good. Whisk over a saucepan of hot water until the mixture thickens; then remove it from the fire and continue Coffee Parfait to beat until cold and light. Mix in the cream, keeping back any liquid which has run from it. Turn into a freezing pot and leave packed in ice and salt for 2 or 3 hours. Serve in glass cups or goblets. BOMBES The term “ bombe ” indicates two or three differ- ent kinds of ice moulded together in what is known as a bomb-shaped mould. There is a large variety of these, but the foliowing should sufficiently illus- trate the mode of procedure, and enable others to be made in a similar manner by simply changing the kind and flavour of the ices used. Bombe Mould 2237. Bombe Espagnole Chocolate ice cream, li gills double cream. Sugar. Vanilla. 2 or 3 finger biscuits. A little kirsch. Make some chocolate ice cream as directed in Recipe 2199. Whip the cream, sweeten it to taste, and flavour with vanilla. Cut the finger biscuits into small pieces, and soak them with a little kirsch. Take a plain ice mould, place in ice for a short time, and then line it with the chocolate ice cream. Fill the centre with the whipped cream and the pieces of soaked biscuits. The mould must bo perfectly full. Cover with paper, put on the lid, and seal round the join with lard or butter (see p. 485). Bury in ice for I hour at least. Then un- mould the bombe on a silver dish with a lace-edged paper under it. 2238. Bombe aux Fraises a la Crdme 1| pts. strawberry water 2 table-sps. sugar. ice. Vanilla. \ pt. cream. Whip the cream until thick, add the sugar, flavour with vanilla and set it on ice to become icy cold. Prepare the strawberry water ice accord- ing to Recipe 2192, freezing it very hard. Then take a plain bombe or melon mould, rinse it out with cold water, pack it in ice and salt, and fine it quickly with the strawberry water ice, reserving enough to cover the top. Put the whipped cream in the centre, and cover with the remainder of the water ice. Put a piece of white wetted paper on the top, then the lid, and seal round the join with lard. Cover the mould entirely with ice and salt, and leave to freeze at least 2 hours. Note.—It is a good plan to add 1 or 2 sheets of dissolved gelatine to the strawberry ice before freezing it. 2239. Bombe Frangaise Chocolate Ice. £ pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 or 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 2table-sps. water or milk Banana Mousse. 3 ripe bananas. Icing sugar. Juice of \ lemon. 1 table-sp. rum. 1 gill double cream. This is a moulded ice. A bombe mould is lined with chocolate ice cream, and the inside filled up