BREAKFAST DISHES 385 1663. Devilled Chicken Take any remains of cooked chicken, cut them in neat joints, and if possible remove the skin. Score the fleshy parts across to the bone and brush the pieces over with salad oil or melted butter. Then sprinkle them with curry powder, cayenne, and salt mixed together, and broil them (see p. 208) until nicely browned. Serve very hot, garnished with a little parsley or watercress. Note.—Mustard and chutney may be used in- stead of the curry and cayenne, or the joints of chicken may simply be spread with devil butter (Recipe 762). 1664. Chicken and Ham Kedgeree 1 cupful cooked rice. 1 cupful cooked chicken. 2 table-sps. minced ham. \ oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. Seasoning. 1 hard-boiled egg. Have the rice cooked as for curry and dry it well. Mince the chicken, removing from it all skin and pieces of sinew. Now melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a stewpan, put in the minced ham (uncooked if possible), and cook it a few minutes. Then add the chicken and rice, moisten with the tomato sauce or puree, season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and mix all together lightly with a fork. When thoroughly hot, serve piled up neatly on a hot dish, and garnish with the hard-boiled egg cut in 6 or 8 pieces. 1665. Kentucky Cod 1 lb. fresh cod. ] } lb. bacon. Oatmeal. 1 egg. ] Pepper. Salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish and cut it in pieces about 2 inches square. Season with pepper and salt, and then brush the pieces over with beaten egg and toss them in oatmeal. Pry the bacon and keep it hot, and then fry the fish in the bacon fat. Add more fat to the pan, if necessary, before putting in the fish, and fry the pieces a nice brown colour. Drain the fish when ready, pile it up on a hot dish, and serve garnished with the bacon. 1666. Cod’s Roe with Bacon Cut some cooked cod’s roe in slices about J inch in thickness, and coat them very lightly with flour seasoned with pepper and salt. Fry some small slices of bacon, and before they are too much cooked, lift them out and keep them warm. Now fry the slices of roe in the bacon fat, adding a little butter if necessary. Brown them nicely on both sides, then dish them neatly with the pieces of bacon round. 1667. Scalloped Cod Roe Cooked cod’s roe. I Butter. Bread-crumbs. | Seasoning. Grease some scallop shells rather liberally with butter and sprinkle them with a good coating of bread-crumbs. Then fill them with some cooked cod’s roe broken in small pieces, season with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind and cover with more bread-crumbs. Lay two or three small pieces of butter on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and thoroughly hot. Serve garnished with parsley and a small piece of cut lemon. Note.—A little white sauce mixed with the roe will be an improvement. 1668. Salt Cod Balls (Croquettes de Morue) | lb. cooked salt cod. £ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 table-sp. melted butter 1 egg. Pepper. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare and cook the fish as directed in Re- cipe 193, drain well and let it cool. Then pick it to pieces with two forks and shred it finely, remov- ing all skin and bone. Tnis is preferable to chop- ping with a knife, which would be inclined to make it heavy. Mix the prepared fish in a basin with the potatoes (sieved), season with pepper and if liked a little anchovy essence, and bind together with the melted butter and beaten egg. Form into balls, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands. Make the surface as smooth and free from cracks as possible. Then egg and bread-crumb the balls and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley. Caper or tomato sauce may be served separately. Note.—The above mixture may be made into round flat cakes instead of balls, and a nicely poached and well-drained egg placed on the top of each. 1669. Smoked Cod and Bacon 1 lb. smoked cod. £ lb. bacon. Soak the cod a few minutes, or longer if it is salt, in hot water, then dry it, remove any skin and cut it in pieces. Trim the bacon and cut it in con- venient-sized pieces. Then fry it and keep it warm over hot water. Now fry the pieces of cod in the bacon fat, adding a little butter if necessary. Cook it well on both sides and then dish it neatly with the pieces of bacon round. Notes.—This makes a very nice combination. Smoked haddock or ling may be prepared in the same way. 1670. Smoked Cod with Tomatoes 1 lb. smoked cod. 2 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. 1 oz. butter. Pepper. 1 cupful boiled rice. Wipe the fish and put it in a deep baking dish with boiling water to nearly cover it, and cook it in the oven, or on the top of the stove, from 10 to 12 minutes. Then remove any bones and break the flesh in flakes or small pieces. Peel and slice the tomatoes and have the parsley finely chopped. Have ready also one cupful of rice boiled as for curry. Now melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the tomatoes and cook them a minute or two. Then add the fish, parsley, and seasoning, and mix lightly until all is thoroughly hot. Arrange the rice in a border on a hot dish and put the fish, &c., in the centre. Serve very hot. 1671. Curry Toast 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Coralline pepper. Hot buttered toast. 1 cupful cold curry. 2 eggs. Seasoning. Take the remains of any cold curried meat, lift out the meat from the sauce and chop it finely. 2 B