400 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin and boil for 3 hours. Or, if preferred, the mixture may be baked, when it will only require about 14 hours. A custard, ginger, or any suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—This makes a very nice light pudding, and if a glassful of sherry is added to the mixture, it will make a good substitute for Xmas plum pudding. It will keep for a month at least after boiling. Probable cost. Is. 1755. Castle or Cup Puddings 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. 4 tea-sp. baking powder. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. Make the mixture according to directions given for Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), adding flavour- ing to taste. Have ready greased seven or eight small cups or dariole moulds, half fill them with Castle Puddings the mixture and steam or bake the puddings until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn them out when ready and serve with jam sauce poured round. The moulds may, if liked, be decorated with a few small pieces of cherry. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1756. Chelsea Pudding J lb. flour. J lb. suet. | lb. bread-crumbs. £ lb. raisins. A pinch of salt. J lb. currants. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 tea-cupful treacle. 1 cupful milk. Chop the suet finely and mix it in a basin with the bread-crumbs, flour, salt, and baking powder. Mix well together with the tips of the fingers, and add the currants and raisins carefully prepared. Make a well in the centre, add the treacle slightly warmed, and then the milk by degrees. Beat all together and then pour into a well-greased mould. Cover with greased paper and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with sauce. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1757. Cherry Pudding, l 4 lb. flour. J lb. suet. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 4 pt. milk. | lb. fresh cherries. A few bread-crumbs. Sieve the flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder into a basin, add the suet finely chopped, then the eggs well beaten and the milk by degrees. Beat the mixture well, and, lastly, add the cherries, which have been stalked and stoned, and carefully wiped. Pour the mixture into a basin that has been well greased and sprinkled with bread-crumbs, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Serve with wine sauce. Time to steam, 24 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10c?. 1758. Cherry Pudding, 2 4 lb. fresh cherries. 24 oz. brown bread- crumbs. Grated rind of 4 lemon. 14 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk or cream. 2 eggs. 1 oz. loaf sugar. The juice of 4 lemon. | gill of water. Put the bread-crumbs, sugar, and grated lemon rind into a basin. Wash, pick, and stone the cherries, and add three-quarters of them to the bread-crumbs, &c. Boil the milk or cream, and pour it over the crumbs and fruit. Add the yolks of eggs, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin, cover with buttered paper, and steam slowly and steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. Make a sauce with the remainder of the cherries, water, lemon juice, and loaf sugar. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, and boil gently from ten to fifteen minutes. Add two or three drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour. Turn the pudding carefully on to a hot dish, and pour the sauce round it. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1759. Chestnut and Custard Pudding 24 chestnuts. 1 gill water. Rind of 4 lemon. 4 pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 2 oz. sugar. Caramel. 3 oz. loaf sugar. 4 gill water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wash the chestnuts and make a slit in the shell of each with a knife. Put them into a saucepan of hot water, and boil them for 10 minutes. Then drain them, and peel off both the shell and the inner skin. Put the chestnuts thus prepared into a saucepan with the water, lemon rind, and sugar, and stew them until soft and nearly dry. Then rub them through a wire sieve. Make the caramel according to directions in Recipe 1749, and line a plain mould with it. Make a custard with the eggs, sugar, and milk. Beat up the yolks and whites of eggs in a basin with the sugar. Heat the milk almost to boiling point, and pour it over them, stirring all the time ; then strain, and allow it to cool. Add the chestnut puree to the custard, and fill up the mould which has been lined with the caramel. Cover with greased paper, and steam very slowly until firm to the touch. Serve with wine or mousseline sauce. Time to steam, 14 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1760. Chocolate Pudding, 1 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 5 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk. 2 eggs. A few drops of vanilla. A pinch of cinnamon. Cut the chocolate in small pieces and dissolve it slowly in the milk, or if chocolate powder is used. ■9