584 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2810. St. George’s Cake | lb. flour. 6 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. A little milk. 2 oz. candied peel. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. lard. £ lb. currants. 2 tea-sps. baking powder £ oz. carraway seeds. Sieve the flour, sugar, and ginger into a basin, and add the butter and lard. Rub together very lightly with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps, and then add the currants cleaned and picked, the candied peel finely shred, the carraway seeds, and the baking powder. Mix lightly together, and make a well in the centre with a wooden spoon. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add a little milk (about \ a gill) to the yolks. Add these to the dry ingredients, and mix all together quickly and lightly. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until the cake is nicely browned, and feels dry when tested with a skewer. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, la. 2d. 2811. Sand Cake \ lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. I lb. ground rice. | lb. potato flour. £ lb. ordinary flour. 3 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar until light, then add the yolks of eggs, the ground rice, and the two flours finely sifted with the baking powder. Lastly add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour into a cake tin which has been greased and dusted out with a mixture of flour and sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 2812. Jam 3 eggs; their weight in butter, flour, and sugar. Sandwich, 1 A few drops of vanilla or other flavouring. 2 or 3 table-sps. jam. Put the butter and sugar into a warm basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until they are of a light creamy consistency (the success of the cake will depend very much upon this being well carried out). Add one egg and a little flour, and beat them lightly in; then a second egg and Sandwich Cake Tins some more flour, and beat again; then lastly the third egg, and the remainder of the flour with the flavouring. When all are blended, pour the mix- ture into two sandwich cake tins that have been lined with paper, and bake in a good oven. When the cakes are nicely browned and cooked through, turn them out on a sheet of sugared paper, and when cool, spread one with jam, and place the other on the top. Note.—A plainer jam sandwich may be made by using mixture given in Recipe 2832. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2813. Iced Sandwich Cake, 2 } lb. sugar. A small glass of rum. 3 oz. butter. Some red jam. 1| oz. flour. 1 \ oz. potato flour. 5 eggs. Grated rind of \ lemon. Icing.—1 dessert-sp. orange or lemon juice, about \ lb. icing sugar, \ glass rum. Put the butter into a small lined saucepan, and let it melt slowly by the side of the fire. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the yolks of eggs and grated lemon rind, and mix them together with a wooden 6poon or wire whisk until they are light and creamy. Then have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and the two flours sieved together. Add these alter- nately and very lightly to the other mixture. Then skim the butter, and add it last of all with the rum. Pour the mixture into two sandwich cake tins that are lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When the cakes are ready, turn them out on sugared paper, and allow them to cool. Then spread one piece with jam, and cover with the other. Spread a thin layer of jam on the top, and then coat with the icing. To make the icing, put the rum and fruit juice into a basin. Sieve the sugar, and add it gradually to the liquid, until the icing is of a suit- able consistency to coat the cake. Beat the icing until it is quite smooth, then spread a thin even layer over the cake. Place the cake in an open oven for a minute to give the icing a gloss. Note.—The rum may be omitted if the flavour is objected to. Time to bake, about \ hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2814. Savoy Cake l lb. castor sugar. 21 oz. Vienna flour. 1 j oz. potato flour. 7 eggs. Grated rind of I orange. Grated rind of 1 lemon. A pinch of salt. Put the sugar and yolks into a basin with the grated orange and lemon rinds. Work well with a wooden spoon or wire whisk from 15 to 20 minutes until the mixture looks light and creamy. Sieve and warm the flour, and add it last with the whites of eggs beaten very stiffly. Prepare a mould as for a sponge cake (p. 551), fill it three-quarters full, putting the mixture in care- fully in spoonfuls. Place the mould on a baking sheet with a layer of sand under it, and bake in a good oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. Turn it out of the mould as soon as it is taken from the oven, and dust with sugar. Note.—This is a plainer form of sponge cake, used principally for fancy sweets and gdteaux. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, Is.