COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 24 carefully considered, and funds should not be frit- tered away on useless trifles, which have no real value. The aim should be to obtain good material of its kind, always remembering that it is never economical to buy goods of an inferior quality in order to save a few pence. Of course it requires some experience to do marketing well, and the art cannot be acquired in a day. The young housekeeper will be liable to make mistakes at first, in not knowing how to choose nor what to order, but the knowledge will soon come, if only a little common sense and good- will are applied to it. There is no reason, however, why experience should be gained by mistakes alone, there are other and less expensive ways of learning how to do marketing. Girls at home should be taken round the shops occasionally and be shown how to select the different articles required, and then later on given the opportunity of doing the shopping themselves. Where this has not been possible, special lessons on marketing can often be had from one of the numerous schools of cookery, or, failing this, a little diligent study of a book on the subject will often be an immense help to the practical as well as the theoretical side of the sub- ject, and will prevent one from being entirely at the mercy of the tradespeople. Choice of Shops.—When starting housekeeping for the first time, or moving to a new neighbourhood, it is always worth while to take some trouble at the beginning in finding the best shops with which to deal. As a rule, it will be found the most con- venient plan to patronise the shops in one’s im- mediate neighbourhood. Not only is this fair to local tradespeople, who will generally take trouble to serve you well, but it will be a saving of time as well, and when things are not right they can be spoken about at once. Sometimes at the begin- ning it is a good plan to distribute one’s custom a little, until it is found out who gives the most satisfaction: one class of goods will be best in one shop, and another elsewhere. It is always best to deal with thoroughly good shops and reliable tradespeople, and not to be continually hunting after the cheapest market. This is especi- ally necessary for the young and inexperienced housekeeper, who has yet to learn how good fish, meat, vegetables, &c., ought to look; in fact, it is only the very experienced who can afford to shop in less high-toned markets, where they can occa- sionally pick up a bargain. On the other hand there are some shops which have an exaggerated scale of prices, their standard being based partly on reputation, partly on high rent, and also on the fact that they cater for a wealthy class of customers, who do not trouble to question prices, but pay whatever is demanded of them. This class of shop must be avoided by those of modest means, there are plenty others where they can do just as well at more reasonable prices, although it must always be remembered that it is false economy to buy food of an indifferent quality. It is a good plan to compare two or three differ- ent price lists, and thus to get a fair idea of how prices run in a certain neighbourhood. Then choose by preference shops where there is likely to be a good turnover, as then goods are much more likely to be fresh. This applies specially to groceries and other dry stores,which can be kept from year to year in shops where there is very little trade, until they become quite old and musty. Then be most particular as to the way in which the goods are kept, that the conditions are orderly and cleanly, that they are not exposed to the dust and dirt of the street nor placed where they can be handled by any passers-by. Insist also that such articles as bread and meat be delivered carefully covered or wrapped in paper. The way in which our bread is often delivered is a disgrace to civilisation—carried in an open basket (perhaps not too clean) through the dusty streets and then passed from one pair of dirty hands to another before it finally reaches its destination— and bread above all things, which cannot undergo any preliminary washing or wiping like meat and vegetables. The state of the dairy must also be very care- fully looked into, to see that milk is kept under thoroughly sanitary conditions and then delivered in a cleanly manner. When a fixed quantity is sent every day, it is best to have it delivered in sealed bottles. The proper hygienic delivery of our food is not sufficiently insisted on, and if mistresses themselves were only more particular on this point the trades- people would be obliged to conform. Personal Shopping.—Although the introduction of the telephone into many of our modern houses has reduced the labour of shopping to a minimum, this is a luxury which cannot always be indulged in without leading to extravagance, or in having an inferior class of goods delivered to us. The same would apply to orders given to message boys at the door. All domestic economists agree in telling us that the mistress of the house or housekeeper should do her own shopping, not necessarily every day, but certainly occasionally. By this means the tradesmen get a better idea of her likes and dis- likes, and can generally serve her better. Variety will also be suggested by what is seen in the shops, and a knowledge of what is in season more quickly gained. A personal visit to the butcher’s is speci- ally advantageous from time to time, as a better joint or a suitable piece of meat is more likely to be obtained if it is carefully selected, cut, and weighed under supervision, than when it is simply left to the butcher’s discretion. At the fishmonger’s too, a personal visit is a wise plan, as the price of fish varies so much, and even from day to day according to the weather and other circumstances. The more plentiful kind will always be the cheapest for the time being, and it will generally be found that it is the best as well. It is important also to do this shopping as early in the day as possible, as there is generally a better selection in the shops in the forenoon, and provisions are fresher. If this personal shopping cannot be managed, and a telephone is not available to give one’s orders direct to the tradespeople, a duplicate order-book should be used and verbal orders not given hap- hazard to message boys. A separate list for each tradesman should be written out in duplicate form, giving exact quantities required and price if possible. The tradesmen can then send for their orders, one list being given to them and the other retained for reference and for the purpose of check- ing the house books.