575 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 2759. Walnut Macaroons 3 oz. shelled walnuts. 1£ oz. sweet almonds. £ lb. castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour, 2 or 3 whites of eggs. 1 tea-sp. orange flower water, or a few drops lemon juice. Wafer paper. Blanch the almonds, and put them through a nut-mill with the walnuts, or chop them all finely. Then pound the nuts in a mortar with the orange flower water or lemon juice, and, when smooth, add the rice flour, and sugar. Moisten with the whites of eggs, using only two to commence with and the third, or part of it, if required. Work the mixture well until light and creamy-looking, then put it into a forcing bag with a £-inch pipe at the end of it. Force out the mixture on wafer paper in pieces about the size of half a crown, and bake in a very moderate oven until crisp and lightly browned. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2760. Wheaten Meal Biscuits 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. wheaten meal. 1 oz. sugar, or £ tea-sp. salt. 1£ oz. butter. A pinch of baking powder. £ egg. A little water or milk. Make according to directions given for Oatmeal Biscuits (Recipe 2750). Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. and beat with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the flour and whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix these two very lightly with the other mixture, and just at the last. Have a cake tin prepared according to directions given on p. 551; half fill it with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 40 to 50 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2763. Angel Cake 2 oz. Vienna flour. 1 tea-sp. cream of tar- tar. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. orange flower water. 6 whites of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. Dry and sieve the flour two or three times with the cream of tartar. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and beat them to the stiffest pos- sible froth. Well sieve the sugar, and mix it very lightly in. Then the flour and cream of tartar in the same way, and lastly the flavouring. Do not stop the beating after the mixing is begun, and keep the mixture as light as possible. Bake in a floured and ungreased tin, and in a moderate oven. Test the cake with a fine skewer before removing it from the oven, and do not allow it to become too brown. When ready, turn the cake upside down on a sheet of paper, and leave it until the tin can be slipped off quite easily. The cake may be iced with fondant or glac4 icing if desired. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, without icing, 6d. PART IV LARGE CAKES 2761. Almond Cake 7 oz. flour. 3 eggs. £ lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. £ lb. sweet almonds. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Blanch and shred the almonds, reserving a few split halves to put on the top of the cake. Place them on a tin near the fire to become thoroughly dry. Then cream the butter and sugar in a basin, and when ready add the eggs and flour finely sifted, by degrees. Beat the mixture well until light and frothy, then add almond flavouring, or a little grated orange or lemon rind, and stir in the shredded almonds and the baking powder at the last. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, cover the top with half almonds, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hours. Probable cost, Is. 2762. Almond Sponge Cake 1 lb. castor sugar. 2£ oz. sweet almonds. 2 bitter almonds. 2 oz. Vienna flour. 7 eggs. 1 lemon rind grated. Blanch and chop the almonds rather finely. Put them into a mortar with one whole egg and the grated lemon rind, and pound until reduced to a fine paste. Then put the mixture into a basin, add the yolks of the other six eggs and the sugar, 2764. Apricot Cake I lb. fresh butter. | lb. castor sugar. 6 oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking pow- der. 2 yolks and 1 whole egg- 1 tea-sp. vanilla. 1 gill apricot syrup. 2 table-sps. apricot marmalade. Glaze. £ lb. sugar. 2 or 3 table-sps. apricot syrup. Saffron. 2 or 3 preserved or crystallised apricots. To Make the Cake.—First beat the butter to a cream and add the sugar (see p. 552). Add the egg and yolks by degrees, and mix them well in. Sieve the flour with the baking powder and add it gradually and alternately with 1 gill of syrup from a tin of apricots. Beat well together, and then bake the mixture in two flat tins, which have been greased and lined with paper. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned and well cooked, then turn out on a sugared paper and allow the cakes to cool. Make some apricot marmalade by rubbing a few pieces of apricot through a fine sieve and then boiling the puree with an equal quantity of sugar. When thick, turn on to a plate to cool. Spread the cakes with this marmalade, and put one on the top of the other. If the cakes are thick they may be split, and another layer of the apricot marmalade put between. To Make the Glaze.—Put the sugar and apricot syrup into a saucepan, and boil them together until fairly thick, then colour an apricot yellow with saffron, and allow the syrup to cool. When luke- warm, pour it slowly over the cake, covering the top and sides. Decorate with pieces of crystal-