COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 470 Put them into a preserving pan and just cover them with cold water. Bring to the boil and then allow them to simmer until they are well broken, stirring occasionally. Strain through a jelly bag, and allow them to chip all night. Next day measure the juice, and return it to a clean preserving pan. Add to it 1 lb. of sugar to each pint of juice. Stir until the sugar is melted, then boil from 15 to 20 minutes or until it jellies. Skim well and pot (see p. 466). 2136. Gooseberry Marmalade Gooseberries. Water. Sugar. Wash the gooseberries (it is not necessary to top and tail them), put them into a preserving pan,allow- ing J gill of water to each quart, and let them cook until quite soft and pulpy. Then rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Measure this pulp, and weigh off 1 lb. of sugar for each pint. Put the sugar with enough water to moisten it into a preserving pan, bring them to the boil, skim if necessary, and then boil quickly until they reach the hard ball stage or 247° Fahr. (see p. 597). Then add the gooseberry pulp, and boil both together until the marmalade will set. Pot and cover in the usual way. 2137. Gooseberry and Red-currant Jam To 3 lbs. red gooseberries allow 1 gill red-currant juice and 3£ lbs. sugar. Top and tail the gooseberries and remove any that are unsound. Wash them thoroughly, and dry in a coarse cloth. Put them into a preserving pan with red-currant juice (see below) in the above proportion. Heat the contents slowly over the fire and then boil for 15 minutes. Add the sugar gradually, and boil again until the jam will set. Skim when necessary. 2138. Greengage Jam Make in the same way as Apricot Jam (Recipe 2116). 2139. Lemon Marmalade Make in the same way as Orange Marmalade (Recipe 2143). 2140. Lemon Jelly Marmalade 3 lbs. lemons. 4 pts. cold water. Preserving sugar. Choose good fresh lemons with thin skins. Wash them carefully, and peel off the rind as thinly as possible. Now cut the yellow rinds across in thin strips or shreds, put these into a small sauce- pan with a pint of the water, and let them simmer until tender, about | hour. Meanwhile remove the white skin from the lemons (this is not used in the marmalade) and cut the inside juicy part in small pieces. Put this into the preserving pan with the remainder of the water, bring to the boil, and boil steadily about 1 hour, stirring frequently. Then strain through a fine hair sieve or jelly bag without pressing the fruit. When all the liquid has run through, add to it the lemon shreds and their liquid. Measure this and return it to a clean preserving pan, allowing § lb. sugar to each pint of liquid. Bring to the boil, and boil until the marmalade will set readily. Pour into jars and cover. 2141. Loganberry Jelly Loganberries. Water. Preserving sugar. Take as many loganberries as desired, pick off the stalks, and look over them carefully. Put them into a preserving pan with just sufficient water to keep them from burning, and cook them slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently. Then strain through a jelly cloth, or through a piece of muslin placed over a sieve. When every drop of juice has run through, measure it and return it to a clean preserving pan. Add 1 lb. of sugar to every pint of juice, and stand the pan in a warm place until the sugar is melted. Then bring to the boil, skim if necessary, and boil 20 minutes, or until the jelly will set. Pour into 6mall pots and cover in the usual way. 2142. Mulberry Jam 4 lbs. mulberries. I 1 pt. water or rhubarb 3 lbs. preserving sugar. | juice. 2 lemons. Choose mulberries that are still hard and rather unripe, remove the stalks, look over them care- fully, and wash if necessary. Put them into a preserving pan with the water or rhubarb juice, and let them stew slowly until soft and clear- looking. Then add the sugar, along with the strained juice and the grated rind of the 2 lemons, and bring slowly to the boil, stirring all the time. Boil until the jam ■will set, and remove any scum that rises. When ready, pour into pots and cover. 2143. Orange Marmalade 31 lbs. marmalade oranges. 3 lemons. 13J pts. cold water. 1 pt. boiling water. Sugar (see below). Wipe the oranges and lemons with a damp cloth, and cut them in halves. Squeeze out the juice on a lemon squeezer, and strain it into a basin. Put the pips into a smaller basin with the boiling water, and let them stand to extract the flavour. Cut the skins of both oranges and lemons into very thin strips, put them into a large basin or crock with the cold water, and let them soak 24 hours. Then pour into a preserving pan, and boil until the pieces of peel are quite tender. Put the seeds with their water into a smaller saucepan, and boil for 15 minutes; then strain the water from them into the preserving pan beside the rest. Pour again into the basin or crock, add the orange and lemon juice, and stand for at least 12 hours longer. Next day, measure, and allow 1 lb. of preserving sugar to each pint of liquid. Boil together in the perserving pan about 20 minutes, or until the marmalade will jelly. Then pour into pots, and cover while hot. 2144. Orange Jelly 4lbs.marmaladeoranges I 4J pts. water. 2 lemons. | Preserving sugar. Wipe the oranges and lemons with a damp cloth, and grate off the yellow rinds only. Then remove all the white skin, which is not used in the making of the jelly. Cut the inner part of the oranges and lemons into small pieces, and put it into a preserv- ing pan with the water. Boil for \ hour, stirring