SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 225 ;he mushrooms, carefully washed, peeled, and cut jq slices. Add half the butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and cook for about 10 minutes. Pour in enough light stock to cover the tripe and mushrooms, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until both are tender Add the tomato sauce, or a mpful of tomato puree made from tinned tomatoes rubbed through a fine sieve, and cook a few minutes longer. Arrange the stew neatly in a fireproof fish, sprinkle the bread-crumbs and cheese over ihe top, lay on the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and brown in the oven or under the prill of a gas stove. Note.—A little finely-chopped onion may be looked along with the tripe and mushrooms, if iked. Time to stew, \ to £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. PART III MUTTON AND LAMB 891. Boiled Mutton Mutton. Boiling water. I Caper, parsley, or onion Salt. Vegetables. | sauce. A leg, shoulder, or a piece of the neck are the jest pieces of mutton for boiling, as they are not ;oo fat. The joint should not be too small, or it vill be flavourless when cooked. Trim it care- ully, remove any superfluous fat, and joint it if lecessary. Then wipe the meat with a damp doth and weigh it. Boil it according to General Directions for Boiling (see p. 208), cooking a small quantity of nicely prepared vegetables along with it. Vhen the meat is quite tender, lift it on to a lot dish, mask it with one of the above sauces nade with some of the liquor in which the meat vas cooked, and garnish with the vegetables. Note.—The dish and plates on which mutton is lerved must always be very hot, as the fat is very lisagreeable when half cold. 892. Steamed Mutton When a small piece of mutton has to be cooked, iteaming is better than boiling, as none of the [uice of the meat is lost. Wipe and trim the meat sarefully and then weigh it. A piece of meat veighing from 1 to 2 lbs. is best. Put it into a louble saucepan or steamer, season with pepper md salt, and if liked add a small quantity of favouring vegetables. Steam until tender, aflow- ng about 1 hour per lb. of meat. If no steamer is ivailable, put the meat and seasonings into a basin, lover with a plate and stand in a saucepan with mo ugh boiling water to reach half-way up the sides. Serve in the same way as Boiled Mutton, using the iquid which has run from the meat to help with ihe sauce. 893. Roast Mutton The best joints for roasting are the leg (gigot in Scotland), loin, or shoulder. The saddle and haunch are also good, but these are large joints, xnd smaller roasts are more in favour nowadays. Mutton should be well hung before roasting, to make it tender. If a leg is selected, beat it well with a rolling-pin before putting it down to cook, as this will help to soften the fibres of the meat. Then wipe the meat carefully, trim it, and remove any superfluous fat. If a piece of the loin is selected, have it jointed between the bones to render the carving easier. Weigh the meat and then roast it according to general directions given on p. 207. As a rule mutton is liked well done, in any case it must not be served raw. A clear gravy (see p. 207) should be made to serve with it, and the meat must be served very hot. Red-currant, rowan, or cranberry jelly should be served separ- ately, and almost any vegetable in season may accompany it. If a leg of mutton is found too large a joint for a small family, it is a good plan to have it cut in two pieces, when half only need be roasted and the other piece boiled, braised, or cooked in some other way. 894. Loin of Mutton, Stuffed and Roasted 2 to 3 lbs. loin of mutton. I Seasoning. Veal stuffing. | Gravy. Remove the bones carefully from the loin. Then beat the meat and trim it neatly. Lay any good trimmings in the centre of the piece and season well with pepper and salt. Prepare some veal stuffing as directed in Recipe 1281, place it in the meat where the bone was removed. Roll up into a neat joint and secure firmly with tape or with a trussing needle and string. Now roast in the usual way (see p. 207), remove the string or tape before serving, and pour a clear gravy round. A green vegetable or tomatoes, and baked or mashed potatoes would be good accompaniments. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2 s. 6d. 895. Stuffed and Roast Shoulder of Mutton A shoulder of mutton. I Seasoning. Veal stuffing. I Gravy. As this is a somewhat troublesome joint to carve, it is always better if it can be boned before it is sent to table. When thus treated, and filled with a nice stuffing, it makes a very tasty dish. Some- times the butcher will remove the bones if requested, but if not, it is not a difficult thing to do. Lay the joint on a board with the skin side downwards, feel where the bones lie and cut down to them with a sharp-pointed knife. Remove them as cleanly as possible from the flesh, being careful not to pierce the skin on the other side, as this would disfigure the joint. Use the bones for making soup or stock. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and season it well with pepper and salt. Put the stuffing, which must not be too moist, inside, fold the flesh over it and sew up or bind with tape. Then weigh the joint and roast according to General Directions (see p. 207). When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the binding thread or tape, serve with a little clear gravy poured round, and more in a sauce boat. A silver skewer may be used to keep it in shape. Red-currant or cranberry jelly should be served separately, and baked or grilled tomatoes make a good accompaniment. Note.—Bread, sausage, oyster, or celery stuffing may be used instead of the above. P