SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 263 and simmer until half cooked. Then allow the water to boil away and add the rice and stock. Season with pepper and salt, cover, and cook in the oven about f hour, until both rice and onions are soft. Then sieve and allow the puree to cool. To Prepare the Cutlets.—Have them neatly trimmed, and cook them for a minute in butter on the one side only, and leave them to cool. Then coat the cooked side with the onion puree, and egg and bread-crumb the cutlets on both sides. Place them on a tin, sprinkle with a little butter, and cook 5 or 6 minutes in the oven until they are nicely browned. To Serve.—Arrange the cutlets neatly on a dish, and pour the sauce, to which a few mushrooms have been added, round. Note.—Small fillets of veal (escalopes de veau) may be prepared and cooked in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. a weight on the top until cold. Now trim the cutlets neatly, making them as much one size and shape as possible. Coat one side with potted foie gras, or any other farce preferred, being careful to keep them all lying one way, so that they will dish up neatly. Smooth over the layer of potted meat with a wetted knife, and place the cutlets on a v, ire draining stand. Have ready some thick mayonnaise sauce to which has been added either a little liquid aspic, or one or two sheets of dissolved gelatine. When this is beginning to set, coat the cutlets with it, covering them well. Decorate each with tiny rounds of red radish (to look like little berries) and one or two leaves of chervil. Then, if the cutlets are wished very glossy, run a little liquid aspic over the top of them. Place them on ice or in a very cold larder until wanted, then dish them up neatly on some pretty green salad. 1081. Cotelettes de Mouton a la Russe, Cold Mutton cutlets. Potted meat. Glaze. Mayonnaise sauce. Macedoine of vege- tables. Aspic jelly. Have the required number of cutlets cut from the best end of the neck of mutton, trim them only slightly, then either braise them or saut6 them in butter until sufficiently cooked. Press them until cold, and finish the trimming. Now coat them on one side with some nicely flavoured potted meat, smoothing it over with a wetted knife. Lay the cutlets on a draining tray and brush them over with liquid glaze, giving them Mutton Cutlets & la Xusse two or three coatings until sufficiently covered. Decorate them with a ring of white of egg, with a small round of truffle or red radish in the centre, or any other garnish preferred. When set, put a paper frill on the bone of each. Mix some mace- doine of vegetables with mayonnaise sauce, and arrange it neatly on a dish; place the cutlets on the top and garnish with chopped aspic jelly or a little green salad if preferred. 1082. Lamb Cutlets a la Mayonnaise (Cotelettes d’Agneau a la Mayonnaise) Lamb cutlets. Potted foie gras. Mayonnaise sauce. Aspic jelly. Radishes. Chervil. Green salad. Take the required number of lamb cutlets, braise them, or saute them in butter until sufficiently cooked, then press them between two plates with Epigrams of Mutton These are small round, oval, or cutlet-shaped pieces cut from the breast of mutton or lamb, that has been braised, boned, and pressed until cold. They are usually egged and bread-crumbed, or glazed and served with a good sauce and suitable garnish. They are sometimes dished up alternately with small trimmed cutlets. 1083. fipigrammes de Moutons aux Champignons 1-| lbs. breast otjnutton. Vegetables and stock for braising. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mushroom sauce. Potato puree. First prepare a bed of vegetables at the bottom of a stewpan (see Braising, p. 210). Pour in enough good stock to cover these vegetables, and warm all over the fire. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, lay it on the top of the vegetables, cover with greased paper, and put the lid on the pan. Let the meat cook for an hour or longer, until it is quite tender, basting it occasionally with the stock. When ready, lift it out, remove the bones, and press between two plates with a weight on the top until cold. Then cut the meat into neat round or oval pieces, and egg and bread-crumb them. Fry them in boiling fat until they are nicely browned, and drain well. Arrange the epigrams neatly on a border of potato puree put through a forcing bag, and pour some good mushroom sauce round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1084. fipigrammes de Mouton a la SoubDe 1J to 2 lbs. breast of mutton. Glaze. Soubise puree Green peas or French beans. Brown gravy. Cook and press the mutton as directed in last recipe. When cold, cut it in heart-shaped pieces with a cutter, then cut these pieces in two so that they resemble a cutlet in shape, and insert a small piece of bone into the narrow end of each. Reduce the stock in which the mutton was cooked until it forms a glaze. Place the pieces of meat on a tin or dish, and heat them in the oven, brushing them over once or twice with the glaze. Serve them on a bed of thick soubise puree or sauce (Recipe 1080), putting a small paper frill on each bone. A few French beans or green peas may be