COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 516 cheese, and laying on some small pieces of butter. Then coat the top with bread-crumbs and cheese mixed, also some more butter, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve very hot. Note.—Sometimes a cupful of white or tomato sauce is poured over the gniocchi before the coating of bread-crumbs is put on. 2415. Golden Buck Make in the same way as Welsh Rarebit (Recipe 2440), and serve with one or two poached eggs on the top. Golden Buck 2416. Ham and Eggs with Tomatoes 4 or 5 eggs. 4 or 5 slices of ham. Salad oil. 2 or 3 tomatoes. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. A pinch of thyme. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. First prepare the tomatoes. Peel them care- fully, cut them in two, squeeze out the seeds and watery part from the centre, and then cut the tomatoes themselves in rough pieces. Heat a dessert-spoonful salad oil or butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it slowly a few minutes, then add the prepared tomato, Ser, salt, and a pinch of powdered thyme. Cook reduced to a soft thick pulp, and add the chopped parsley at the last. Fry the eggs in salad oil until nicely browned, being careful to keep them of a uniform and compact shape. Lift them out of the pan as they are cooked and keep them warm. Have ready an equal number of thin slices of ham, and fry them lightly after the eggs. To Serve.—Arrange the ham and eggs alternately round a dish and put the tomato pulp in the centre. Note.—A little chopped pickle may be added to the tomato mixture if liked. 2417. Haricot Beans and Bacoa | lb. haricot beans. | Seasoning. \ lb. sliced bacon. ( Chopped parsley. Wash and soak the beans and cook them until tender, according to directions given in Recipe 613. When ready, drain as dry as possible. Cut the bacon in convenient-sized slices, fry it, and keep it hot. Then toss the beans in the bacon fat, season them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Pile up the beans on a hot dish, and arrange the bacon round. 2418. Hominy Fritters Cooked hominy. I Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Take some cooked hominy or hominy porridge (see Recipe 1643), spread it out on a dish or baking tin, and let it stand until cold. Then cut it in rounds or finger-shaped pieces, coat these lightly with flour, then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well and serve hot, piled up on a dish paper. These fritters may be made either sweet or savoury. If the former are wished, sweeten the hominy suffi- ciently, and add a little spice or flavouring before spreading it out to cool. Then sprinkle the fritters with sugar after frying. Jam or stewed fruit may be served separately. For savoury fritters, season the hominy well with pepper and salt and add a little grated cheese if wished. A little brown or tomato sauce may be served separately. 2419. Croustades of Kidney Make six pastry cases as directed in Recipe 2248, and, when baked, fill them with the same kidney mixture as for Kidney Toast (Recipe 1689). Sprinkle then with a little finely-chopped parsley or coralline pepper. 2420. Liver and Mushroom Toast J lb. calf’s liver, f- doz. mushrooms. 1 egg. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. gravy or cream. \ doz. round croutons of bread. Chopped parsley. Prepare the mushrooms and chop them roughly. Wash and dry the liver, and cut it in tiny dice. Then fry them in the butter until sufficiently cooked. Season rather highly with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Beat up the egg with the gravy or cream, pour into the saucepan, and mix all together quickly until the egg begins to thicken. Arrange this mixture neatly on rounds of fried bread, or hot buttered toast, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and re-heat in the oven for a minute or two. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. 2421. Marrow Bones Scrape and wash some marrow bones very clean and saw them in halves, or ask the butcher to do this for you. Half a marrow bone should be allowed for each person. Make a stiffish paste of flour and water, and roll it out on a floured board. Lay a piece of this paste over the ends of the bones in order to seal up the marrow, and then tie each bone in a small pudding cloth. Stand them upright in a saucepan of boiling salted water, and simmer slowly about 2 hours. The saucepan must be filled up with more boiling water if wanted. When readv, remove the cloth and the paste, and wipe the bones. Fasten a small serviette round each bone, and serve them upright on a hot dish. Neat pieces of crisp toast should be served separately, and a marrow fork or spoon should be put down to each person.