169 VEGETABLES AND SALADS of the turnips and to toughen their fibre. Cook very gently just below boiling-point until the pieces feel tender and look transparent. Then drain them in a colander. Make £ pt. good white sauce (see Recipe 671), adding if possible a little cream. Season it nicely and add the turnips. Stir them gently for a few minutes over the fire, add the parsley and serve at once in a hot dish. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 595. Turnip Puree (Puree de Navets) 1 lb. white turnips. | lb. cooked potatoes. Salt, pepper. 1 to 2 oz. butter. A little milk. A pinch of sugar. Wash and peel the turnips before weighing. Cut them in thin slices, put them into a greased saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover and cook slowly until tender. Then drain well and rub the turnips through a wire sieve. Return this puree to the saucepan with an equal quantity of sieved potatoes, which will help to bind the puree together. Add also a good piece of butter and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Stir over the fire a few minutes to dry the pureo and add a little milk at the last. This puree may be served either as a vegetable by itself, or as a garnish for another dish. 596. Glazed Turnips Young turnips. I Brown stock. Sugar. Butter. I Salt, pepper. Wash and peel the turnips and trim them to an equal size. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, boil for 10 minutes and drain. Choose a saucepan large enough to hold the turnips in a single layer and melt in it enough butter to cover the bottom. Put in the turnips, sprinkle them with sugar, and season with pepper and salt. Place the saucepan over the fire and stir the con- tents frequently until brown. Then pour in enough good brown stock to reach half-way up the turnips and cook them slowly until tender, basting fre- quently. When ready the stock should be reduced to a glaze. Use as a garnish. 597. Turnip Tops Turnip tops. Seasoning. Butter or dripping. Choose young fresh turnip tops and wash them well in cold water. Trim away any hard pieces of stalk and remove all faded and discoloured leaves. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, throw the turnip tops into this and boil them quickly with the lid otf the pan until they are tender, removing any scum as it rises. Then drain the greens, pressing out every drop of water, and chop them finely. Melt a small quan- tity of dripping or butter in the saucepan, return the greens to it and season them to taste with pepper and salt and, if liked, a pinch of nutmeg. Stir until thoroughly hot, then pile up on a hot dish and mark up the sides neatly with the back of a fork. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. 598. Turnip Tops with Poached Eggs 2 lbs. turnip tops. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Vegetable or meat stock. 1 gill white or onion sauce. 2 or 3 poached eggs. Wash and prepare the turnip tops as in last recipe, but drain them after only 10 minutes’ boiling. Press out all the water and chop or shred them finely. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the onion finely chopped and cook it for a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Add the greens with enough stock to cover them and allow them to stew until quite tender and the stock is all absorbed. Then add the sauce and stir until thoroughly hot, seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Serve the prepared turnip tops in a hot dish and garnish with poached eggs. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 599. Cassolettes of Vegetable (Cassolettes de Legumes) Make the same mixture as for Vegetable Croquettes, and use potato cases (Recipe 544) instead of pastry cases. 600. Vegetable Croquettes Beaten eggs. Bread-crumbs or vermi- celli. Cooked vegetables. Some good sauce. Seasoning. Scraps of pastry. Very tasty croquettes can be made with the remains of nicely cooked vegetables, such as celery, salsifys, mushrooms, cauliflower, green peas, French beans, asparagus points, &c., or a mixture of two or three kinds together. Cut the vegetables to be used into small pieces, bind them together with a little good sauce and season to taste. A little chopped parsley, finely powdered herbs, chopped pickles, grated cheese, &c., may be added according to the vegetable used. The mixture must not be too moist and should be quite cold before it is used. Then take some scraps of light pastry, roll them out as thinly as possible, and cut out rounds about 3 or 4 inches in diameter. Wet round the edges and put a little of the vegetable mixture in the centre. Double the pastry over so as to form a crescent shape and press the edges well together. Brush the croquettes over with beaten egg, toss them in fine bread-crumbs or crushed vermicelli and let them dry a short time. Then fry in hot fat to a golden brown colour, drain well and serve either as a garnish or as a dish by themselves. Note.—Any good vegetable puree with small pieces of vegetable added to it may also be used for these croquettes. 601. Vegetable Curry (Legumes en Kari) Cooked vegetables. I Boiled rice. Curry sauce. | Any nicely cooked vegetable may be used for a curry, such as turnip, carrot, cauliflower, French beans, peas, flageolets, potatoes, &c., or a mixture of vegetables if preferred. The vegetables, which should be well cooked, but not too soft and pulpy, should be cut in small neat pieces. Then prepare .some good curry sauce (see Recipe 685), put the