POULTRY, RABBITS AND GAME Poultry and game form an important part of our menu. It ia highly essential, therefore, that the art of cooking them to perfection should be thoroughly mastered. This chapter deals with every branch of the subject. A special feature is to be found in the complete instructions given in regard to the drawing, trussing, and general preparation of birds for the table. PART I POULTRY ON CHOOSING POULTRY All poultry when young should have smooth and pliable legs, with the scales overlapping very slightly. The spur on the leg of the male bird must be short and not prominent, and the feet should be soft and rather moist. If the spur is large and the legs hard and dry, the bird is no longer young. The flesh should be smooth and without long hairs. When choosing a bird that has not been plucked, one should see that the plumage is smooth and downy with soft young feathers under the wing and on the breast. If freshly killed, the eyes will be clear and not sunken ; there will be no discoloration of the flesh and the vent will be hard and close. Fowls.—The comb should be smooth and of a bright red colour. For roasting choose a fowl with black or yellow legs, as they are supposed to be more juicy and to possess a better flavour. For boiling, choose one with white legs, as the flesh will likely be whiter. A fowl for roasting, frying, or grilling should be young and tender, but for boiling, braising, or stewing an older one may be taken, as old birds are generally cheaper, and long slow cook- ing makes them tender. A bird is considered a chicken until it is nine months old, then a pullet until a year old or a little over. A capon (male) and a poularde (female) are birds which undergo special treatment when they are young to prevent them generating. In con- sequence they grow to a large size and are much finer and better in flavour than the ordinary fowl. Ducks.—Young birds have yellow feet and bills, as they become older these become darker and redder. The wild duck is an exception, as it has small reddish feet even when young. The under bill should be soft and pliable and easily broken when bent. The legs should be smooth, and the webbing of the feet soft and easily torn. The breast should be plump, but not over-fattened. The flavour of the duck depends very much upon how it has been fed. Sometimes they are fed on celery for a short time before killing, as this is sup- posed to give a very delicious flavour to the flesh. Geese.—The legs should be yellow and pliable, and the webbing of the feet easily torn. The bill should also be yellow and pliable and with few bristles, and the under bill easily broken when bent. The breast should be plump, but without too much fat, and the skin smooth. A goose should always be eaten young. When over a year old, it is not good for table use. Turkeys.—A good turkey will be recognised by the whiteness of its skin and flesh and its smooth black legs. The wattles should be a bright red, the breast broad and plump, with the end of the bone tender. Beware of those with long hairs and flesh of a violet hue. A moderate-sized bird should be chosen. A hen is preferable for boiling on account of the whiteness of the flesh, but the cock is usually chosen for roasting. If freshly killed, a turkey should be kept for at least three or four days before cooking, or it will neither be white nor tender. It should be hung- up to bleed. Norfolk turkeys are considered particularly fine. Pigeons.—A dark-coloured one is thought to have the highest flavour, and a light-coloured one the most delicate. The legs should be of a pinkish colour; when they are large and deeply coloured the bird is old. The breast should be fat and plump. The tame pigeon is smaller than the wild species and is better for cooking. Tame pigeons should be cooked at once, as they soon lose their flavour, but wood pigeons may be hung for a few days. A squab is a young pigeon. TO KILL A FOWL Dislocation of the neck, if properly done, is un- doubtedly the most humane method of killing a