COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 648 more, so that the corners have been three times folded to the centre on the one side. Now turn the serviette carefully over, holding the points in position, and fold the four points once to the centre on the other side. Then take a cup or tumbler, and placing it in the centre so as to keep the last four points firmly down, pull up the points carefully from underneath, Fig. 3, and one at a time until twelve points have been curled round to this side. The last four should be pulled up rather tightly, and these will keep the others in position. The serviette should now have the appearance of a water lily as in Fig. 4. This design is more suitable for holding hot scones and rolls than for putting round the table, as the style of folding crushes it too much. THE COCKSCOMB.—Take a square serviette, fold it in four in order to make a smaller square, and lay it on the table with the four loose points towards you, Fig, 1. Fold points B upwards to point A by dotted line, when the serviette should be in the form of a triangle with four single points and one double one at the top, Fig. 2. Now take the points C and D and fold them over and downwards by dotted lines, making the serviette look like Fig. 3. Turn the little ends E and F underneath, and approach them to each other slightly in order to give the serviette an arched appearance on the table. Hold them in position with the left hand while, with the thumb and finger of the right hand, you pull up the four single points at G to make them look like finished design, Fig. 4. THE HAMBURG.—Commence this in the same way as the water lily by folding the four points to the centre. Fig. 1. Then double by dotted line A A the four points to the inside. Now place the serviette on the table so that the double fold is furthest from you, Fig. 2. Take hold of the point A with the thumb and finger, slipping the thumb underneath the fold, and draw it down until it reaches C, giving the form of Fig. 3. Now draw down the point B in the same way, thus making a triangle. Fig. 4. Fold back one fold from each side by the dotted line, making them meet in the centre as in Fig. 5. Turn right over, and repeat the same on the other side. Then fold back the little points by the dotted line, so as to make feet or supports for the serviette, and stand it up as in Fig. 6.