661 THE ART OF CARVING GAME AND POULTRY Fowl (Roast or Boiled).—The fowl should be placed on the dish with the legs to the left-hand side. Insert the fork deeply across the breast bone, so that it takes a firm hold. First remove the wing on the side nearest you by cutting through the skin and shaving off a thin slice of the breast towards the wing joint. Then with the point of the knife sever the joint from the carcase. Next remove the leg on the same side, by making a downward cut between the thigh and the body. Bend the leg over, and sever the joint with the oint of the knife. Now cut the meat from tho reast in thin slices, and the whole length of the bird. The fork should never be moved from its original position, and the necessary carving should be finished before beginning to serve. If the family is small, and the whole fowl is not required, the second side may be left, and if the bare pieoe of carcase is cut away, and the half fowl served bone downwards on a dish with a nice garnish of parsley or salad, it will be quite presentable again. If, however, the whole fowl is required, remove the wish bone from the neck in front of the breast bone, by inserting the point of the knife at that end, and cutting down by dotted lines. Then turn the bird round, and carve the second side in exactly the same way as the first. Finally turn the carcase over, and remove the oyster, a small dark portion which lies near the centre of the side bones. The wing and the breast are considered the finest parts. Turkey.—This is carved in very much the same way as a fowl, only if it is large, and the whole is not required, it is usual to commence with the breast, and to cut slices from that before removing the legs and wings. When the legs are cut off, they should be divided in two at the joint, and then cut in slices, as they make too large portions by themselves. If the bird is stuffed, a small quantity of the forcemeat should be served with each portion. Goose.—Serve the bird with the neck at the left- hand side of the dish. As the breast is the best part, it is usual to carve this first, and not to use the legs and wings the first day unless they are required. Insert the fork in the centre over the ridge of the breast bone, and cut the breast in thin parallel slices, commencing at the wing and con- tinuing until the breast bone is reached. Then slip the knife under and detach them from the bone. Remove the legs and wings in the same way as from a fowl. If there is sage and onion farce, inquire of each one if a small helping is agreeable, or hand it round separately. Roast Duck.—Carve in the same way as roast goose. Pigeon.—The usual plan to adopt is to cut the bird right through the middle into two equal parts. If these are too large, they may be cut through again into quarters. Partridge and Grouse.—These may either be cut n halves or quarters the same way as a pigeon, or cut in three portions in the following manner: Cut off the leg and the wing with a small portion of the breast adhering to make two portions, and then the upper part of the breast, separated from the carcase for a third. Small birds, such as snipe, quail, ortolan, &c., may either be served whole, or else cut in two if very small portions are desired. FISH A silver or plated fish knife and fork, or fish carvers, ought to be used for serving fish. A steel knife should never be used, as it would spoil the delicate flavour of the fish. Care should be taken to break the flakes no more than is necessary, and to serve as little bone as possible. Cod or Salmon.—The fish should be placed on the dish with the thick part of the back towards the further side. Remove the skin from one side, and make an incision the whole length of the fish, as indicated by dotted lines. Then carve in fairly thick slices right through to the centre bone. Slip the knife underneath and detach them. When the top part is finished, remove the bone, and carve the lower portion in the same manner.