COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 538 to a hot plate, and pour round it any juice that may have run from it. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. 2551. Steamed Mutton and Rice 1 mutton chop. 1 gill of cold water. 1 tea-sp. whole rice. 1 small stick of celery. A pinch of salt. Wipe the chop with a damp cloth, and trim off nearly all the fat. Put it into a jar or basin, with the salt, water, and rice well washed. Wash and brush the celery, removing any brown parts from it; cut it into fine shreds, and put it in along with the chop, &c. Cover all with a lid or strong piece of greased white paper. Place the jar or basin in a saucepan with enough boiling water to come half- way up the sides; put the lid on the pan, and steam slowly until tender. If the water boils down, more must be added. When ready, lift the chop on to a hot plate, and pour the rice, &c., round it. Note.—The celery may be omitted in this recipe, and the jar containing the chop may be placed in a moderate oven instead of in a saucepan of boiling water. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Probable cost, 6d. 2552. Stewed Pigeon 1 pigeon. A little butter. J pt. light stock. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. flour. Prepare and clean the pigeon, and carefully truss it as for roasting (Recipe 1168). Melt a small piece of butter or a little bacon fat in a stewpan, put the pigeon into it and keep turning it over and over until nicely browned on all sides. Then pour away any fat that may be left, and add the stock. Season to taste, and put the lid on the pan. Stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until the bird is tender, turning it once or twice during the cook- ing and removing any scum that may rise. The time will depend on the kind of pigeon. When ready, lift it on to a hot dish, pour some of the gravy round, and garnish with parsley or a little watercress. Time to stew, 1 to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 2553. Quails with Spinach Roast two little quails as directed on p. 303, and have ready prepared some nicely cooked spinach and two small rounds of well-made toast. Pile the Quails on Toast spinach neatly in the centre of a hot dish, place the rounds of toast at the sides and then the quails on the top with the feet crossed over the spinach in the centre. Serve very hot. 2554. Rabbit Stewed in Milk i a young rabbit. 1 gill new milk. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. flour. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. Proceed in exactly the same way as for chicken stewed in milk (Recipe 2542), except that the joints of rabbit, after being well washed, must be blanched —that is, put on in a saucepan with cold water to cover them, brought to the boil, and the water poured away. Then rinse them in fresh cold water, and they are ready for putting into the jar with the milk, &c. This makes the meat a much whiter colour, and takes away some of the strong flavour. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, Gd. to 8d. 2555. Stewed Sweetbread 1 calf’s sweetbread. Cold water. 1 tea-cupful light stock, ltea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. cornflour. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. cream or 1 yolk of egg. Choose a very fresh heart sweetbread, throw it into cold water, and let it soak for an hour. Then put it into a saucepan with fresh cold water, bring to the boil, and boil for 3 minutes. Throw the sweetbread again into cold water, pull away from it all skin and fat, and break it in small pieces. This preliminary preparation makes the sweet- bread white. When ready, put the prepared pieces into a small stewpan or earthenware casserole, pour in the stock and add any seasoning desired. Simmer very slowly until tender, removing any scum that may rise. Then lift out the pieces of sweetbread and keep them warm. Break the corn- flour with a little cold water, and add it to the stock in the pan. Stir until boiling and cook for a few minutes. Add the cream and parsley, cook 2 minutes longer, and then pour this sauce over the sweetbread. If a yolk of egg is used instead of cream, the sauce must not boil after it is added. The dish may be garnished with a few sippets of toast. Note.—Lambs’ sweetbreads may be cooked in the same way; they will take a shorter time to cook. Time to cook, 1 to l£ hours. Cost uncertain. 2556. Stewed Tripe £ lb. prepared tripe. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-cupful tripe liquor. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. Prepare the tripe as directed on p. 223, remove it from the liquid in which it has cooked, and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a small stewpan, when melted add the flour and mix until smooth. Add the liquor from the tripe (the liquid in which it was cooked) and the milk, and stir until boiling. Put in the pieces of tripe, and add salt and a little white pepper to taste. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to simmer at least a quarter of an hour. Serve very hot, and garnish with some neat pieces of toast. Note.—A little cream added to the above will be found an improvement, and, if preferred, 2 table-spoonfuls fresh tomato puree may be used instead of the milk.