COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 184 Notes.—The sauce will be very much improved by having an extra piece of butter stirred in at the last, when the saucepan has been removed from the fire. This will give it a smooth and creamy taste not to be obtained in any other way. Cornflour is sometimes used instead of the ordinary flour. More or less milk may be added according to the thickness of the sauce required. A plainer sauce can be made by using half milk and half water. 672. A Richer White Sauce (Sauce Bechamel) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 3 gills seasoned milk. 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Cook for a minute or two over the fire, but do not brown, then draw the saucepan to one side, and add the seasoned milk (see above) all at once. Return to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Add the cream, pepper, and salt, and cook for a minute or two longer. Remove the saucepan from the fire before adding the lemon juice, and strain or tammy before using. Note.—If considered too rich the cream may be omitted. sieve. Add this paste to the sauce just before serving and mix it well in. 676. Black Butter (Beurre Noir) 2 oz. fresh butter. i 1 dessert-sp. chopped 11 table-sp. vinegar. parsley. I Pepper and salt. Cut the butter into small pieces, put it into a very clean saucepan, and heat it over the fire until a golden brown, but on no account let it blacken. Then let it cool. This is important, because if the butter were added too hot to the vinegar it would be liable to boil over and be wasted. Put the vinegar into another saucepan and reduce it to half the quan- tity, strain the brown butter into it, add parsley and seasoning, and reheat without boiling. Sometimes a few chopped capers are added to this butter, especially when it is served with skate. If salt butter is used it must first be clarified. 677. Brain Sauce Make in the same way as Parsley Sauce (Re- cipe 700), adding the cooked brains of a sheep or calf, finely chopped, to it. It is served with sheep or calf’s head. 673. White Sauce made with Stock (Sauce Veloutd) 1 oz. butter, § oz. flour. 2 pt. chicken or veal stock. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and cook these two well together without letting them brown. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock. Return again to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Boil slowly at least 10 minutes, skim if necessary, add a squeeze of lemon juice, season to taste, and strain or tammy before using. Note.—This sauce forms the foundation of a number of the best white sauces, which take their distinctive names from the different ingredients added. It can be used by itself, but in that case will be improved by the addition of a little cream, or the yolk of an egg mixed with a small quantity of milk. 674. White Sauce for Fish Make as directed in last recipe, using fish stock, or fish stock and milk instead of the plain milk. 675. Anchovy Sauce (Sauce d’Anehois) l pt. white sauce. 1 dessert-sp. anchovy essence. Make the sauce as directed in Recipe 673, using fish stock, or equal quantities of fish stock and milk for the liquid. Season to taste and add the anchovy essence. Note.—Preserved anchovies may be used instead of the anchovy essence. Two or three will be re- quired for the above quantity of sauce. Lift them out of the oil in which they are preserved, dip them for a minute into warm water, and then scrape off the silver skin. Put them in a mortar with a small piece of butter, and rub through a wire or hair 673. Bread Sauce (Sauce au Pain) | pt. milk. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. \ small onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 oz. butter or 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water and put into it the milk and the piece of onion stuck with cloves. Set this by the side of the fire and simmer very gently until the milk is well flavoured. Then remove the onion and cloves and add the bread-crumbs, which should be made fine by being rubbed through a wire sieve. Stir over the fire and cook slowly until the bread-crumbs swell and thicken the sauce. Add the butter or cream, and season to taste with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. This sauce is served dc rigueur, with roast fowl and roast game. 679. Caper Sauce, White (Sauce aux CSpres) |- oz. butter. f oz. flour. | pt. meat liquor or fish stock. 1 table-sp. capers. 1 table-sp. vinegar. White pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Cook a minute or two, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the liquid. Return to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Add the capers, cut in halves or roughly chopped, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Boil two or three minutes longer and add the vinegar last, using the caper vinegar if it can be spared. Notes.—If this sauce is being served with boiled mutton or other boiled meat, make it with the water in which the meat has been cooked, but if it is to be served with fish, make it with fish stock, or the water in which fish has been boiled. The sauce may be made richer by adding 1 or 2 table-