177 VEGETABLES AND SALADS a salad dish with some nice crisp leaves of lettuce, arrange the salad on the top, sprinkle with a little coralline pepper and garnish with the gherkins either chopped or cut in shreds. A few chopped nuts may be mixed with this salad if liked. Serve before the apple has time to discolour. This makes a very good accompaniment to roast pork or goose. 637, Banana Salad (Salade de Bananes) 3 or 4 bananas. j Salad dressing. Seasoning. Lettuce. I ltable-sp. chopped nuts. Choose firm ripe bananas and slit them open from end to end, keeping the skin in one piece. Take out the fruit and cut it in thin slices with a silver knife. Mix if with some salad dressing (see Recipe 749) and season with pepper, salt, and a few chopped or ground nuts. Fill the banana skins with this mixture, leaving them half open, then arrange some nice crisp lettuce leaves on a salad dish, place the filled bananas on the top and garnish with a little cress or, if obtainable, a few nasturtium flowers. 638. Beef Salad (Salad de Boeuf) 6 oz. cold beef. 2 or 3 cooked potatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 2 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Salad dressing. No. 748. Mustard and cress. The meat used must be tender and juicy. Re- move from it all skin and sinew and cut it into thin shreds, allowing just a small proportion of fat. Cut the potatoes also in shreds or small cubes and mix them with the meat. Season with pepper, salt, the chopped parsley and pickles. Peel the tomatoes and cut them in thin slices, arrange them neatly at the bottom of the salad dish, season with pepper and salt and pile the meat mixture on the top. Decorate with a little mustard and cress and pour the dressing slowly over all. Allow the salad to stand in a cool place for a short time before serving. Note.—This salad may be varied very much according to individual taste and the materials at command. Any nice salad vegetable may be mixed with the meat, beetroot or cucumber may be used instead of the tomato and mayonnaise sauce instead of the above dressing. This makes a good Sunday supper dish. 639. Beetroot Salad (Salade de Betterave) Cooked beetroot. I Salad dressing. No. 748. Lettuce. | Small cress. Peel the beetroot and cut it in thin slices or in dice. Arrange it in a salad dish with a few crisp pieces of lettuce and pour the dressing over. Decorate with little bunches of small cress. If the flavour of onion is liked, 1 or 2 chopped chives or a chopped shallot may be added, or the salad dish may be rubbed over with a clove of garlic. A few slices or small sections of hard-boiled egg may also be added if wished. Note.—A salad made of equal quantities of beet- root and cooked potatoes is also very good. It makes a good winter salad. 640. Beetroot and Orange Salad 1 beetroot (cooked). 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 2 sweet oranges. Onion flavouring. 2 table-sps. salad oil. Choose a medium-sized beetroot, peel it and cut it in thin slices. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, cut them in thin slices and take out the pips. Now take a salad dish and rub it over with a cut piece of onion, or if liked, a clove or garlic, and arrange in it very neatly the prepared beetroot and orange. Pour over the oil and lemon juice and let the salad stand a short time before serving. This salad is uncommon and very good. 641, Carrot Salad (Salade de Carottes) Cooked carrots. | Salad dressing. No. 749. Watercress. | Chopped parsley. Choose nice red carrots, which have been well cooked without being pulpy. Cut them in fine shreds or small cubes, season them with pepper and salt and set aside until very cold. Then mix them lightly with a little salad dressing. Carefully pick and wash some fresh watercress, shake it very dry and arrange it in a circle on a salad dish. Put the carrots in the centre, baste with a little more of the dressing and decorate with chopped parsley and, if liked, a little hard-boiled and chopped white of egg. Note.—When young carrots are in season a very good salad can be made by mixing them with some fresh green peas, asparagus points, or French beans finely shred. In fact, any cooked vegetable which will make a pretty contrast in colour may be used along with the carrots. Lettuce may be used instead of the watercress. 642. Cauliflower Salad (Salade de Choufleur) 1 cooked cauliflower. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Salad dressing, No. 748. Lettuce or cress. 1 hard-boiled egg. When cauliflower is used for a salad it should be pretty and white. It is better to have it cooked either by steaming, or by boiling it in equal quan- tities of milk and water. It must on no account be overcooked or it will become an ugly pinkish'colour. Drain it well and allow it to become quite cold. Then break it apart in small flowerettes, removing the green leaves and most of the stalk. Put the cauliflower into a basin, pour a little dressing over it, season with pepper and salt and mix all very lightly. Arrange a little lettuce or other green salad in a salad dish and pile the cauliflower on the top. Decorate with small sections of hard- boiled egg and little bunches of small cress. Pour over all a little more of the dressing and sprinkle the parsley on the top. 643. Celery Salad (Salade de Celeri) 1 head of celery. Parsley or small cress. Salad dressing. No. 750. Remove the outside stalks from the celery, reserving these for flavouring stocks and soups, and use the white part only for making the salad. The smaller heads of celery are usually the most M