VEGETABLES Kale or Curly Greens This is a variety of the cabbage tribe, but instead of being round and compact in form, its leaves are long and open. There are different varieties of kale, but most of them have curly heads. It is easily cultivated and is much esteemed as a whole- some winter vegetable. It forms an important ingredient in Scotch kale or broth, and in some of the country districts of Scotland almost every cottager will have some of this vegetable growing in his little garden or back yard. Like all green vegetables, it must be used very fresh. It requires careful washing and all the harder pieces of stalk should be removed, it may then be cooked accord- ing to directions given for turnip tops (Recipe 597). Kohl-rabi (Chou-rave) This vegetable belongs to the cabbage tribe, and is the swollen stem of the plant. It is often called the turnip-rooted cabbage, from its similarity in appearance to the turnip. It is not well known in this country, but when it can be procured it makes a wholesome and nutritious vegetable. It Kohl-rabi AND SALADS 149 good served as a vegetable, and it is to be regretted that it does not appear oftener on our table. Leeks 504. Leeks, To Stew (Poireaux au Jus) 6 leeks. | Some light stock. A small piece of butter. | Seasoning. Trim off the roots, the green ends, and the outer covering of the leeks. Split them down the middle, wash thoroughly and let them lie in cold water with a little vinegar for half an hour. Then drain, cut in convenient sized pieces, and wash again in fresh cold water. Put the leeks into a lined or earthenware saucepan with enough stock to cover them, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until they are quite tender. Allow the stock to reduce until there is just sufficient to serve as gravy. Season with salt and pepper, and add a small piece of butter just before serving. Time to stew, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. is also very delicate in flavour and has a pleasant taste. Kohl-rabi may be cooked according to any of the directions given for cooking turnips. The green leaves, too, may be cooked in the same way as other greens, and are often used as a garnish to the root itself. When young it can also be eaten raw, and is very good in salad. Leeks (Poireaux) The leek belongs to the same tribe of vegetables as the onion, but the flavour is very much milder. The bulb instead of being round is very much elongated, and the leaves as well as the bulb are eaten. It is very often banked or earthed up in order to blanch the leaves, and cultivation has made a very thick and handsome plant. The leek is said to be one of the healthiest of vegetables and to be particularly beneficial in cases of cold and chest trouble ; it has also a salutary effect on the liver. It is excellent in soup, the old-fashioned ** cockie-leekie ” owing part of its name to the number of leeks it contains. It is also very 505. Leeks & la Creme (Poireaux h la Creme) 5 or 6 leeks. 1 dessert-sp. flour, i pt. milk. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Wash the leeks well in cold water, cutting off. the roots, most of the green part, and the outside skin. Then split them open lengthwise and cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches in length. Now wash the leeks thoroughly in plenty of cold water, and when quite free from all grit, drain in a colander. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of fast boiling water, slightly salted, throw the leeks into this, boil them about 10 minutes and drain again. Then put them into a stewpan with the milk, season with white pepper and salt, and cook slowly by the side of the fixe until tender. When ready, drain oS the milk and arrange the leeks neatly in a hot vegetable dish. Melt the butter in the stewpan, mix in the flour and then pour in the milk from the leeks. Stir until boiling, and cook 2 or 3 minutes, .adding more seasoning if necessary. Add the cream at the last, and pour this sauce over the leeks. Sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over and serve very hot.