484 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD bay-leaf, and add the rice flour mixed smoothly with a gill of cold milk. Stir over the fire until boiling, add the sugar, and cook for a few minutes. Then strain into a basin and stir occasionally until Bice Cream Ice with Compote of Oranges Cold. Partly freeze the mixture in the usual way, add the cream, whipped, and the liqueur, and freeze again until stiff. This ice is best moulded and served with a good sauce or compote of fruit. Small pieces of fruit may be added to the mixture if wished. 2214. Strawberry Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme de Fraises) 1 lb. fresh strawberries. £ lb. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. J- pt. double cream. A few drops of car- mine. Choose sound ripe strawberries, pick them care- fully, and cut them in pieces with a silver knife or fork. Sprinkle them with the sugar and lemon juice and allow them to stand for £ hour or so. Then rub them through a hair sieve, using a wooden or silver spoon. The puree should measure 4 pint; if more or less, regulate the quantity of cream accordingly. Whip the cream until thick, and stir it lightly into the strawberry puree, add a few drops of carmine to make the cream a pretty strawberry colour, and then freeze in the usual way. Note.—A plainer ice may be made by using cus- tard, or partly custard, instead of so much cream. Strawberry jam may be used instead of the fresh fruit, when sugar will not be required. 2215. Tangerine Ice Cream 6 tangerine oranges. 1 pt. cream. \ lb. castor sugar Grate the rind very lightly off 3 of the oranges, and then rub it into the sugar. Put this flavoured sugar into a double boiler with half the cream, and scald them until the sugar is quite dissolved. Then remove from the fire, and stand until cold. Strain in the juice of the 6 oranges, and add the other half of the cream, whipped. Pour all into the freezing pot, and freeze in the usual way. Note.—The ordinary oranges may be used in- stead of the tangerines, half the number being allowed. 2216. Tea Ice Cream (CrSme au The Glace) Make in the same way as Vanilla Ice Cream, making the custard with equal parts of strong good tea and milk. A small glass of liqueur brandy may be added. 2217. Vanilla Cream Ice (Glace a la Cr&me de Vanille) \ pt. double cream. I Sugar. S pt. custard. ] Vanilla pod or essence. Make a rich custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, flavour it with vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Strain this and allow it to cool. Add the cream lightly whipped, mix both together, and freeze until a proper consistency. Note.—A cheaper mixture may be made by using a cornflour custard and adding less cream. 2218. Coupe aux Marrons Vanilla ice cream. I Liqueur. Marrons glaces. | Whipped cream. Break up one or two marrons glaces in small , pieces and soak them in a small quantity of liqueur. Put a dessert-spoonful of this at the bottom of some ■ glass cups or goblets, and fill up with vanilla ice cream. Put a whole marron glace on the top, and garnish round with a little whipped and flavoured cream put through a forcing bag. Serve at once. 2219. Walnut Ice Cream Make in the same way as Vanilla Ice Cream (see above), adding 3 oz. roasted and ground walnuts to the custard. 2220. Meringues au Chocolat Glacges Take some well hollowed out meringue cases, and fill the half shells with chocolate ice cream. Pile the ice rather high in each half, but do not put the two shells together. Have ready in a forcing bag with a small rose pipe at the end of it, some icy cold whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla and coloured a very pale pink. Force this out in a pretty pattern on the top of each meringue, and arrange them neatly on a dish. Decorate with fern leaves or red Vir- ginia creeper leaves, and serve at once. Note.—These may be varied indefinitely by chang- ing the ice cream mixture and the colouring and flavouring of the whipped cream, &o. 2221. Iced Tartlets Make some little fruit tartlets with good thin short crust as directed on p. 362, and let them be very cold. At the moment of serving pile some vanilla, strawberry, or other ice cream in each, decorate lightly with crystallised flower petals or any other decoration preferred, and serve at once. [Iimin 11 HI r- -