250 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD mushrooms cut in pieces, a little tomato purde, or, if mutton is being used, a few chopped pickles. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1011. Cold Meat Mince J lb. cooked meat. | oz. butter. | oz. flour. 1 cupful good stock. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Seasoning. A border of potatoes. Trim the meat carefully, removing all skin, gristle, and discoloured parts. Chop it with a knife or put it through the mincer. Brown the butter in a small stewpan, put in the flour and brown that also. Then pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste, add the meat, and allow it to heat slowly by the side of the fire for 15 minutes. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a dish and brown it in the oven (see Recipe 543). When ready, dish the mince neatly in the centre and serve hot. Notes.—A little finely chopped onion may be added to the mince if liked. Any good brown sauce may be used for moistening the meat, or if white meat, such as veal, rabbit, or chicken, is being used, a white sauce is to be preferred, and a little chopped ham would then be an improvement. A border of rice, macaroni, or spaghetti may be used instead of the potato, and poached eggs are sometimes served on the top of the mince. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 1012. Shepherd’s Pie J lb. cooked meat. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. i pt. stock. 1 onion. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Seasoning. Mashed potatoes. A little milk or beaten egg- Prepare the meat and make a brown sauce as directed for hash (Recipe 1010). Lay the pieces of meat at the bottom of a greased pie dish and pour the sauce over. Then prepare some mashed potatoes (see Recipe 537) and pile them on the top. Smooth over with a knife, and mark neatly with the back of a fork, or the point of a knife. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg and bake in a good oven for at least \ an hour. Serve very hot. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1013. Cottage Pie Prepare some cold meat mince as directed above, and put it into a greased pie dish. Pile mashed potato on the top, smooth over neatly with a knife, and then mark with the back of a fork or the point of a knife. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until brown and hot through. 1014. Cold Meat in Batter i lb. cooked meat. Batter as in Recipe 334 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. J tea - sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Trim the meat, mince it very finely, and season it with the powdered herbs, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Grease a Yorkshire pudding tin rather thickly and spread this meat mixture at the bottom. Make the batter carefully, and allow it to stand for \ hour at least. Then strain it over the meat, mix lightly and bake in a good oven, until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, cut in convenient-sized pieces and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Time to bake, about \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1015. Cold Meat Cannelon | lb. cooked meat. | lb. ham or tongue. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 or 2 table-sp. sauce or gravy. A little flour. Brown or tomato sauce. Trim the cold meat and ham or tongue, cut them in pieces and put them through a mincing machine. Put the minced meat into a basin, add to it the bread-crumbs, parsley, and pickles. Season to taste and mix well together. Then bind with a beaten egg and a little stock or gravy, if necessary. Form into a roll, using a little flour, and wrap in Cold Meat Cannelon a piece of greased paper. Bake in a good oven. When ready, remove the paper and serve the roll on a hot dish with tomato, brown, or any other suitable sauce poured over it. Boiled rice or stewed macaroni may be used as a garnish. Time to bake, | to £ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1016. Casserole of Meat 1J lbs. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Seasoning. 1 egg. Cold meat mince. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. To Make the Casserole.—Sieve the potatoes and put them into a saucepan in which the butter or dripping has been melted. Season with pepper and salt, add most of the egg well beaten, and mix together. Now take a plain cake tin (1| pint size), grease it carefully, and coat the inside with fine browned bread-crumbs. Then put in the potato mixture and work it carefully up the sides of the tin, leaving a hollow in the centre. The potato lining must be at least J inch thick and must be well pressed against the tin. When finished, brush the potato over with the remains of the egg and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. To Prepare the Mince.—Make some nice savoury mince with the remains of cooked meat, as directed in Recipe 1011, being careful not to have it too liquid.. To Serve.—Turn the casserole of potatoes out of the tin and place it, hollow side uppermost, on