213 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 831. Beef & la Mode, 1 (Boeuf a la Mode) 3 to 4 lbs. fillet, top-side, or rump of beef. | tea-sp. each ground cloves, ginger, cinna- mon, allspice, and pepper. Juice of | lemon. Salt. Larding bacon. 1 oz. dripping. 11 pts. stock on water. 2 onions. 1 large carrot. A bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 glass claret. Beef & la mode is very similar to braised beef, only it 13 generally larded and sometimes spiced as well. Wipe and dry the meat, trim it carefully and lay it on a deep dish. Mix the ground spices together and rub them into the meat. Sprinkle over the strained juice of £ a lemon or 2 table- spoonfuls vinegar and stand overnight. Next day lard the best side of the meat (see p. 205) and tie it up neatly with a piece of tape. Melt the drip- ping in a large stewpan, put in the meat and brown it on all sides. This will take about 20 minutes. When ready, lift it out, add the carrot and onions cut in slices, and brown them also. Add the stock and herbs, and when hot put back the meat. Cover with greased paper and the saucepan lid, and cook slowly in the oven or on the top of the stove until the meat is tender, basting now and again with the stock. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, placing the larded side uppermost, and keep it warm whilst preparing the sauce. Melt the butter in a small stewpan and allow it to brown, add the flour and brown that also, then strain in 1 pint of stock from the meat (the quantity must be made up with water if there is not sufficient) and stir until boiling. Add seasoning to taste and a glass of claret at the last. Strain some of the sauce round the meat and serve the remainder in a sauce boat. Garnish the meat with glazed carrots or onions (Recipes 453 and 524) or with any other cooked vegetable in season. Note.—This meat is also very good cold, and being spiced it will keep for several- days if kept in a cool place. It should be served with salad or with chopped aspic jelly. 832. Beef & la Mode, 2 (Boeuf & la Mode) 3 to 4 lbs. top-side of beef. Larding bacon. 2 oz. dripping. 1 glass Madeira. 1 glass white wine. Stock or water. 1 calf’s foot. 2 or 3 doz. small white onions. 2 or 3 carrots. A bunch of herbs. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. flour. Choose a nice fleshy piece of beef from the top- side or rump, lard it with thickish lardoons of fat bacon (see Larding, p. 205) and tie it into a neat shape with string. Melt the dripping in a large stewpan, and when smoking hot put in the meat and brown it on all sides. Then pour in the glass of Madeira and set it alight. When this has burned out, add the white wine, the calf’s foot, which has been blanched and cut in pieces, and enough stock or water to half cover the meat. Season with pepper and salt, and the bunch of herbs ; put a tight-fitting lid on the pan and bring the contents to simmering point over the fire. Meanwhile prepare the vegetables—peel the onions and cut the carrots into small neat pieces. Add these to the stew and cook all together until the meat is tender. The cooking should be done in the oven if possible, or if not convenient, on the top of the stove at simmering point only. If young vegetables are used, they should not be added until the meat has cooked for some time, especially if it is a large piece of meat. The time should be regulated so as to have both meat and vegetables ready at the same time. The meat may be turned once during the cooking, but other- wise the saucepan must be kept as tightly covered as possible. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the string that binds it together, and either cut it in slices or leave it whole. Re- move the bones from the calf’s foot and arrange the pieces at each side of the beef. Put the carrot and onions in a heap at each end. Mix the flour with a little stock or water, add it to the gravy in the saucepan, stir until boiling, and carefully remove all grease. Strain this gravy over and round the meat. 833. Beef “ en Casserole ** l.|- lbs. round of beef. 1 cupful small white onions. 1 cupful carrot. 1 cupful turnip. | cupful celery. 3 gills stock. A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. Wipe the meat and cut it in small square pieces. Heat an iron frying pan or stewpan and grease it with a piece of the fat. Then put in the meat and brown it quickly on all sides, turning it over and over with an iron spoon. Prepare the vege- table, cut the carrot and turnip in dice or shreds, shred the celery and leave the little onions whole. If small onions cannot be obtained use the ordinary ones cut in pieces, and if fresh Celery is not in season, use tea-spoonful celery seed. Put a layer of the prepared vegetables in a fireproof casserole, lay the browned meat on the top, and then the remainder of the vegetables. Season with pepper and salt and pour in about 3 gills of hot stock. Cover with greased paper, put on the lid, and cook in a good oven until the meat is quite tender. Remove the herbs and serve the stew in the dish in which it is cooked. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons Probable cost. Is. 8d. 834. Stewed Shin of Beef 2 lbs. shin of beef. Small quantity of carrot. turnip, and onion. A small bunch of herbs. 2 table-sps. stock or water. 2 table-sps. brown vine- gar. Salt. Pepper. This makes a very economical and tasty stew. The upper part of the shin should be chosen. Wipe it and cut it in small pieces away from the bone, removing the fat and skin. Put the meat and bone into a strong jar and season them well with pepper and salt. Add a large cupful of the vege- tables cut in small pieces and a small bunch of herbs. Pour the stock and vinegar over, cover the jar and cook in a moderate oven or steam, as is most convenient. When tender, serve neatly on a hot dish, removing the bone and bunch of herbs. Notes.—This stew may be cooked in a saucepan instead of the jar, but care must be taken to cook it very slowly, or the meat will be tough. Any