105 FISH tench are those which are caught in fresh running water. They require very careful cleaning, and this should he done as soon as possible after the fish is caught. Soaking in acidulated water for some time before cooking will sometimes improve the flavour of the fish. When large enough tench should be filleted before cooking, as the bones are very troublesome. They may be stewed, broiled, or fried, or boiled in court bouillon (see p. 79), and served with a piquante sauce. Trout (Truite) There are different kinds of trout. The larger sea trout and the lake trout are treated in the same way as salmon. The little brown trout or moor trout is the king of freshwater fish, and is found in rivers and mountain streams all over Europe. It is much prized for its delicate and very delicious flavour. It is very pretty in ap- pearance, and is easily distinguished by its round red spots. To be in perfection trout should be cooked as soon as possible after it is caught. Like salmon there is a close season for trout, when it is not obtainable. with oil and vinegar. Serve black butter, maitre d’hbtel butter, or cucumber sauce separately 290. Trout in Paper (Truites en Papillote) 4 or 5 small trout. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. I table-sp. chopped mushrooms. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Choose small trout from £ to £ lb. in weight, and clean them carefully without opening. Then pre- pare a stuffing with the other ingredients. Put the butter into a basin and beat it to a cream, add the other ingredients, binding all together with the yolk of an egg. Pill the trout with this stuffing, and wrap each one in a piece of greased white paper. Place them on a greased baking tin, and bake in a good oven, turning the fish once during the cooking. Serve the fish on a hot dish without removing the paper, and garnish with parsley. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 287. Trout, Baked (Truite Rotie au Four) 2 river trout. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. A few bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. capers. Thoroughly clean the fish and lay them head to tail on a greased fireproof dish. Sprinkle them with pepper, salt, lemon juice, and the capers roughly chopped. Put a light coating of bread- crumbs on the top, and lay on the butter in small ieces. Cover with greased paper, and ake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Serve hot, garnished with thin slices of lemon. 288. Trout, To Fry (Truite Frite) Trout A little flour. Clean the fish, split them in half and re- move the bone. Then dry the pieces in a cloth, and coat lightly with flour, mixed with pepper and salt. Egg and bread- crumb, and fry in hot fat (see p. 248) until a nice brown colour. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and gar- nish with fried parsley. Serve cucumber, mayonnaise, or any other suitable sauce separately. 289. Trout, To Grill (Truite Grille) Trout. I Salad oil or melted Lemon juice. | butter. Seasoning. Clean the trout and dry them well in a cloth. Split them open, remove the bone, and season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Then brush over with salad oil or melted butter, and broil in front of or over a clear fire from 5 to 10 minutes, according to the size of the fish (see p. 79). If the fish are very small it will be better to leave the bones in ; simply score the skin across diagon- ally on both sides, season, and dip them in oil. Serve the trout very hot, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon, or with watercress, lightly sprinkled PART IV SHELLFISH Crawfish (Langouste) The crawfish is like the lobster in appearance, but without the large claws. It is much coarser in quality and darker in colour. It is more used Crawfish lobster abroad than in this country. It may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking lobster. Crayfish (Ecrevisse) This freshwater shellfish is like the lobster in appearance, only very much smaller. Its flavour is very delicate; it is one of the most delicate of shellfish. Crayfish are not plentiful in this country, but large quantities are imported alive from both France and Germany. They are generally sold boiled, when they are a bright, pink colour. They are used principally as a garnish for other dishes, and also for making soup. A nut-cracker may be used to crack the claws.