559 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES beaten egg, and bake in a good oven 15 to 20 minutes. To Make a Large Brioche for Timbale.—Grease a souffle tin, and tie a strong band of greased white paper round the outside to give it more height, in the same way as for a souffle (see p. 425). Half fill the tin with brioche dough, and set it in a warm place to rise. When the dough fills the tin, put it in a good oven to bake. It will require from 30 to 40 minutes to bake. To make a Timbale, see Recipe 2080. 2663. Plain White Seones, 1 | lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. | tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Rub all the dry ingredients through a sieve into a basin. Add the butter, and rub together with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, and stir in enough fresh milk to make a light dough. Turn out on a floured board, and work very lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Roll out to \ inch in thickness with a floured rolling-pin, cut into shapes, place on a greased and floured baking tin, and bake in a good oven until firm to the touch and of a nice brown colour. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 2664. Barley Meal Scones | lb. barley meal. | lb. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. A good pinch of salt. 1 dessert-sp, powder. 1 egg. About | pt. milk. baking i lb. flour. 1 egg. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill sour cream. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of sak. first on one side and then on the other until they are cooked through. Note.—A little castor sugar may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d.' 2666. Currant Scones 1 lb. flour. oz. Paisley flour. 2 oz. butter. J lb.'currants. 2 oz. sugar. About | pt. milk. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a clean dry basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then make a w$l in the centre, and add the egg well beaten and enough milk to make a smooth soft dough. Turn it out on a floured board, and leave the basin as clean as possible. Work the dough lightly with the hands until free from cracks, then flour a rolling-pin, and roll it out about half an inch in thickness. Cut this out in shapes with a small round cutter, and place them on a hot girdle. When brown on one side, turn them over and brown them on the other. When ready they should feel dry at the edges. Note.—These scones may also be baked on a greased tin in the oven. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. ■ 2665. Cream Scones Sieve the flour and Paisley flour into a basin (the latter takes the place of baking powder). Rub in the butter lightly with the tips of the fingers, and add the currants well cleaned and the sugar. Make a well in the centre, and add the milk gradually until a soft smooth dough is formed. Turn out on a floured board, and divide in three pieces. Roll each piece into a round scone, cut in four and place on a floured tin. Brush the scones over lightly with milk, and bake them in a good oven. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Probable cost. Id. 2667. Crumpets | lb. Vienna flour. 1 egg. | tea-sp. salt. Milk. | oz. baking powder. 1 oz. butter. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the butter melted and the egg well beaten, then, gradu- ally, enough milk to make a thinnish batter. Grease some muffin rings, and lay them on a hot and greased girdle. Pour a little batter into each, and watch until air-bubbles begin to rise. Then remove the rings, turn the crumpets, and brown on the second side. Repeat this until all are finished. Toast the crumpets lightly, spread them with butter, and pile them one on the top of the other. Cut in four, and serve hot. Time to cook, 8 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. £ lb. flour. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. cream of tartar. 2668. Dropped Scones \ tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 egg. | breakfast-cupful milk. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, and pour in the egg and cream beaten together. Mix from the centre outwards, gathering in the flour gradually until all is formed into one lump. Turn out the dough on a floured board, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Roll out to about hah an inch in thickness, cut in rounds, and bake on a greased tin in the oven or on a greased girdle. If the latter, brown the scones Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg well beaten, and then the milk gradually, beating all well to- gether with the back of a wooden spoon. When the batter looks light and full of air bubbles pour it into a iug. Heat a girdle and grease it well. Pom: the batter on to it, about a table-spoonful at a time, being careful to keep the scones a nice shape and a little distance apart. When the top surface looks covered with bubbles, slip a broad- bladed knife under the scones and turn them over. When both sides are nicely browned the scones are ready. They should be served quickly and hot buttered. Time to cook, 5 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2669. J lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. |tea-sp. cream of tartar. A pinch of salt. Elcho Scones | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 Some buttermilk sour milk. or Sieve the flour, soda, cream of tartar, and salt into a clean, dry basin, and rub in the butter with