COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 156 off every drop of water, cover the potatoes with a folded cloth or piece of crumpled paper and let them stand by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Shake the pan occasionally until the potatoes are dry and mealy. Then take them up, peel them quickly and serve in a hot vegetable dish, or if preferred serve them in their jackets, placing them in a hot folded serviette. Note.—The potatoes must bo quite sound and free from decay to cook in this way, otherwise it is safer to peel them. Time to cook, about \ hour. 534. Potatoes, To Steam Steaming is one of the simplest and best ways of cooking potatoes. Prepare the potatoes as for boiling (Recipe 532), and cut them to an equal size. Put them into a steamer and sprinkle with salt. Place the steamer on the top of a saucepan of boiling water, and put on the nd. Keep the water in the saucepan underneath the potatoes quickly boiling all the time. The time for cooking will depend on the size and kind of potato. When they can be pierced easily with a skewer, cover them with a clean cloth, remove the steamer from the water and stand it in a warm place until the Potatoes are dry and mealy. Ten minutes should e sufficient. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. 535. Potatoes, To Bake Choose good sound potatoes of equal size. Large or medium sized ones are the best. Wash and brush them in cold water until the skins are per- fectly clean, then dry them. Prick the skins, place the potatoes on a tin in a moderate oven and bake them slowly until tender, which can be ascertained by pressing them gently between the finger 'and thumb. The oven must not be too hot, or the skins of the potatoes will become so hardened that they prevent evaporation and the insides will, in consequence, be damp and heavy. When the potatoes are ready, serve them on a hot folded serviette. Small pats of salt butter should be handed separately. Time to cook, 1 hour or longer. 536. Potatoes, To Roast Potatoes. Dripping. A little flour. Salt. Wash and peel the required number of potatoes as directed in Recipe 532. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them and add a little salt. Allow them to boil for 10 minutes, and then drain. Dredge the potatoes with a little fine flour and put them in a baking tin with some good melted dripping. Cook them in a moderate oven until they are nicely browned and cooked through. They should be turned over occasionally during the, cooking. Drain them from the dripping and sprinkle with a little fine salt before serving. Note.—If a joint of meat is being roasted the potatoes may be cooked in the same tin, putting them in the required time before the meat will be ready. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. 537. Mashed Potatoes l lb. cooked potatoes. | 2 or 3 table-sps. milk. 1 oz. butter or dripping. | White pepper and salt. The potatoes should be well cooked, dry and floury. If newly cooked and hot, add the butter or good beef dripping to them and mash them in the saucepan with a fork or potato masher until they are quite smooth and free from lumps. Then season to taste with white pepper and salt, and moisten with a little milk. If cold potatoes are being used up, it will be better to rub them through a sieve or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan with a little milk and add the sieved potatoes to them. Season to taste and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Put the mashed potatoes into a hot vegetable dish, piling them up in the form of a pyramid Mark prettily with the back of a fork, sprinkle, a very little chopped parsley on the top and serve at once. Or, put the mashed potatoes into a greased fireproof dish, smooth over and mark with the point of a knife. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg and bake in the oven until nicely browned. 538. Potato Snowflakes (Pommes de Terre & la Neige) This dish is made by putting freshly boiled or steamed potatoes through a vegetable presser or wire sieve, and letting them fall on to a hot vege- Vegetable Presser table dish. The potatoes must be very dry, white and mealy in order to look well. This is one of the lightest forms in which to serve potatoes. 539. Potatoes, To Fry (Pommes de Terre Frites) Wash and peel some medium-sized potatoes and cut them in small wedge-shaped pieces. They should be about the size and shape of the section of a small orange. Wipe them very dry in a towel. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of hot fat, and when it is just beginning to smoke it is ready for the potatoes. Put a few potatoes at a time into a frying basket and plunge them gently into the hot fat. They should be well covered with the fat or they will not cook properly. Allow them to cook until they are a golden brown colour, shaking them or turning them over once or twice, so that they are equally coloured on all sides. When ready, lift them out and allow the fat to drain from them. Turn the potatoes on to kitchen paper and sprinkle them lightly with fine salt.