THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 21 cooking should be so arranged that when the oven is lighted it should be made use of to the fullest extent, two or three dishes being cooked in it at the same time. It is a waste of gas to light the oven to cook one dish. For instance, if there is a small roast it maybe cooked on a roasting tin on the bottom shelf, while such things as a milk pudding, potato or macaroni pie, baked potatoes, or stewed fruit might be cooking above. Or, when pastry is being cooked, cakes or scones might be cooked at the same time. It would not, however, do to cook pastry with a roast, as the air of the oven would be too moist. To Grill.—A special grill pan is supplied with every gas stove, and this can be used for many pur- poses, such as the cooking of a chop, steak, kidneys, bacon, fish, or, in fact, anything that could be cooked on an ordinary grill. Very good toast can also be made under the grill. Place the grill pan under the griller, light the gas, and wait until the griller is red-hot before putting the meat or whatever is being cooked underneath. Then proceed as for ordinary grilling, turning the meat and reducing the heat as required. A kettle or saucepan of water may be boiled above the grill light when it is in use. To Make Toast.—Light the gas and wait until the griller is red-hot. Then turn down the light and put the bread underneath on the grid of the grill pan. Watch it very carefully and turn when necessary. The toast must not be made too quickly, or it will be soft and heavy. To Use the Oven.—A gas oven generally contains two or three grid shelves and always one solid shelf. The latter is used to throw down the heat, and is placed above anything that requires browning. Nothing should be placed on the solid shelf or it will burn, with the exception of liquid things or anything that can be placed in a tin of water. The top of the oven is always the coolest part. When dishes in course of baking are becoming too brown before being sufficiently cooked, the solid shelf should be removed altogether. It used to be thought necessary to place a tin of water at the foot of the oven, but this is no longer considered necessary. When roasting meat the joint should either be hung on a hook attached to a bar which runs across the top of the oven, or put on a roasting tin placed on one of the grid shelves at the lower part of the oven. If the former method is adopted the shelves of the oven will require to be removed and nothing else can be cooked at the same time. The thickest part of the joint must always be hung downwards. Heat the oven well before putting the meat in, and after the first 10 minutes reduce the gas one-half, or even more, according to the amount of pressure ; follow in fact the general rules for roasting. When baking cakes the oven should first be thoroughly heated and then the gas turned down more or less according to the special kind of cake, and whether it requires a moderate or hot oven. Place the cake or cakes on the grid shelf and below the browning shelf, and gradually reduce the heat until the cakes are ready. If the cake is large it may be better to keep out the solid shelf altogether and even to cover it over with a double piece of kitchen paper to prevent its taking too much colour. With large cakes, too, it is a good plan to leave them in the oven for about half an hour after the gas has been turned off, and to let them dry slowly in the gradually reducing heat. The same rules will apply to the baking of pastry. If a little care is taken, and attention given to details, a gas oven is really very easy to manage, and after a little practice one becomes quite expert at regulating the heat to a nicety. How to Clean a Gas Stove.—It is very important that a gas stove should be kept clean. The un- pleasant and objectionable fumes which sometimes arise from it are very often due to the greasy and dirty condition of the stove itself. Weekly Cleaning.—Put down a hearth cloth and have in readiness a pail of hot water and soda, one or two strong cloths or swabs, and black-lead brushes, &c., for cleaning purposes. Remove the bars from the top of the stove and wash these in the pail of hot water, using a brush if necessary. Wash the top of the stove, being very careful to make the burners clean; sometimes it may be necessary to clean out the little holes with a piece of wire or a fine skewer if they have become clogged. Wash also the tray under the burners, the oven shelves, the sides of the oven, which are some- times fitted with movable linings, and the tin which stands at the foot. If there are enamelled linings, as in some of the stoves, a little salt or Brooke’s soap may be used for cleaning purposes, and also for the oven tin to remove any brown marks or other dis- coloration. Then black-lead the bars, the top and body of the stove, and put back the different parts in their proper places. Polish the brass taps with metal polish, rub up the steel with fine emery paper, and the stove is finished. Daily Cleaning.—If the stove is thoroughly cleaned once a week it will not require much black- leading the other days, a good brush over with the harder polishing brush should be sufficient. The tray underneath the burners should be washed and also the oven tin if the oven has been used. Whenever grease or any kind of food is spilt on a gas stove during cooking, it should be washed off at once with a cloth wrung out of hot water and soda, because if allowed to remain it will cause the stove to smell the next time it is used. COOKING ON OIL STOVES A small oil stove may sometimes be a conveni- ence when neither gas nor electricity is within reach. In summer, when a big kitchen fire is not required, a stove of this description will often perform all the cooking operations necessary. Being independent of any fittings, it can be moved about at will, and placed wherever it is most convenient. Sometimes, too, in country quarters where the kitchen range is inadequate for the cook- ing required, an oil stove will be found of valuable assistance, and it can even be used in an out-house if the kitchen is small and inconvenient. They are to be had in various sizes, ranging from a small stove on which only one saucepan or kettle can be placed, to a large family stove with oven, boiler, and accommodation for several saucepans as well. It is important to buy a stove of a thoroughly good make, and of late years so many improvements have been made in their construction