SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET 525 . Mix them with a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce or cream, and season with cayenne and salt to taste. Spread this mixture between thin slices of malted bread and butter, trim and cut into shape. Serve garnished with parsley and a few shelled walnuts. PART II SWEET SANDWICHES Sweet Sandwiches Sweet sandwiches can also be made in great variety, in fact there need be no limit to the different kinds, if one is just inclined to do a little experi- menting by trying various combinations. Preserves of all kinds can be used for making dainty little sandwiches for afternoon tea. These should not be too liquid, or if they are so, should be thickened before use with some ratafia, macaroon, or other sweet biscuit crumbs. Crystallised and candied fruits can also be utilised ; but these should be cut in thin slices, and the harder kinds previously softened in a little water, or in wine if preferred. Fresh fruits, too, are very acceptable, such as chopped or sliced apple, chopped pine-apple, thinly sliced pears, bananas, strawberries, &c. Different kinds of nuts, pounded or chopped, are also popular, used either by themselves or in con- junction with cream or some sweet mixture, while a little whipped and flavoured cream will add to the delicacy of most sandwiches. The following are just a few examples of what can be done in the way of making sweet sand- wiches. 2476. Banana and Nut Sandwiches thin shoes of brown or white bread and butter, cut into shapes, and serve on a dainty lace-edged paper. Small finger-shaped rolls may be used instead of the bread and butter. 2479. Chocolate and Apple Sandwiches White bread and butter. Apple. Grated chocolate. Cut some thin bread and butter, and sprinkle it with finely grated chocolate. Teel one or two good eating apples and cut them in thin slices free from core. Put a layer of these slices between two pieces of the prepared bread, and press well together. Trim and cut into neat sandwiches. Serve on lace-edged paper. 2480. Date and Fig Sandwiches 3 or 4 figs. 6 or 8 dates. Orange juice. 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. Bread and butter. Remove the stones from the dates, and pass them and the figs through a mincing machine. Then moisten with orange or lemon juice, and sprinkle in the chopped nuts. Put this mixture into a cup or small basin, and press it with a weight for an hour or two. Then turn out and cut in thin slices, and place these slices between thin bread and butter to make sandwiches. 2481. Ginger and Nut Sandwiches Ginger. Bread. Nut Butter. Spread some thin slices of brown or white bread with nut butter. On half the number of pieces lay thin slices of preserved or crystallised ginger. If the latter, the hard sugar should first be soaked off the outside. Cover with the other pieces of bread, press together and trim neatly. Ripe bananas. I Chopped nuts. Orange or lemon rind. I Bread and butter. Choose small ripe bananas, peel and cut them in slices, and sprinkle with a little grated lemon or orange rind. Prepare some thin brown or white bread and butter, and sprinkle the pieces with chopped or ground nuts—desiccated cocoanut may be used if liked. Put a layer of sliced bananas between two pieces of bread, and press well together. Trim and cut into neat sandwiches. 2482. Honey Sandwiches Pastry slices. Honey in the comb. Make and bake some puff pastry shoes, split them and let them cool. Then place a slice of honey in the comb between the pieces, sprinkle lightly with sugar, and serve at once. 2483. Lemon Curd Sandwiches Lemon curd. Finger biscuits. 2477. Brown and White Sandwiches Gingerbread. I Orange jelly or mar- White bread and butter. I malade. Cut some thin slices of white bread and butter, and spread them lightly with a little orange jelly or marmalade. Then cut some thin slices of gingerbread, and lay them on half the number of pieces of bread. Cover with the remaining pieces of bread, and press well together. Trim and cut into neat sandwiches. 2478. Chocolate Sandwiches 2 table-sps. grated choco- cream. late. Vanilla essence. 2 table-sps. whipped Bread and butter. Mix the chocolate and cream together, adding a few drops of vanilla. Spread this mixture between Take some lemon curd as required for Cheese Cakes (see Recipe 1572)—or it can be bought ready in jars—and spread it between freshly-made finger biscuits; or if preferred, brown or white bread may be used. 2484. Nut Sandwiches . Shelled nuts. I Slices of pastry. Cream. J Seasoning. Any kind of shelled nuts can be used. Toast them for a few minutes in the oven or in front of the fire, and then chop them rather small. Mix with clotted or whipped cream, and season to taste. The mixture may be made either sweet or savoury. Put a thick layer of this inside a finger-shaped piece of pastry. Note.—Honey may be used instead of cream, and gingerbread or any plain cake may be used instead of pastry.