22 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD that they are now more easily regulated and the danger of their smoking is considerably lessened. It is always well to see the stove at work before buying it, and to obtain full instructions as to its use, as with each special make there are certain points which require explanation. One of the greatest objections to oil stoves is their smell, but this can be to a large extent, if not altogether, avoided by proper management and care. Care of the Stove.—To secure the best results, care must be taken to keep the stove very clean and to use only good oil. Inferior oil not only burns badly and gives a poor heat, but it is the cause of many an explosion. The oil receivers should be three-parts filled before using the stove, and the oil should never be allowed to burn too low. It is better to do the filling by means of a feeder, or, failing that, the oil should be poured through a small funnel into the reservoir, care being taken that it is not spilt over. The wicks, too, must fit properly and be kept free from all charring. They should be just long enough to reach the bottom of the receiver. As a rule, a wick should not require cutting, but should be turned low and the uneven charred part gently rubbed off with a piece of cardboard or brown paper and the surface made even with the top of the tubes. If it still remains uneven, it may then be trimmed carefully with a pair of scissors. After this any black pieces of wick must be removed from the burner, and the outside of the receiver rubbed first with a piece of newspaper and then a soft rag, until free from oil. The wicks will require renewing every two or three months if the stove is much used. See that the new wicks are quite dry, and dip the end to be lighted in the oil first. From time to time, both the reservoir and the burner will require to be thoroughly cleaned. The reservoir should be emptied of all oil and washed out with warm suds to which a few drops of am- monia have been added. Rinse thoroughly, and then turn upside down in a warm place to dry. When the burner becomes clogged and dirty, it should be taken to pieces (care being taken to notice how it is fixed together) and put into an old sauce- pan with a lump of soda and enough cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and boil for half an hour. Then rinse in warm water, and use a brush if necessary to remove any charred wick. When quite clean, place in a warm place or a cool oven to dry. The stove must not be refilled until both reservoir and burner are quite dry, or the oil will splutter. To Use the Stove.—It is important that the stove should stand out of a draught, and for this reason, as well as for the sake of convenience, it is better to raise it above the ground. It may be placed either on a simple four-legged stand or, if it is a portable stove, it is a good plan to have a box made which will serve at the same time as packing-case and a stand upon which to place it when in use. The stove should be lit up about 10 minutes before it is required. After lighting the wicks, turn them very low and push the oil lamps back into their place. Then turn up the wicks gradually as far as they will go without smoking. When the stove is thoroughly heated, they may again be slightly lowered. Thin light utensils should be used on the top, so that the heat may penetrate them readily. When baking food in the oven turn it occasionally, as the heat will likely be greater at one side than the other. COOKING BY ELECTRICITY Although we have long been accustomed to the use of electricity for lighting and heating purposes, it is only during the last few years that the public have become familiar with its use in connection with cooking. There is no doubt, however, that this method of cooking will finally supersede the older methods, by virtue of its greater cleanliness, simplicity, safety, reliability, and economy. At the present day, in this country alone, there are thousands of electric cooking stoves in use in private houses, while the fact that many restaurants and business firms use electricity for cooking purposes proves that it is a good business proposition. Many designs of electric cooking stoves can now be obtained, and new ones are continually being invented, the price of which is by no means pro- hibitive. Their use will without doubt make cookery a more exact science than it is at present. Full particulars and prioes of these stoves can be obtained from the manufacturers and electric supply companies. The following are the principal features: 1. The oven is so constructed that the heat from the top and bottom can be independently regulated by switches, and an absolutely even temperature may be maintained as desired. 2. Two or three boiling rings are provided, usually above the oven, all of which can he regu- lated by separate switches, and each one is capable of giving at least three different heats, according to whether boiling, simmering, or frying, &c., is required. 3. A grill is attached which gives out full heat within about thirty seconds of switching. 4. On many stoves a hot chamber is provided for warming plates. It can also be used for baking small cakes, &c. Eclipse Breakfast Cooker The following are the chief advantages of electric cooking: 1. In every case the heat is produced in exactly the place where it is required and only there, the result being that cooking can be carried on in the hottest days without fatigue. 2. Electric cooking is perfectly safe, there being no flames and no combustion of any kind. 3. No especial knowledge is required to operate the stoves, and absolute certainty of results is obtained. 4. All the cooking utensils remain perfectly