‘266 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD possible. Melt the butter in a frying or saute pan, put in the meat, and cook it slowly from 10 to 15 minutes, but do not let it brown. Chop the mush- rooms and shallots, and-add them to the veal with the white sauce. Cook for a few minutes longer. Saute Pau and lastly add the yolks of eggs, parsley, and lemon juice, stirring all the time until the sauce is thick. Dish in a circle on a border of potatoes, pour the sauce over and round, and garnish with croutons of pastry or fried bread. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1093. Medaillons 1 lb. fillet of veal. White stock. 1 glass white wine. Some potted meat. de Veau & la Princesse Mayonnaise sauce. Small cress. Radishes and lettuce. Aspic jelly. Wipe the veal and cut it into neat round pieces about 21 inches in diameter and \ inch thick. Lay these pieces in a stewpan or saute pan, season them with pepper and salt, and pour in the wine and enough white stock to cover them. Cover with greased paper and then the saucepan lid, and stew the meat slowly until t is tender, from 15 to 20 minutes. Then lift out the meat and press the pieces between two dishes until cold. Take any nicely seasoned potted meat, and coat one side of Medaillons de Veau a la Princesse the fillets of veal with it, smoothing them over with a wetted knife. Then coat them with mayonnaise sauce to which a little liquid aspic has been added. Allow this to set, and decorate each piece with tiny rounds cut out of the red part of a radish to imitate berries and leaves of small cress or chervil. A little liquid aspic may be run over the fillets to set the decoration and give them a more glossy appear- ance. When the fillets are quite cold and set, arrange them on a bed of shred lettuce and garnish with a little chopped aspic and thin shoes of radish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1094. Grenadins de Veau a la Provengale 5 or 6 grenadins of veal. Larding bacon. Vegetables and stock for braising. A. little glaze. 5 or 6 rounds of cooked ham. A tittle butter. Puree of spinach. \ pt. sauce provengale. Cut the grenadins from the fillet of veal, making them 4 inch in thickness and 24 inches in diameter. Lard them with bacon, making the lardoons about 14 inches in length (see Larding, p. 205). Some- times the lardoons are passed right through from side to side. Then braise the grenadins from £ to 1 hour, or until they are tender. Lift them out of the stewpan when ready, brush them over with liquid Grenadin of Veal Larded glaze, and place in the oven a few minutes to make the lardoons crisp. Cut the same number of rounds of lean cooked ham, and warm them in a little hot butter. To Serve.—Arrange a puree of spinach on a hot dish, arrange the grenadins and slices of ham alternately along the top, and pour sauce proven9ale round. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1095. Larded Veal a la Nivernaise (Noix de Veau a la Nivernaise) 2 to 3 lbs. fillet of veal. Larding bacon. 14 oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 carrot. A little stock. A small bunch of herbs. Garnish. Glazed carrots. Green peas. Choose a nice piece of veal, trim it if necessary, and lard it with fine lardoons of bacon. Tie it together with string, making it as neat in shape as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan or earthen- ware casserole, put in the meat and brown it lightly on all sides, then add the carrot and onion cut in thin slices and brown them also. Pour in the stock, just enough to moisten the meat, season with pepper and salt, and add the bunch of herbs. Put a tight-fitting lid on the saucepan, and cook in a moderate oven until the meat is tender. Mean- while prepare a garnish of glazed carrots (see Recipe 453) and some cooked green peas. When the meat is ready, lift it on to a baking dish and strain the gravy over it. Then place it in the oven for a few minutes until it becomes brown, basting it with the gravy. To serve, place the meat on an oval dish, removing the string, cut it in slices, or leave it whole as desired, and arrange the garnish in alternate bunches round. Remove all fat from the gravy, and pour it round or serve it separately. If the meat is cut the gravy must on no account be poured over it. 1096. Veal Cream f lb. fillet of veal. 2 oz. raw ham. 1 gill double cream. 3 gills good white sauce. (Creme de Veau) 2 eggs. White pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Grated rind of 4 a lemon. Vegetable to garnish. Wipe the veal, cut it in small pieces and put it twice through the mincing machine with the ham. Put this minced meat into a mortar, add to it the