* SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 269 again. Serve on very neat croutons of fried bread with a grilled mushroom on the top of each. Note.—Other sauces, such as mushroom, piquante, Venitienne, &c., may be used in the same way, the brains being simply reheated in the sauce. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. over and cook in a moderate oven about \ hour. Then lift them on to a hot dish and pour Rouen- naise sauce (Recipe 741) round. Notes.—Pig’s feet may be prepared in the same way. Tomato, piquante, or a plain brown sauce may be used instead of the above. 1105. Pate de Cervelles de Veau Calf’s brains. | Brown sauce. Farce au gratin. I Puff pastry. Prepare the calf’s brains as directed in Recipe 958, cook them in light stock, drain and let them cool. Then cut them in pieces and coat each piece with some farce au gratin (Recipe 1271). Take some puff pastry, roll it out thinly, and cut out two rounds about the size of a soup plate, making one slightly larger than the other. Lay the smaller round on a wetted baking tin, arrange the prepared pieces of brain in the centre, wet round the edges of the paste and lay the larger round on the top. Press the edges together, then roll them towards the centre two or three times, forming a sort of hem round the pate. Make a hole in the top with the point of a knife, brush the pate over with beaten egg, score across lightly with the knife, and bake it in a. good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and nicely browned. When ready, pour in a little hot sauce through the hole in the top to prevent the pate tasting dry. Serve hot. Notes.—If liked, a few cooked and chopped mush- rooms may be sprinkled over the brains before covering them with the pastry. Sheep’s brains may be used in the same way, but a larger number will be required. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. 1106. Calf’s Feet & la Rouennaise (Pieds de Veau & la Rouennaise) 2 cooked calf’s feet. \ lb. sausage meat. 1 glass sherry or 1 stock. 1 small onion. gill ltea-sp. chopped parsley Seasoning. Pig’s caul. A little dripping. Bread-crumbs. Rouennaise sauce. Calves’ feet that have been used for making stock or jelly may be utilised for this dish. Reheat them in the wine or stock and carefully remove all bone. Add to the sausage meat, a small onion finely chopped, the chopped parsley, and more seasoning if necessary. If wine has been used for reheating the feet, add this also, and mix fall well together. Take a piece of pig’s caul, which has been well washed and if possible soaked in water, dry it and spread it out on a board. Then take a spoonful of the sausage meat and arrange it on the caul in an oval shape; lay half a foot on the top, and cover over with a little more sausage meat. Now wrap this up in the caul, cutting off the amount necessary. The caul must not overlap too much; use just enough to make a neat packet, as it were, and then roll into an oval shape. Pro- ceed with the rest of the feet and sausage meat in the same way. When the four packets are made, brush them over with a little melted fat and coat them with bread-crumbs. (Egg must not be used for this purpose, as it forms too hard a coating on the outside and prevents some of the rich fat escaping during the cooking.) Place the stuffed feet on a baking tin, sprinkle a little melted fat 1107. Calf’s Head en Tortue (Tete de Veau en Tortue) This is a somewhat complicated dish, but one which is much esteemed when nicely prepared. It consists of cooked calf’s head, cut in pieces, and served in a good brown sauce with a more or less elaborate garnish. To Cook the Head.—Clean and blanch the head as directed in Recipe 144, insert a piece of carrot in the ears to keep them a good shape, and rub all over with cut lemon to whiten the flesh. Then tie the head in muslin, put it into a large saucepan with fresh cold water to cover it and bring to the boil. Skim well, add a bunch of herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, and a few pieces of carrot. Simmer slowly at least 2 hours, or until the head is tender. The flesh ought to remain slightly firm, if overcooked it falls to pieces and has no taste. When ready, drain and remove the muslin. Then bone the head and cut the flesh in neat pieces. Calf s Bar fringed Keep the ears intact, fringe them with a pair of scissors, and turn them back as in illustration. The Sauce.—Make a good brown sauce, sufficient to well cover the head, add to it a glass of sherry or Madeira and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of tomato puree. Strain or tammy before using. Garnish.—Small fresh mushrooms, cooked in butter, with lemon juice, a very little water, and seasoning to taste—olives, turned and blanched— gherkins, shaped like olives—quenelles, either small or decorated—fried eggs—croutons of fried bread— tongue, cut in small pieces. To Serve.—Heat the pieces of head thoroughly in the sauce, then arrange them neatly in the centre of a hot dish, placing the ears on the top. Heat the garnish in the remainder of the sauce (except any croutons of fried bread) and pour all over the head, arranging the garnish to taste. Note.—Some of the ingredients in the garnish may be omitted, if a simpler dish is wanted. 1108. Rognons de Mouton a la Turque 4 or 5 sheep’s kidneys. 1J oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 glass sherry or Madeira. 1 gill stock. Seasoning. Rice pilaff. Prepare a pilaff of rice according to Recipe 1594, and when required press it into a round cake tin that has been well greased. Make it thoroughly