COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 435 1942. Chocolate Mould, 1 (Moule au Chocolat) 2 oz. chocolate. 3 gills of milk. 2 yolks of eggs. £ oz. gelatine. 1 or 2 oz. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Break the chocolate in small pieces and put it into a lined saucepan with 1 gill of milk. Dissolve slowly over the fire, and cook until smooth. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the remainder of the milk, the gelatine, sugar, and yolks of eggs. Stir again over the fire until almost boiling and until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain into a basin, add a few drops of vanilla, and cool slightly. Then pour into a wet mould and set aside until firm. Turn out when wanted, and serve plain or with whipped cream. Note.—This pudding may be made less rich by omitting the yolks of eggs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1943. Another Way, 2 Make in the same way as Cornflour Mould, mixing 2 oz. powdered chocolate with the cornflour and milk. If cake chocolate is used, it should be grated or shred down and dissolved in a small quantity of the milk, before the larger quantity is poured into the saucepan. Note.—Robinson’s patent barley may be used instead of cornflour. 1944. Coffee Mould (Moule au Cafe) & pt. milk. | pt. strong clear coffee. 2 oz. cornflour. 2 oz. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 1 oz. butter. Put the coffee and half the milk into a saucepan to heat. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the remainder of the milk and add it to the hot liquid in the saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and boil slowly until thoroughly cooked. Add the sugar, butter, and vanilla, and mix well. Pour all into a wet mould, and set aside until cold. Notes.—A little cream added to this is an im- provement. The coffee used should be very strong and clear. Coffee essence may be used instead of fresh coffee, the quantity of liquid being made up With milk or water. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or Sd. 1945. Cornflour Mould 2 oz. cornflour. [ 1 oz. butter. 1 pt. milk. 1 \ oz. sugar, j A little flavouring. Rinse out a small stewpan with cold water, put 3 gills of the milk into it, and make it warm over the fire. Put the cornflour into a basin, and add the remainder of the milk gradually to it, mixing well with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Add’ this to the milk in the saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil until the cornflour is thoroughly cooked, then add the sugar, butter, and any flavouring that is liked. Mix well, and pour while hot into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water. Set aside until cold. When wanted, turn out on a glass or china dish, and serve jam, stewed fruit, or cream with it. Notes.—The butter may be omitted if a plainer mould is wanted. If vanilla pod or bay-leaf is used for flavouring, this should be infused for a short time in the milk, and lifted out before the cornflour is added. Arrowroot, flour, ol rice, or farola mould may be made in the same way, sub- stituting one of these for the cornflour. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1946. Cranberry Mould 1 lb. cranberries. I Cinnamon stick. 1 pt. water. 6 oz. sugar. I Cornflour. Pick and wash the cranberries and put them into a lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and about 2 inches of cinnamon stick. Stew them until reduced to a pulp, and then strain through a hair sieve ov piece of muslin. Press the cran- berries gently to extract all the juice, but not enough to make it cloudy. Measure this juice, and allow 2 oz. of cornflour to each pint. Put it into a lined saucepan, mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little water, add it to the cranberry juice and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly about 10 minutes, then pour the mixture into a wet mould and put it in a cool place to set. Turn out when wanted, and serve with cream or custard sauce. Note.—Small sago or tapioca may be used instead of cornflour to stiffen the juice. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1947. Danish Fruit Jelly (“ Rode Greed ”) 1 qt. raspberry and red currant juice. 2 oz. potato flour or sago flour. Sugar to taste. Vanilla. 2 oz. blanched almonds. To Make the Fruit Juice.—Take about 1 lb. raspberries and 1 lb. red currants, pick them carefully and wash if necessary. Put them into a saucepan with 1 quart cold water and a little sugar, and boil until reduced to a pulp. Then strain through a piece of muslin. Measure the juice, and allow potato or sago flour in tbe above proportion. Put most of the juice into a saucepan, and heat it over the fire. Add the flour mixed smoothly with the remainder of the juice, and stir until boiling. Flavour with vanilla, add more sugar if necessary, and stir in the almonds either finely shred or chopped. Allow the mixture to cool, then pour it into a glass dish, sprinkle with sugar, and serve with cream. Notes.—If liked, a few whole raspberries may also be served in the jelly. Cranberries may be used instead of the raspberries and red currants, ov cranberries and apples mixed. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1948. Devonshire Junket 1 pt. new milk. 1 tea-sp. essence of rennet. 1 table-sp. brandy or rum. 1 table-sp. castor sugar, i tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. Clotted cream. Mix together in a glass bowl or deep dish the brandy, cinnamon, and sugar. Pour on to these 1 pint of new milk, or fresh milk heated to the tem- perature of new milk, and add the rennet. Stir it