HORS-D’(EUVRE AND SAVOURIES 513 2394. Shrimp Croustades (Croustades de Crevettes) 1 gill picked shrimps. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice 1 tea-sp. shrimp essence. Cayenne pepper. A pinch of salt. Croustades of bread. Chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Make some small croustades of bread as directed in Recipe 2246, and fry them to a pretty brown colour. Heat the shrimps in a small saucepan Croustades of Shrimps with the white'sauce, add the cream and seasoning, and heat again. Fill up the cases with this mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Sprinkle them with finely chopped parsley and coralline pepper, arrange 2 or 3 shrimps on the top, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. 2395. Devilled Shrimps (Crevettes a la Diable) Chopped parsley. Lemon. Brown bread and butter. Shrimps. A little flour. Cayenne. Pick the required number of shrimps, and coat them very lightly with flour. Put them into a frying basket, and fry them in boding fat until a golden brown colour. Drain them well and sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and cayenne pepper. Serve pded up on a dish paper, and garnish with small pieces of cut lemon. Thin brown bread and butter should be handed separately. 2396. Croustades of Tongue 3 table-sps. cooked tongue. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs 1 table-sp. cream or sauce. 2397. Tongue Ramakins 4 or 5 oz. cooked tongue 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. I made mus- light and frothy, then add the tongue finely chopped and the shallot, and mix all together. Grease some china or paper ramakin cases, three parts fill them with the mixture, stand them on a tin, and bake in a moderate oven untd set. Have ready the re- maining white of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, pile a little on the top of each ramakin, sprinkle a little coralline pepper over, and return them to a cooler oven until the white is set and lightly browned. Serve hot, garnished with a little parsley. 2398. Woodcock Toast £ lb. poultry or game livers. 1 or 2 anchovies. \ oz. butter. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper. Salt. Pickles. Hot buttered toast. Wash the livers (uncooked) carefully, removing the gall and any green parts ; drain them and dry them in a cloth. Then pound them in a mortar with the anchovies (boned and filleted) and butter, until a smooth paste is formed. If time permits, the mixture may be rubbed through a sieve. Then add to it the yolk of egg and cream, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Put the mixture into a small saucepan, and heat it very gently over the fire without allowing it to boil. Arrange it neatly on small rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast, and decorate with small pieces of pickled walnut and strips of red chilli or other decoration to taste. Serve very hot. 2399. Biscuits & la Diable ham. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers 1 table-sp. brown sauce. Grated Parmesan. Cayenne pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. 5 or 6 small croustades of bread. 7 or 8 small water bis- cuits. Butter. Seasoning. 1 or 2 table-sps. cooked Butter the biscuits, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and toast them in the oven, or put them under the grill for a few minutes. Chop the ham finely, heat it in a saucepan with enough thick brown sauce to bind it together, add the chopped capers and chutney, and season highly to taste. Spread some of this mixture on each biscuit, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and place them under the grill or in a hot oven for a minute. 2400. Biscuits a, la St. Clair Mince the tongue very finely, and pound it until smooth with the bread-crumbs and enough thick cream or tasty sauce to moisten it. Season to taste with cayenne pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if time permits, rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Then heat it in a small saucepan and pile it up in small croustades of bread or in little bouch^es of pastry. Garnish with strips of green gherkin and a little chopped white of egg or parsley. Serve hot. Cheese biscuits. Butter. Made mustard. Cheddar cheese. Bacon. tea-sp. tard. £ tea-sp.chopped shallot Coralline pepper. Put 2 yolks and 1 white of egg into a basin with the mustard and milk or cream. Beat them until Take some water or other plain biscuits and spread them with butter and a little made mustard. Then sprinkle them liberally with grated cheese and put them in the oven to brown. Prepare some little rolls of bacon (Recipe 1646), and either grill them or cook them in the oven. Place a roll of bacon on the top of each biscuit and serve very hot. 2401. Croutes a I’lndienne Rounds of bread. Chopped pickles. Clarified butter. Curry powder. Grated Parmesan. Worcester sauce. Cooked chicken and ham Cut some thin rounds of white bread, dip them in clarified butter and then in grated Parmesan. Chop some cooked chicken and ham very finely, 2 K