FISH 109 309. Lobster Cutlets (Cotelettes de Homard) 1 medium-sized lobster. 1 oz. butter, oz. flour. 1 gill water or fish stock. Cayenne and salt. 1 table-sp. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. A little mustard. Lobster coral. \ oz. butter. Egg and bread-crumbs. Remove all the flesh from a boiled lobster (see p. 108) and chop it very finely, carefully keeping back any little pieces of shell. Reserve the lobster coral, should there be any, wash it and dry it in a cool oven, then pound with the \ oz. of butter, and rub it through a sieve. This is called lobster butter, and it will give a pretty pink colour to the cutlet mixture. Now make a panada with the butter, flour, and fish stock or water, add to it the Lobster Cutlets chopped lobster, lobster butter, cream and season- ing, and mix well together. Spread out the mixture smoothly on a flat plate, and set it aside until cold. Then divide in ten equal portions, which form into cutlets, egg and bread-crumb and fry as directed for Eish Cutlets (Recipe 342). When ready, put a small claw or piece of the red feeler into the narrow end of each, to imitate the bone of the cutlet, and serve garnished with parsley. Note.—Tinned lobster may be used instead of fresh lobster if wished. Sufficient for 10 or 12 cutlets. 310. Lobster a I’Americaine (Homard a l’Americaine) 1 lobster (uncooked) 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot. Seasoning. £ glass brandy. 1 glass white wine. 2 table-sps. tomato puree. 1 tea-sp. meat glaze. 1 tea-sp. chopped par- sley and tarragon. Kill the lobster as directed on p. 107. Take a saute pan, put into it the butter and oil, and make them hot over the fire. Chop the lobster quickly into pieces, reserving the intestines and any liquid which may run from it. Chop also the large claws into two or three pieces. Throw all those pieces (with the shell) into the hot fat and cook them quickly over the fire until they turn red. Then add the shallot and brandy. Let the brandy catch fire and burn until it goes out. Now add the white wine, puree of tomatoes and seasoning, and cook all slowly about 20 minutes. When ready, lift out the pieces of lobster and arrange them neatly in a deep dish, standing up the pieces of head in the centre. Add the meat glaze to the sauce, along with the intestines and liquid, cook quickly for a few minutes, and add the chopped parsley and tarragon. Then draw the saucepan off the fire and add the remainder of the butter in small pieces. Do not boil again (this second piece of butter is added to bind the sauce). Pour the sauce over the lobster, and garnish with any pieces of feeler. Serve hot. Time to cook, | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 311. Lobster a la Newburg (Homard a la Newburg) 1 boiled lobster. 2 or 3 table-sps. sherry or Madeira. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Red pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill cream. 2 yolks of eggs. Croutons of bread. Take the meat from a boiled lobster (see p. 108) and break it into small pieces. Put it on a plate, season with the red pepper, salt, and nutmeg, pour the wine over and stand one hour if possible. Melt the butter in an earthenware casserole, put in the lobster meat, &c., and cook slowly for 6 or 8 minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the cream and add them to the contents of the sauce- pan, stirring all the time. Allow the sauce to thicken without coming to the boil, and serve very hot, garnished with croutons of bread and a sprink- ling of lobster coral. Note.—A few shreds of truffle may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Mussels (Moules) Mussels are not so much eaten in England as abroad, but if they are taken from clean sea water and can be procured perfectly fresh, they make a very good dish. They are generally best at sea- side places. They are very inexpensive and full A. Oyster B. Scallop C. Mussel of flavour, and may even take the place of oysters in many dishes. Small mussels are the best, as they are the most delicate in flavour. They should not be too dark in colour; those of a deep orange colour are un- wholesome. They must be very carefully cleaned and prepared. 312. Mussels, To Prepare and Cook Well wash the mussels in several waters, scraping or scrubbing the shells until they are quite clean. The mussels ought to be lifted out of the water in order to leave the sand. Examine them to see that they are sound ; those that float on the surface of the water are not good. When thoroughly clean put the mussels into a saucepan with a small quantity of water, and cover them with the lid.