558 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD about 1 hour. When well risen, bake the rolls in a quick oven until brown and crisp. Note.—A little sugar may be added to these rolls if wished. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2659. Milk Rolls 1 lb. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. £ tea-sp. salt. 2 tea-sps. baking powder. About £ pt. milk. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter as lightly as possible. Make a well in the centre, and add enough milk to make a softish dough. Mix quickly and lightly, then turn out on a floured board, and form the dough into small rolls. Place them on a greased and floured baking tin and bake at once in a quick oven. The time required will depend on the size of the rolls, from 15 to 20 minutes. When brown and crisp, brush the rolls over with a little milk or melted butter to glaze them. Note.—Success will depend on quick and light working up, and putting the rolls at once in a good oven. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. 2660. Wholemeal Rolls \ lb. wholemeal flour. | lb. ordinary flour. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. baking powder. 1 or 2 oz. butter. About J pt. milk. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin and mix them together. Rub in the butter wit. the tips of the fingers, and make a well in the centre. Add the milk by degrees until a softish dough is formed, then turn on to a floured board and knead lightly until free from cracks. Divide into about twelve equal portions, and form into little rolls. Place them on a greased and floured baking tin, brush over with beaten egg or milk, and bake in a good oven until brown and well risen. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2661. Yorkshire Dinner Rolls 1J lbs. flour. 2 oz. lard or butter. £ oz. yeast. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 lump sugar. 1 pt. milk. Sieve the flour into a basin and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter or lard in a saucepan, add the sugar and milk, and heat them to a luke- warm temperature. Cream the yeast with the salt, pour the milk, &c., on to it, and strain into the middle of the flour. Work the flour gradually into the liquid, and then beat the dough with the hand from 20 to 30 minutes until it looks light and full of air bubbles. Then cover the basin, and set the dough to rise in a warm place. When well risen, work in enough flour to prevent its sticking, form into small rolls, and place them on a greased. and floured tin. Set to rise again for a few minutes and then bake in a good oven. When nearly ready, brush the rolls over with a little milk. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. 2662. Brioche \ lb. flour. 4 to 6 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. 3 small eggs. £ oz. yeast. Warm water. To Make the Sponge or Leaven.-•—Sieve the flour and take a quarter of it. Put this into a basin and make a well in the centre. Mix the yeast with a pinch of salt until smooth and creamy, pour on to it 2 or 3 table-spoonfufs of tepid water, and then strain into the centre of the flour. Mix in the flour and form a softish dough. Roll this in a little flour to make a ball, and cut it across the top with a sharp knife. Then place it in sufficient warm water to cover it whilst preparing the dough (about £ hour). The water must be kept warm, rather more than tepid, but not hot, and the sponge or leaven will swell to two or three times its original volume. To Make the Dough.—Put the remainder of the flour into a basin and make a well in the centre. Add 2 eggs, mix in the flour gradually, adding the third egg by degrees as the whole of it may not be required. Make a softish dough, and when well mixed turn it out on a lightly floured baking board. Now work it and beat it energetically with the hands until it becomes smooth and elastic and no longer sticks to the fingers. Then mix in the sugar, salt, and butter, slightly softened. When these are well incorporated, drain the sponge, place it in the centre of the other dough, and mix it in very lightly and without beating the dough. Put the dough into a floured basin, cover it over, and let it stand in the natural heat of the kitchen for about 3 hours, when it should have swelled to twice its original volume. Then beat i|e dough down to make it fall again, and set iun a cool place until the next day, beating it down again if it rises too much. It may be kept for 24 hours in this way as long as it is not allowed to rise too high. To Make Small Brioches.—Grease small fluted brioche tins. Take some brioche dough, cut off Eieces the size of a large walnut, roll them in the ands to form compact little balls, and place one in each tin. Then cut some smaller pieces of dough, the size of a small nut, roll them first into little balls, then into little carrot-shaped pieces with a point. Place'one of these pieces on the top of each Brioche ball of dough in the tins, inserting the pointed end well into the centre. Score the lower piece of dough across two or three times with a knife, and place the brioche in a warm place to rise. When double their original size, brush them over with