SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 207 3. The meat is kept soft and juicy by the action of the oil. 4. The marinade acts as a preservative, and a iece of meat soaked in this way can often e prevented from turning bad. different methods of cooking meat Baking or Roasting This is one of the most popular ways of cooking meat, in fact it might be called our national method. At the same time it is perhaps one of the most expensive methods, as there is always considerable waste owing to shrinkage of the meat, and it is only successful if the best cuts are used. A tough or inferior part of meat should never be roasted, but either braised or stewed. Roasting, properly speaking, is cooking in front of an open fire, but owing to the limited accom- modation and the construction of the stoves in modern houses this method of cooking has become a thing of the past, and baking or roasting in the oven has taken its place. Meat to be roasted should be carefully trimmed, removing from it any gristle and superfluous fat, then weighed and well wiped with a damp cloth. Washing should be avoided unless really necessary. If frozen meat is being used, the joint should be allowed to thaw slowly in a warm kitchen for several hours before it is cooked. The tin used Double Roasting Tin for roasting should, if possible, be a double one, the under one being large enough to hold a little water, which will keep the air of the oven moist and prevent the fat in the upper portion from becoming too hot and acquiring a burnt taste. The meat should be placed on a small stand or trivet in the baking tin to prevent it soaking in the dripping and becoming sodden. The tin should be large enough to hold the meat comfortably without projecting over the edges. The first point in baking or roasting is to expose the meat to a high temperature for 10 minutes or longer, in order to brown the outside and form a coating, as it were, to prevent the escape of the juice. Then the heat may be reduced, and the cooking continued until the joint is sufficiently roasted. If the heat of the oven can be gauged by a thermometer, the temperature should be 310° F. when the meat is first put in, and subse- quently reduced to between 260° and 300°. During the process of cooking the meat must be basted with dripping or other fat at intervals of 10 or 15 minutes to prevent its becoming dried up. If the meat is not sufficiently fat in itself, a little butter, dripping, or other fat should be put into the roasting tin. The spoon used for basting should be a long one, and it ought to be laid on a plate when not in use to prevent the drops of grease soiling the stove. Unless the meat is kept moist with fat during the roasting, the process will not be a success. For this reason game, poultry, and meats that are wanting in fat are very often larded (see p. 206), or barde—that is, covered with slices of fat bacon. Poultry and small joints should be covered with greased paper when they are first put into the oven to prevent them becoming brown too quickly. This covering can be removed a short time before the meat is taken from the oven to allow for browning. It is very important that the oven should be clean and well ventilated, otherwise the operation of roasting will cause a most unpleasant smell. The ventilator must be kept open all the time. It is impossible to lay down any exact rule regarding the time for roasting meat, as the form and thickness of the joint must always be taken into consideration as well as its weight. A long thin piece of meat would naturally take a shorter time to cook than a thick solid piece of equal weight. The approximate time for cooking beef and mutton is 15 minutes to the pound and 15 minutes over, and for pork, lamb, and veal 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over; but common sense and experience wall be found to be the best guides. Beef and mutton may be left rather underdone if fancy dictates, but white meats are unwholesome unless thoroughly cooked. If the joint is large and thick it should be turned at least once during the process of cooking. Sprinkle the meat with pepper and salt when it is nearly ready, as salt sprinkled on before the meat is brown will draw out the juice and toughen the fibre. When the meat is ready, lift it on to a hot dish and keep it warm while the gravy is being made. Roasting in a Pan Small joints of meat and birds can be roasted in an iron stewpan, and this is sometimes a more convenient method than having to heat an oven for the purpose. First melt a small quantity of dripping or other fat in the stewpan and make it very hot. Then put in the meat, baste it well, and put on the fid. Stand the saucepan where the contents wdll continue to cook at a good even temperature, and baste frequently, the same as in other roasting. The meat should be turned once or twice during the process, and when sufficiently cooked, served in the same way as above. Gravy for Roast Meat Clear Gravy.—For all simple roasts a clear unthickened gravy is the best. Pour away the fat from the roasting-pan and reserve it for future use. Add a small quantity of boiling water to the pan, and with an iron spoon rub down any glaze or meat juice which adheres to the sides. Boil two or three minutes, add salt to taste, and remove any grease from the surface with kitchen paper. Strain a little of the gravy round the joint, and serve the remainder in a sauce-boat. It is awkward for the carver if the dish is made too full.