622 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the wick is of cotton,- and in others it is made of asbestos covered with a fine wire netting. Only the very best spirit should be used for burning pur- poses, and this will ultimately prove less expensive than that of an inferior quality. Good spirit will give more heat and will also burn with less odour. The lamp should be properly filled before any cook- ing is commenced, as there is nothing more annoying than having to stop in the middle owing to want of fuel. It will always be found easier to do the heating up of tinned food, for Welsh and other rare- bits, and many little savoury dishes, &c. &c. There is nearly always a certain amount of pre- paration required for chafing-dish cookery. Only the actual cooking and serving should be done at the table itself, otherwise the process would be too tedious for the onlookers. All the different in- gredients should be measured and prepared as much as possible beforehand, then put into small cups or basins in readiness. Spirit Flagon and Filler filling from a proper filler, and if any alcohol is spilt it should be wiped up with a cloth before lighting. Needless to say there must be no flame when the filling is being done. When properly filled the chafing-dish lamp should burn from 30 to 40 minutes, quite long enough for all ordinary purposes. The light should be extinguished as soon as the cooking is finished. The toaster is not indispensable, but it is useful when no other fire is available, as nice pieces of crisp toast are a very necessary accompaniment to many of the dishes. The asbestos side is placed next the flame, and the bread laid on the metal top, and turned in the usual way. The chafing dish is generally used on the table on which the meal is served, and the food is helped directly from it. Garnishing has therefore little or no part. The dish with its equipment should be placed on a metal tray, and be shielded from any draught. No fight must be put to the lamp until it is in its proper place, it would be most dangerous to carry it about whilst burning. Although the chafing dish has its limitations as far as cooking is concerned, it is more than a mere toy, and its offices can be more than ornamental. Food can either be cooked in it, re-cooked, or kept warm. It is best suited to foods that take only a short time to cook, or a short time to finish, the finishing only being done on the chafing dish. It is very suitable for the cooking of eggs, omelets, and the so-called cream dishes, such as creamed oysters, lobster, chicken, &c., for fight stews, ragouts, and curries, for many a rechauffe, where the food is simply reheated in a good sauce, for the RECIPES 3002. Apple Slices 3 or 4 apples. 1 table-sp. wine or brandy. Juice of $ lemon. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. \ tea-sp. cinnamon. Hour. 2 oz. butter. Choose good soft cooking apples, peel them, core them, and cut them in slices about J of an inch in thickness. Lay these slices on a deep plate, sprinkle them with the sugar and cinnamon, pour over the wine or brandy and lemon juice, and let them soak at least ยฃ hour. Then drain the apples, and coat each slice with finely-sifted flour. Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish; when smok- ing hot put in the apple slices, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. 3003. Fried Bananas 3 or 4 bananas. Lemon or orange juice, 1 oz. butter. or sherry. Castor sugar. Peel the bananas, split them lengthwise, and then cut them across in four pieces. Melt the butter in the blazer, put in the bananas, and fry them over a gentle flame until sufficiently cooked. Then serve them very hot, sprinkled with sugar and a few drops of orange or lemon juice, sherry wine or liqueur. 3004. Fillets of Beef Cut ยง lb. cf fillet of beef in neat pieces, beat them out rather thin, and season with pepper and salt. Melt 1 oz. butter in the blazer of the chafing dish; when smoking hot put in the fillets, and fry them about five minutes on each side. Serve them very hot, and if gravy is wished, pour away all fat from the pan, add a little good stock, boil up, and pour round the meat. A few slices of lemon may be used as a garnish. 3005. Brains with Eggs 1 cupful brains. I 3 or 4 eggs. 1 oz. butter. | Seasoning. Parboil the brains as directed in Recipe 958. Trim them carefully, and either chop them or break them up with a fork. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the brains, and let them heat thoroughly for 4 or 5 minutes. Beat up the eggs, and stir them in with seasoning to taste. Allow the mixture to thicken without overcooking the eggs, and then serve at once on croutons of fried bread or with fingers of toast.