534 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2528. Flaked Haddock in Shells 1 small fresh haddock. White sauce. Salt and pepper. A few bread-crumbs. A little lemon juice. Steam a small haddock (see p. 532), and, when cooked, lift the flesh from the bones and let it fall in flakes. Season it nicely with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Place the fish in small greased china shells, and coat well with white sauce ; sprinkle a few bread-crumbs on the top, and bake in a hot oven about 10 minutes. Notes.—Any other white fish may be used in- stead of haddock, or remains of cold cooked fish. 2529. Fricass6e of Oysters | doz. oysters. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. A squeeze of lemon juice. Choose very fresh oysters. Put them into a small lined saucepan with their liquor, and just bring them to the boil. Then strain, reserving the liquor. Melt the butter in the saucepan, and stir in the flour, add the oyster liquor gradually, and stir until boiling. Cook a minute or two, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolk of egg, oysters, lemon juice, and seasoning. Do not boil again, but serve at once with a little dry toast or toast biscuits. 2530. Stewed Smelts 2 or 3 smelts. I Seasoning. £ tea-cupful light stock. | Lemon. Cut the heads oii the smelts and clean them care- fully. Place them in a small fireproof dish with a little light stock or, if allowed, some white wine, and seasoning to taste. Cover the dish and cook in the oven until tender. Serve on the same dish, garnished with a few thin slices of lemon. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. 2531. Baked Sole or Plaice 1 small sole or plaice. i 3 table-sps. milk. 2 or 3 table-sps. bread- A little parsley, crumbs. | Pepper and salt. A little butter. I Fillet the fish and cut it in neat-sized pieces. Dip these in milk, and then in fine bread-crumbs in which a little finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and salt have been mixed. Cover each piece rather thickly. Place the fish in a small greased fireproof dish, pour the milk round, put a cover or piece of greased paper on the top, and bake quickly 10 or 15 minutes. Then remove the cover, sprinkle some dry crumbs over the fish, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and brown lightly. Note.—A small haddock or whiting may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2532. Fillets ( 1 small sole. | gill of water. 1 slice of toast. | tea-sp. cornflour. 1 tea - sp. chopped Fillet the sole and wip cloth. Season the fillets f Sole on Toast parsley. | oz. butter. A pinch of salt. A little lemon juice. e the pieces lightly with a with salt and a few drops of lemon juice, and roll them up with the skin side inside. Place these rolls in a small saucepan with the water and butter, and cook slowly from 10 to 15 minutes, then lift them out carefully. Arrange them on a neat piece of toast, and keep them warm while you make the sauce. Put the cornflour into a cup, and mix it smoothly with a little cold water, add it to the liquid in the saucepan, and stir until boiling. Add the parsley very finely chopped, cook 2 or 3 minutes longer, and pour over and round the fish. Note.—The yolk of an egg may also be added to the sauce at the last. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. 2533. Fillets of Sole with Tomatoes 1 small sole. 1 tomato. I A squeeze of lemon Pepper and salt. [ juice. First skin and fillet the sole (see p. 78). Wipe the fillets and lay them out, with the side which the skin came off lying uppermost. Season each fillet with a little pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Double each fillet over, the thin end towards the thick, and place on a tin greased with a little butter. Wipe the tomato, remove the stalk, and cut it into four pieces. Lay these pieces on the tin beside the fish, and cover all with a piece of greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, until the fish looks quite white and has lost its transparent appearance. Lift the fillets carefully on to a hot dish, and serve the pieces of tomato round them. Other Fish Dishes In addition to the recipes given above many in the “ Fish ” section of the book would also be suitable for invalids and convalescents, such as the following :—Boiled Fish, Fried Fish, Grilled Fish, Cod’s Roe, Stewed Eels, Fish Cakes, Fish Cream, Fish Cutlets, Fish Omelet, Fish Que- nelles, Fish Souffle, Fish Pie with Macaroni, Fish Pie with Rice, Fricassee of Fish, Kedgeree, Stuffed Fillets of Haddock, Scalloped Oysters, Oyster Souffle, Smelts au Gratin, Fillets of Sole a, la Creme, Grilled Trout, Baked Whiting. Time to cook, 15 minutes. VEGETABLES FOR AN INVALID Although fresh vegetables are valuable on account of the mineral salts they contain, they come as a rule rather late in a sick-room dietary, as the majority of them require a somewhat vigorous digestion. Among the green vegetables, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, spinach, lettuce (cooked), and asparagus should have the first choice. Sea-kale, celery, endive, Spanish onions, and leeks are all considered wholesome if well cooked, but it will be found that certain vegetables agree with one system and not with another. The root vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, parsnip, beetroot, and potato are not usually included in an invalid’s diet. 'When potatoes are given they must be very dry and mealy, or they may be sieved or given in the form of a puree. Rice, macaroni, spaghetti, and other forms of Italian paste form good substitutes for fresh vegetables, when the latter are not allowed.