601 SWEET MAKING which has been lined with greased paper. When set, mark in squares, and break in pieces when cold. 2871. Chocolate Walnuts Make in the same way as Coffee Walnuts, flavour- ing the fondant with some grated or shred un- sweetened chocolate instead of the coffee essence. 2872. Ginger Creams Make in the same way as Peppermint Creams, flavouring the fondant with strong essence of ginger instead of the peppermint, and colouring it a pale yellow. A little chopped preserved ginger may be added. 2873. Ginger Tablet 2 lbs. Demerara sugar. ] 1 oz. ground ginger. 2 gills cold water. | Put the sugar and water into a lined or copper saucepan, and stir till they come to the boil. Re- move any scum, and then boil till a little dropped in water will form a “ soft ball,” about 245° F. Take the saucepan off the fire, add the ginger, and keep stirring until the mixture begins to turn thick. Have a flat oven tin lined with greased paper, pour the mixture into this, and let it remain until cold. Cut or saw into neat pieces of equal size. A better way of shaping the tablet is to lay four steel rods, which are sold for the purpose, on a marble or stone slab so as to form a square, and to pour the tablet in the centre of this. By this means the edges will be kept even and the pieces will be more regular in shape. Note.—Lemon and rose tablet can be made in the same way, substituting white loaf for brown sugar, and essence for the ground seasoning. 2874. Neapolitan Squares Prepare three or more colours of fondant and of different flavours. Roll them out to a similar shape and about J inch in thickness. Put one piece on the top of the other, and press them lightly together with the rolling-pin. Then brush the top over with sugar syrup, or with liquid fondant, and coat it with ground almonds or cocoanut. Allow the block to stand overnight, and then cut it in small squares. 2875. Opera Creams 1 lb. loaf sugar. Cream. 1 gill water. Icing sugar. 2 oz. glucose. Flavouring. Put the sugar, water, and glucose into a sauce- pan and melt slowly over the fire, stirring all the time until the sugar is melted. Skim well and wash any scum off the sides of the saucepan with a small brush. Then boil with the thermometer to 245°. Pour on a slab, cool slightly, and work until white, first with a wooden spoon or spatula, and then with the hands, in the same way as fondant. Then put this fondant back into the saucepan, add a little cream and enough icing sugar to bring it back to the right consistency for shaping. Flavour to taste, and put out again on the slab. Form into a square, using a little icing sugar to prevent its sticking to the hands. Then roll out to 1 inch in thickness, making the mixture as smooth and even as pos- sible. Leave until cold and set, and then cut in squares with a very sharp knife or with a caramel cutter. These creams are great favourites, and they may be made in a variety of colours and flavours. Note.—Opera creams may also be used as centres for chocolates. 2876. Orange Bon-bons 6 oz. fondant. 1 orange. Orange colouring. A pinch of citric acid. Icing sugar. Candied orange peel. Take fondant that has been boiled to 245° (see Recipe 2858) and work it on a marble slab until soft and pliable. Wipe the orange, peel the yellow rind off very thinly, and chop it as fine as possible. Add this to the fondant with a tea-spoonful of orange juice, the citric acid, and a few drops of orange colouring. Mix all together, form into small shapes, using a little icing sugar, place a thin piece of candied peel on the top, and lay the sweets on a papered tray to dry. 2877. Peppermint Creams, 1 1 lb. icing sugar. I Oil of peppermint. 1 white of egg. | 1 table-sp. water. Sieve the icing sugar into a basin, and moisten with the white of egg and water. Work with the hands into a smooth, soft paste, flavouring with a few drops of oil of peppermint. When the paste is pliable and free from cracks, roll it out to § of an inch in thickness on a board that has been sprinkled with sieved icing sugar. Cut out into rounds with a small cutter, and place aside on a sheet of white paper sprinkled with castor sugar, and let them re- main until dry. The cutter should be dipped into castor sugar to prevent its sticking to the paste. The scraps ought to be pressed together and rolled out again until all are used. 2878. Peppermint Creams, 2 1 lb. icing sugar. f tea-sp. cream of tartar. 2 or 3 table-sps. of cream. A few drops oil of pep> permint. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the cream of tartar, and, when thoroughly mixed, add enough cream to form a stiff paste. Turn out on a sugared board, and knead with the hand until smooth and pliable, working in the peppermint flavouring. Then cover the paste over, and let it rest for an hour. Finish off as above. 2879. Peppermint Creams, 3 1 lb. fondant. Oil of peppermint. Water. Make the fondant according to directions given in Recipe 2858, boiling it to 240°. Put it into a saucepan with a very little water, or stock syrup, and warm carefully over the fire. Flavour with oil or essence of peppermint. Remove the sauce- pan from the fire or gas occasionally and beat the fondant in order to make glossy. Heat it until it feels uncomfortably hot when the tip of the finger is held in it. If the fondant is not made hot enough, the peppermint creams will not harden, and, if too hot, they will become hard and streaky- looking. Be careful, too, about the amount of water used; the fondant should be of a thick creamy consistency. If made too thin the creams