170 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD cooked vegetables into it, and allow them to simmer a few minutes, until they are thoroughly heated and flavoured with the sauce. Serve on a hot dish with a border of rice round, or the rice may be served in a separate dish. Vegetable Marrow (Courge) The vegetable marrow belongs to the gourd family and there are several different kinds. To taste it in perfection it should be cooked while still quite small, not more than 5 or 6 inches in length. It can then be cooked whole, as the seeds have not begun to form. When cooking an older marrow which requires peeling and cutting, it is better to steam, bake, or braise it, as boiling in water will make it very tasteless. The vegetable marrow is very delicate in flavour and easily digested. about | inch in thickness, and with a small cutter stamp out the seeds and soft part from the centres, leaving rings of marrow. Put these rings on a plate, sprinkle them with salt and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Cover with another plate and let them stand at least one hour. Then drain off every drop of water, and lay the pieces of marrow between the folds of a towel to dry. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat. Coat a few pieces of marrow at a time with fine flour, put them into a frying basket and fry in the fat until they are brown and crisp. Drain on paper and pro- ceed with the remainder in the same way. When all are ready, serve them piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them and garnish with sliced lemon and a little parsley. Time to fry, 5 to 7 minutes each lot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 602. Vegetable Marrow with White Sauce (Courge & la Sauce Blanche) 1 small vegetable marrow. Salt. 4 pt. white sauce. Wash the marrow, cut it in quarters, remove the seeds, and peel it thinly. Cut it into neat- sized pieces and throw them into cold water until wanted. Then place the pieces in a steamer, sprinkle with salt, and cook them over boiling water until they feel tender and look transparent. Have ready some white sauce made according to directions given in Recipe 671, and nicely seasoned. Arrange the pieces of marrow neatly in a hot vegetable dish and pour the hot sauce over them. Note.—If preferred, the marrow may be cooked in milk and the milk afterwards used for making the sauce. Time to steam, \ to | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 603. Vegetable Marrow with Cheese (Courge au Fromage) 1 small marrow. 2 gills milk. 1 small onion. 1 gill water. 2 or 3 cloves. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. cornflour. Prepare the marrow as above and put the pieces into a lined saucepan. Pour over them the milk and water and add the onion stuck with the cloves. Cook the marrow slowly until it feels quite tender, then drain it and reserve the liquid for making the sauce. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the cornflour and mix the two smoothly together. Then Eour on the strained milk and water and stir until oiling. Allow this sauce to cook for 2 or 3 minutes and season it to taste with a little white pepper, salt, and made mustard. Add most of the cheese and mix it well in, but do not boil again. Arrange the pieces of marrow in a greased fireproof dish, pour the sauce over them and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top. Brown in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Time to cook, 20 or 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 604. Vegetable Marrow, Fried (Courge Frite) 1 small vegetable marrow. I Salt. Lemon juice. | A little flour. Choose a. young fresh marrow, wash and peel it, keeping it whole. Then cut it across in slices 605. Vegetable Marrow, Stewed (Courge au Jus) 1 vegetable marrow, i pt. white stock. 1 onion. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. Wash and peel the marrow, removing all the seeds and the soft part from the centre. Then cut it into small square pieces and throw them into cold wateB to which a few drops of vinegar have been added. Put the stock into a stewpan and bring it to the boil, add the onion finely chopped and allow it to cook about 10 minutes. Drain the marrow and add it to the stock with pepper and salt if necessary. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until the marrow is tender. Now strain off the liquid, put the marrow into a hot vegetable dish and keep it warm. Return the stock to the saucepan, add to it the cornflour broken with a little cold water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook for 2 or 3 minutes, then stir in the yolk of egg and parsley, but do not boil again. Pour this sauce over the marrow and serve hot. Note.—The yolk of egg may be omitted. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 606. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 1 (Courge Farcie) 1 small vegetable marrow. 3 table-sps. minced meat. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. of chopped parsley. A little grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. sauce or beaten egg. Salt, pepper. \ pt. brown, tomato, or parsley sauce. Wash and peel the marrow, keeping it whole. Then cut a wedge out of it lengthwise and care- fully scoop out all the seeds and soft pulpy part with a tea-spoon. Now prepare the stuffing. Put into a basin the chopped meat, bread-crumbs, and parsley, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Mix well and then bind together with a spoonful of good sauce of any kind, or a little beaten egg. Put this stuffing into the marrow and fix in the wedge again. Wrap it up in well-greased paper and bind round with a piece of tape, or put it into a greased paper bag and fix it firmly so that it has no room to spread. Place the marrow on a well-greased baking tin, cover it with another tin and bake in a moderate oven until tender. Then remove it from