410 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1809. Baked Apples in Batter Batter. 2 or 3 juicy apples. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. A little butter. Make the batter as directed in Recipe 1889, and allow it to stand an hour if possible. Grease a Yorkshire pudding tin, and lay the apples thinly sliced at the bottom of it. Sprinkle them with the sugar and ground cinnamon, or grated lemon rind if preferred, and pour the batter over. Lay small pieces of butter here and there on the top, and bake in a good oven until well browned and nicely risen. Cut in pieces and serve quickly, sprinkled with sugar. Note.—Other kinds of fruit may be used in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. 1810. Bread and Apple Pudding 3 or 4 slices bread and butter. 1 lb. apples. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 cup syrup. | cup water. 2 table-sps. Demerara sugar. Grease a pie dish or deep baking dish-and line it neatly with slices of bread and butter. Pill the dish with apples, which have been peeled, cored, and thinly sliced, and sprinkle them with the ground cinnamon. Mix the syrup and water together, pom1 them over the apples and sprinkle the sugar over. Put another layer of bread and butter on the top, cover the dish and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, turn out the pudding carefully, sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve hot with a jug of cream. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1811. Apple Charlotte (Charlotte aux Pommes) Bread. Clarified butter. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. H lbs. apples. Flavouring. Water. 2 yolks of eggs. Take a plain lj-pint tin souffle mould or high cake tin, grease it carefully with clarified butter, and dust it out with castor sugar. Cut some strips of stale bread about 1 inch wide and the height of the tin in length. Dip these in clarified butter and line the sides of the tin with them, arranging them closely together and brushing over the joins with a little beaten egg. Cover the bottom of the tin with a round piece of bread dipped in butter, and a second round should also be pre- pared ready for the top. Choose good soft apples, which will cook easily. Stew them with the sugar and very little water, and reduce them to a thick pulp. Flavour with a little lemon, nutmeg, or cinnamon, according to taste, add the yolks of eggs, and fill up the mould. Lay the round of bread dipped in butter on the top, and bake in a good oven. When ready, turn out carefully and sprinkle with sugar. A little cream and castor sugar may be served separately. Time to bake, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, la. 1812. Baked Apple Custards 1 cupful apple pulp. 1 cupful milk. Sugar to taste. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A few drops of carmine. Prepare the apple pulp by rubbing some nicely stewed or baked apples through a sieve. The pulp must be of a good thick consistency. Mix it with the milk, the butter melted, and sugar to taste. Then add two yolks and one white of egg beaten together, and three or four drops of carmine to make all a pinkish colour. Pour the mixture into small greased fireproof dishes, and bake in a mode- rate oven until set. Then whip up the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth and pile a little on the top of each custard. Dredge with sugar and return to the oven for a few minutes to become lightly browned. These may be served hot or cold. Note.—Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 small custards. Probable cost, 6d. 1813. Apples a la Florentine (Pommes a la Florentine) 4 or 5 apples. A little butter. Sugar. 2 table-sps. marmalade. | pt. white sauce. 2 yolks and 1 white of egg. Vanilla. 2 macaroon biscuits. Choose good sound apples of medium size. Peel them, cut them in four or six pieces, and remove the core. Place the pieces in a well-buttered pie dish, sprinkle with sugar and place a few small pieces of butter on the top. Cover the dish and cook the apples in the oven 10 to 12 minutes. Then take a fireproof dish that can be sent to table, grease it, put the marmalade at the bottom, and arrange the pieces of apple on the top. Have ready about \ pint good white sauce, sweeten it to taste, and flavour with vanilla or any other flavouri ng preferred. Then remove the sauce- pan from the ffie, and stir in quickly the two yolks and the one white of egg. Pour this sauce over the apples, wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Then sprinkle with the macaroon biscuits made into crumbs, and a little more sugar. Brown quickly under the grill of the gas stove or in a very hot oven. Serve hot in the same dish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1814. Apples a la Madame (Pommes a la Madame) 4 or 5 apples. 2 eggs. 1 gill of milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. macaroon-crumbs. 2 oz. butter. Peel the apples, cut them in thin slices, and stamp out the cores with a small cutter. Butter a pie dish or fireproof dish, and lay the apples in it in layers, with the macaroon-crumbs and sugar. Pour, over all, the remainder of the butter melted, and bake in a hot oven until the apples are tender. Beat up the eggs, add the milk and a little sugar, and pour this custard over the apples. Return to the oven until a golden colour, and serve hot, sprinkled with sugar. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons, Probable cost, 9d.