311 FORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES and stir over the fire until smooth and the mixture draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove it from the fire, add the yolks of eggs, seasoning, and parsley, and beat for a few minutes. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Drop small tea-spoonfuls of this mixture into boiling salted water and cook 7 or 8 minutes. When the dumplings are ready, lift them out of the water with a perforated spoon, letting them drain well; place them in a hot soup tureen and pour hot soup over them. 1296. Rice Balls for Soup 3 oz. rice. 1 tea-cupful cold water. 1 tea-cupful milk. Salt. Pepper. I oz. butter. 1 egg. A little flour. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the milk and water, and cook it until quite soft and thick. Season with pepper and salt, add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and beat all together with a fork. Then add the egg slightly beaten, and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When set and firm, form into small balls the size of a marble, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands. Cook the balls about 10 minutes in boiling stock or salted water, drain them well, put them in the soup tureen, and pour the hot soup over them. 1297. Suet Dumplings for Soup I lb. flour. I Salt. Pepper, oz. suet. I A little water. Chop the suet very finely and mix it with the flour and seasoning. Moisten with cold water, being careful not to make the paste too wet. Form into small balls the size of a walnut, using a little flour. Drop them into boiling water or stock and boil slowly 10 minutes. Drain, put them in the soup tureen, and pour the hot soup over. 1298. Chicken or Veal Quenelles for Garnish Make the quenelle meat according to directions given in Recipe 1099. Then one of the following methods can be adopted for shaping the quenelles : (1) shape the quenelle meat in small tea-spoons or egg-spoons like ordinary quenelles and poach them in boiling water about 10 minutes. (2) Put the quenelle meat into a forcing bag with..a small pipe I inch in diameter and force out the mixture in little heaps, or egg-shaped pieces, on to the bottom of a greased saute or frying pan. Pour boiling water gently round, and let these poach or cook slowly until they are set, about 10 minutes. Lift them up with a perforated spoon and carefully drain them on a clean cloth. A paper cornet may be used instead of the forcing bag and pipe. Make a paper cornet, put in a little of the quenelle meat, and then cut off the pointed end, sufficient to form a hole about J inch in diameter. (3) Put the quenelle meat into a forcing bag with a pipe J inch in diameter and force out long-shaped pieces, and when these are cooked and drained, cut them in slices. When the quenelles are made by one of the above methods and well drained, use as required, and if for soup put them into a hot tureen and pour the soup boiling hot over them. 1299. Decorated Quenelles These are sometimes used as a garnish for meat or fish. Well grease the bowl of 3 or 4 dessert- spoons according to the number of quenelles re- quired, and decorate them with small fancy-shaped pieces of truffle, or the red part of cooked ham or tongue. Fill the spoons with quenelle meat, round it on the top with a wetted knife. Then dip the spoons with the quenelles in them into slowly simmering salted water, and after a minute or two the spoons can be removed, leaving the garnish adhering to the quenelles. Continue poaching the quenelles until sufficiently cooked. Quenelle-shaped moulds may of course be used instead of the spoons, the above method is only necessary when these are not at hand. 1300. Fish or Game Quenelles for Garnish Make in the same way as above, using fish or game quenelle meat. PART III VARIOUS GARNISHES 1301. Croutons of Bread for Soup These are served with all thick soups. Use bread not less than one day old; it should be light, but rather close in texture and free from any large holes. Cut slices oS the bread about £ inch in thickness, take off the crust, cut the slices in strips £ inch wide, then cut these across into even squares. Or, the bread may be cut in small rounds or fancy shapes with a vegetable cutter. About one small slice of bread should be allowed for each person, or less if for a number. If the bread is soft, let the croutons dry for a short time on the rack above the fire or in a cool oven. These croutons may either be fried in boiling fat or in clarified butter in a frying pan, or soaked in stock and browned on a greased tin in the oven. Drain well on kitchen paper before serving. They should be crisp, dry, of an amber colour and hot.