481 ICES 2185. Grape Water lee (Glace aux Raisins) 1 table-sp. orange-flower water. \ glass Marsala. Pistachio nuts. 1 lb. muscatel grapes. Rind and juice of 2 lemons. J pt. syrup for ices. Stalk the grapes, and wipe them carefully in a clean cloth. Crush them and rub them through a hair sieve. Make the syrup according to directions given above, boiling with it the thinly-peeled rind of the 2 lemons. Strain the syrup and lemon juice on to the grape puree, add the orange- flower water and Marsala, and stand until cold. Freeze, and serve piled up in small cups, sprinkled with finely-chopped pistachio nuts. 2186. Lemon Water Ice (Glace au Citron) 1 gill lemon juice. I 4 pt. syrup for ices. Rind of 2 lemons. | I white of egg. Make in the same way as Orange and Lemon Water Ice (see below). 2187. Melon Water Ice (Glace au Melon) 1 melon. 1 pt. water. I I lemon. Sugar. 1 orange. | 1 glass maraschino. Choose a ripe melon of medium size. Peel it and slice it thinly, removing the seeds. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan with the thinly- peeled rind of the orange and lemon. Bring these to the boil and add the sliced melon. Simmer slowly for 10 minutes, and then rub all through a hair sieve. Add the strained juice of the orange and lemon along with the maraschino, cool, and freeze in the usual way. 2188. Orange and Lemon Water Ice (Glace au Citron et a 1’Orange) 4 pt. orange juice. Rind of 2 lemons. 1 gill lemon juice. 1 pt. syrup for ices. Rind of 2 oranges. 2 whites of eggs. Wipe 2 oranges and 2 lemons, peel the rind off them very thinly and put it into a basin. Make the syrup according to directions in Recipe 2178, pour it boiling hot over the rind, cover the basin and stand until cold. Then add the fruit juice in the above proportion, and strain all through muslin. Put this mixture into the freezing pot, and, when it is half frozen, mix in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Continue the freezing until the ice is sufficiently stifl for serving. Note.—Either orange or lemon juice may be used separately, but the above makes a nice com- bination. 2189. Pine-apple Water Ice (Glace d’Ananas) 1 tinned pine-apple. I Yellow colouring. Syrup for ices. | Lemon juice. Vanilla. Chop the pine-apple, pound it in a mortar with a little of the syrup from the tin, and rub it through a fine sieve. To \ pint of this puree add \ pint syrup for ices (Recipe 2178) and the strained juice of 1 lemon. Colour with a very little yellow colour- ing, and flavour with vanilla or a little liqueur. When cold, put into the freezing pot and freeze until stiff enough to pile up in ice cups. Note.—A little liqueur may be added if wished. 2190. Raspberry and Red-currant Water Ice (Glace aux Framboises et aux Groseilles) l pt. raspberry and red- I \ pt. syrup for ices, currant puree. ] Juice of 1 lemon. Take equal quantities of carefully picked rasp, berries and red currants. Crush them in a basin with a silver fork, and then rub them through a hair sieve. Add to this puree an equal quantity of syrup for ices, and strained lemon juice in the above proportion. Allow the mixture to be- come quite cold, and then freeze. 2191. Red-currant Water Ice (Glace aux Groseilles) 1 pt. red-currant juice. I 2 whites of eggs. 1 pt. syrup for ices. | Extract the juice from some red currants in the same way as directed for Raspberry Jam (Recipe 2152). Measure the juice, and allow syrup for ices (Recipe 2178) and whites of eggs in the above pro- portion. Put the fruit juice and syrup into the freezing pot and half freeze them, then add the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and freeze again until sufficiently hard. Note.—This ice is very good served with a little whipped and frozen cream on the top. 2192. Strawberry Water Ice (Glace aux Fraises) | pt. strawberry puree. | pt. syrup for ices. Juice of 1 lemon. 2 whites of eggs. A few drops of car- mine. Choose sound ripe strawberries, pick them care- fully, and rub them through a hair sieve. Make the syrup according to directions in Recipe 2178, add it to the fruit puree in the above proportion, along with the strained lemon juice and enough carmine to make all a pretty pink colour. When quite cold, freeze in the usual way. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stifl froth, and stir them into the mixture when it is half frozen, then continue the freezing until the ice is sufficiently stifl for serving. 2193. Tutti-Frutti—Mixed Fruit Ice (Tutti- Frutti Glaces) 1 pt. orange or lemon i | lb. mixed fruit. Sugar, water ice. | 1 table-sp. liqueur. Take any kind of fruit, fresh, tinned, or glace, and cut it into dice. Sprinkle it with sugar and liqueur, and let it stand a short time. Then stir it into half-frozen water ice, and continue the freez- ing until sufficiently firm. 2. CREAM ICES Cream ices, or so-called cream ices, can be made in diflerent ways, according to the degree of rich- ness required, and the amount of cream that can be afforded. The best cream ices are made of pure cream ■with the necessary flavouring or fruit added to it. Very good ones can also be made with equal parts of custard and cream, with flavouring added. Plainer ices are made without cream, a custard being used in its place, and plainer still with con- densed milk thickened with a little cornflour, and flavoured to taste. 2 H