642 SERVIETTE FOLDING Although the fancy folding of serviettes is not much in vogue at present, custom rather demanding that they be folded very simply and laid on the table or plate, or, if for family use, slipped into a serviette ring ; tastes diifer in this respect and fashions alter quickly, so that the instructions here given for folding a few effective designs may come in useful, and serve at times to improve tve appearance of a table. Not more than one or two designs should be used at the same time; if a low style of folding is used at the sides of the table, something standing a little higher may be put at the two ends, but anything more elaborate would be quite out of place on the present-day dinner table. Serviettes for folding must be fresh and clean, slightly starched and very well ironed. For some designs a perfectly square serviette is required, for others it will not matter if it is somewhat oblong. Again, some designs demand that the serviette be folded in three, while others require its being folded in four ; this folding must be done in the ironing and not altered afterwards. When one is not very sure how a certain design is executed, it is better to practise first on a piece of paper, as the serviette itself will never look well if it has been fumbled about. The folding must be very exact and each fold well pressed down as it is made, or the final appearance will be slovenly. Besides designs for table serviettes the following instructions include two or three different styles of folding plate doyleys and also serviettes for holding hot rolls, scones, &c. The instructions have been given as clearly as possible, and it is hoped that by following them and the diagrams closely, the results will be satisfactory. THE POCKET.—Have the serviette folded in four, or in three only if it is a small one. Double it in order to mark the centre and open out. Now take hold of point A, Fig. 1, and fold it downwards by the dotted line B, and so that the upper edge of the serviette lies parallel with the centre mark. Do the same with point C, folding it downwards by dotted line D. The serviette should now have the appearance of Fig. 2. Turn the serviette right over from left to right and roll up the two ends E and F, Fig. 3, until they reach the fold G, Fig. 4. Turn over again, from left to right, take hold of the rolled portion at point H, Fig. 5, and double it upwards by dotted line to point J, do the same, with point I, doubling it also up to point J, Fig. 6. Then turn over and the serviette should appear as in finished design. The bread or roll may be put into the pocket.