320 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD a few small pieces of butter, and brown in the oven or under the grill. Note.—If liked, a ragoilt of mushrooms may be served in the centre (Recipe 516). Preserved arti- choke bottoms can be used for this. If they are large, six will be sufficient. Trim them a little smaller with a round cutter, and use the trimmings to mix with the yolks of eggs. Probable cost, 2s. 1348. Eggs a l’Aurore (CEufs a l’Aurore) 4 hard-boiled eggs. J pt. white or bechamel sauce. A little butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Salt. Pepper. 4 table - sps. grated cheese. 2 table - sps. tomato sauce. pinch of nutmeg. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and spread them on the cut side with some of the potato mixture. Make them as much as possible the size and shape of the original egg- Then brush the pieces over with beaten egg and toss them in fine white bread-crumbs with which a little parsley has been mixed. When all are ready, fry them in boiling fat (see p. 248) to a pretty brown colour. Dish the eggs on a border of cooked spinach, and pour tomato or any other suitable sauce round. Probable cost, Is. DISHES WITH HARD-BOILED EGGS II. Cold Shell the eggs and cut them in halves crosswise. Remove the yolks, and cut a small piece off the whites to make them stand like little cups. Put three of the yolks into a basin with the trimmings of white, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, the chopped parsley, and a good spoonful of the white sauce. Season with pepper and salt, and work all together with a wooden spoon until smooth and thoroughly blended. Fill the little white cups with this mixture, pile it high in the centre, and smooth over like a dome. Now add half the grated cheese to the remainder of the white sauce (this sauce should be of a good thick consistency), put the mixture at the foot of a fireproof dish, and stand the prepared eggs in it. Sprinkle with the remainder of the cheese and a little melted butter, and brown quickly in a hot oven. When ready, sprinkle with the remaining yolk of egg, put through a sieve, and make a band round the dish with a little hot tomato sauce. Probable cost, Is. 1349. Eggs a la FermISre 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. 2 onions (Spanish). 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. I pt. milk. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Skin and scald the onions, then dry them and slice them very thinly. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, put in the sliced onion, and fry it for a few minutes, but without browning. Now mix the flour with a little milk, and add it to the onion with the rest of the milk, pepper, and salt. Stir until boiling, and then simmer slowly until the onion is tender, stirring frequently. The mixture should be soft and thick. Turn it on to a hot dish, sprinkle with the chopped parsley, and serve the hard- boiled eggs very hot, and cut in quarters on the top. Note.—A little cream and less milk may be used if liked. Probable cost, 8d. 1350. Eggs 4 hard-boiled eggs. | lb. cooked potatoes. 1 egg. 2 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. la Parmentier 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Egg and bread-crumbs,. Cooked spinach. Tomato sauce. Sieve the potatoes and beat them up with the egg and cheese, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a 1351. Sardine Eggs 4 hard-boiled eggs. 2 oz. butter. 2 or 3 drops vinegar. Cayenne pepper. 1 dessert-sp. sardine paste. Salad. Small biscuits. Cut the eggs in halves across, remove the yolks, and cut a small piece off the white so that the pieces stand like little cups. Put the yolks into a mortar or strong basin with the butter, sardine paste, and seasoning, pound well, and then rub through a sieve. Spread the biscuits with some of the mixture, and fill up the egg-cups with the remainder, piling it high in the centre. Serve very cold, and garnish with cress or other small salad. Tinned sardines 'with the bone and skin removed may be used instead of the sardine paste. Notes.—This dish wall look better if the mixture is put into a forcing bag and forced into the eggs, a little being used to garnish round the sides of the biscuits. There are many varieties of this dish, as any savoury paste may be used instead of sardine flavouring. The decoration may also be varied— small pieces of pickle, ham, beetroot, or truffle cut in fancy shapes will help to give a little colour, while chopped aspic or a little fresh green salad instead of the little biscuits may serve as a bed upon which to dish the eggs. Probable cost, 10d. 1352. Anchovy Eggs (CEufs Farcis aux Anchois) Prepare in the same way as Sardine Eggs, using 1 tea-spoonful anchovy paste and a little anchovy essence instead of the sardine paste; or fillets of anchovy may be used instead of the anchovy paste. 1353. Cheese Eggs (CEufs au Fromage) Prepare in the same way as Sardine Eggs, adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls grated Parmesan instead of the sardine paste. A little made mustard should also be used to season.