202 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD BEEF Diagram showing mode of cutting up Beef in England 10. Fore Ribs. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Aitchbone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse Buttock. 6. Veiny parts. 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 9. Shin. 11. Middle Ribs. 12. Chuck Ribs. 13. Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek. Diagram showing mode of cutting up Beef in Scotland 1. Buttock or Rump. 2. Heuk bone. 3. Sirloin. 4. Spare ribs and ribs. 5 and 6. Large and small runners. 7. Round. 8. Thick Flank. 9. Thin Flank. 10. Small Round. 11. Hough or Shin or Leg. 12. Nine holes. 13. Brisket. 14. Shoulder. 15. Neck and Cheek. 16. Clod or Sticking Piece. The Sirloin.—This is the best part for roasting, but it is somewhat expensive. It is usually divided into three pieces varying in weight accord- ing to the size of the animal. The middle cut is considered the best, as it has the largest amount of undercut. The piece next the ribs has very little undercut, and the one next the rump is a joint difficult to carve, as it has a piece of bone on one side. The sirloins from both sides of the animal, not cut asunder, form what is called the baron of beef, corresponding to the saddle in mutton. This is a joint rarely seen nowadays, but was famous at banquets in the days of our ancestors. The Fillet or undercut of the sirloin is the most tender part for entrees or fillets of beef. Ribs.—The cuts from the ribs are also good for roasting, those nearest the sirloin being the best. Various sizes of joints can be cut according to special requirements. It is more economical to have the bone removed and used for soup and the meat itself rolled. One or two ribs treated in this way make a neat little roast for a small family. When a large cut of the ribs is ordered and roasted whole, it is better to have the thin end cut off and used for a separate dish, otherwise it becomes overcooked before the thicker part is ready. The piece of ribs next the shoulder is better stewed or braised than roasted. The Rump.—This is divided into three parts— the middle, the silver-side, and the chump end. The middle is an excellent piece of fleshy meat for any purpose. Some of the best steaks are cut from this part; it is also a first-rate cut for pies, for rolled beef, or for a tender stew. The chump end is also good for stewing. Buttock or Round.—This is another very fleshy piece of meat with little bone. It is one of the best pieces for braising or boiling, and is often salted. It can also be roasted, but, although economical, it is not so fine in flavour as the ribs or sirloin. The Top-side and the Silver-side are both cut from the round. Aitch Bone, or Edge Bone.—This is a cheap piece of meat, but as it contains a large proportion of bone and wastes very much in cooking, it is not really economical. It is an awkwardly shaped joint and very difficult to carve. It is generally boiled and sometimes salted. Brisket.—This is also sold at a low price, and is used principally for boiling or stewing. It is rather fat, but is excellent when salted and boiled and then served cold. Flank.—The thick flank is one of the most economical parts to buy, as it contains no bone and very little fat. Suitable for braising, stewing, and boiling. The thin flank contains much more fat, and is best salted, boiled, and eaten cold. The Clod and Sticking Piece are both somewhat coarse and only suitable for soup or cheap stews. Shin or Hough.—This is also coarse-grained and very gelatinous. It is excellent for stock and soup. The top part will also make an economical stew if slowly and carefully cooked. Midriff.—A thin fleshy piece which runs across the middle of the animal. It is rich in flavour., and is very good for stews or beef-steak pudding. Cheek.—Only suitable for stews and for making soup. As it contains so much bone it is not really economical. Cow Heel is very gelatinous, and is used princi- pally for making jelly, or, along with meat, as a foundation for soups. It can also be carefully boiled or stewed and then eaten with a good and piquant sauce. Tail.—This is somewhat expensive. It is used for making soups, and can also be stewed or braised. Heart.—This is rather coarse and very indiges- tible, but it can be made palatable by being stuffed and very carefully roasted or braised. Tongue is usually salted and then boiled and served cold, or served hot with a good sauce, or cut in slices for an entree. Tripe.—The inner lining of the stomach. It is usually sold partially cooked, although in Scot*