173 VEGETABLES AND SALADS 618. Haricot Bean Pur6e (Puree de Haricots Blancs) J lb. cooked haricots. I 1 or 2 oz. butter or drip- | pt. milk. I ping. Seasoning. Prepare and cook the haricot beans as directed in Recipe 613. After draining return them to a saucepan with the milk and let them cook again until soft and broken. Rub as much as possible through a wire sieve, then reheat, adding the butter or dripping and seasoning to taste. More milk or a little cream may also be added if a softer puree is desired. Serve very hot in a vegetable dish or as a garnish for other dishes. Note.—Light stock may be used instead of the milk. 619. Haricot Bean Rissoles l lb. cooked haricot beans. A little flour. 1 oz. dripping or butter. 1 egg. Pepper and salt. Bread-crumbs. Rub the beans through a wire sieve, and add to them the butter or dripping, seasoning, and enough beaten egg to bind all together. Allow the mixture to set, then form it into balls with the aid of a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb these, and fry them in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve the rissoles hot garnished with parsley. 620. Haricot Bean Savoury 1 cupful cooked haricots. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Pepper and salt. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. Croutons of fried bread. Have the beans cooked until tender and the skins removed if possible. Heat the butter and cream in a saucepan, put in the beans, sprinkling them with the cheese, parsley, and seasoning. Toss oveB the fire until thoroughly hot, then add the yolk of egg beaten up with a table-spoonful of water, shake the contents of the saucepan a minute or two longer and then serve at once in a pretty china dish. Garnish with small croutons of fried bread. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 621. Haricot Bean Mould \ lb. cooked haricot beans. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. 1 egg. 1 gill tomato sauce. Rub some well-cooked haricot beans through a wire sieve and put them into a basin. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Add the butter or dripping melted and the egg well beaten, and mix all together. Grease a plain tin or basin, coat it inside with the browned crumbs, pour in the haricot bean mixture and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Turn out and serve with tomato or any other suitable sauce poured round. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. Lima or Butter Beans Prepare and cook in the same way as haricot beans. They do not require such long soaking nor cooking. Lentils (Lentilles) These are more frequently served in the form of soup than in any other way, but they make an ex- cellent vegetable none the less, and it is only a pity that they are not more frequently served as such. The lentil is one of the most nourishing of foods and is more easily digested than either peas or beans. It is one of the best substitutes for butcher’s meat and figures largely in the diet of vegetarians. It should be eaten along with some starchy food, such as bread, potatoes, or rice, and fat in some form or other should always be supplied. A green vegetable or salad is a good accompaniment to a dish of lentils. The red or Egyptian lentil is the kind most usually sold, but we have also the purplish green or German lentil, which is excellent for stewing; it is better flavoured and a little more expensive than the former. Lentils always require very careful washing and picking, and if time permits they should be soaked for some time before cooking, although this is not so necessary as for peas and beans. 622. Stewed Lentils \ lb. lentils. 1 pt. cold water. 1 small onion. 2 or 3 cloves. A bunch of herbs. 1 table-sp. butter or fat. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Either the red or green lentils may be used. Wash them very carefully in several waters, and if time permits allow them to soak for several hours in cold water to cover them. Then pour off the water and put the lentils into a saucepan with 1 pint fresh cold water, a small onion stuck with cloves, and a bunch of herbs. Cover the sauce- pan and allow the lentils to cook slowly until they are tender, from 1| to 2 hours. More water may require to be added from time to time, but no more than is necessary to cook them should be used, and by the time the lentils are ready this should all be absorbed. A very good way of cooking lentils i3 in a double saucepan or in a covered jar or saucepan in the oven, but longer time must be allowed. When the lentils are ready, remove the onion and herbs, mix in the butter or other fat, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Serve very hot garnished with sippets of toast, or with a border of rice or potatoes round. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 3d. 623. Baked Lentils Cook and prepare the lentils as in last recipe, then put them in a buttered dish with a sprinkling of bread-crumbs or grated cheese on the top. Lay on a few small pieces of butter and bake in tho oven until nicely browned. 624. Curried Lentils 2 tea-cupfuls cooked lentils. 1 table-sp. butter or fat. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. curry powder-. 2 table-sps. chopped apple. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Salt, pepper. 2 table-sps. stock or gravy. Boiled rice. Cook the lentils as directed in Recipe 622, and drain off any remaining water. Melt the fat in a