COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 580 paste (Recipe 2851). Smooth over with a wetted knife, glaze with the yolk of an egg, and then make a golden brown colour in a hot oven. Have ready some split almonds dried and lightly browned; stick them into the cake in even rows, put a band of white or silver paper round, and tie it on with a pretty coloured ribbon. and well risen, then cut in slices, and serve hot. buttered. Note.—This cake is not so good eaten cold, but if not required at once, it may be toasted and buttered hot before serving. Time to bake, 4 to £ hour. Probable cost, 9d. 2789. Holiday Cake 1 lb. flour. £ lb. butter. I lb. currants. £ lb. mixed peel. I lb. sultanas. £ lb. Demerara sugar. 2 tea-sps. mixed spice. ! pint stout. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 4 eggs. First prepare the fruit carefully, and mix it with a little of the flour. Then put the rest of the flour into a large basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the fruit and other dry ingredients except the soda, mix all together, and make a well in the centre. Heat the stout in a small saucepan and add the soda to it. Mix quickly, and while still frothy pour it into the centre of the dry ingredients. Add also the eggs well beaten, and beat all together for 15 minutes. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a slow oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—This cake if iced will make a very good Christmas or birthday cake. It is excellent for taking to the country or seaside, as it does not readily become dry. Time to bake, about 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. 10 d. 2790. Invalid Cake 3 oz. flour. 2 eggs. 2 oz. castor sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 oz. butter. £ lemon rind grated. Cream the butter, sieve the sugar on the top of it, and mix the two together. Then add one egg and half the flour, sieved, and beat well for a few minutes. Add the second egg and the remainder of the flour, and beat again until very light. Add the lemon rind and the baking powder at the last, pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and cooked through. Or, the mixture may be baked in small patty pans that have been greased and dusted out with flour and sugar ; 10 or 15 minutes will he sufficient to cook them. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 6d. 2791. Johnny Cake \ lb. Indian corn meal. i lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. | pt. sweet milk. £ lb. castor sugar. 3 tea-sps. baking powder. 3 eggs. Sieve the meal, flour, sugar, and baking pov'der into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Make a well in the centre. Beat up the eggs in a separate basin, and add the milk to them. Pour this into the centre of the dry ingredients, and mix from the centre outwards until all the flour, &c., is gathered in. Beat quickly for a few minutes, and pour the mixture into a well-greased Yorkshire pudding tin. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned 2792. Jubilee Cake 10 oz. butter. 10 oz. sugar. 14 oz. flour. \ lb. candied peel. | lb. glace cherries. A few drops of vanilla essence. £ lb. sultanas. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 6 eggs. Almond Paste.—£ lb. ground almonds, £ lb. castor sugar, £ lb. icing sugar, 1 tab.-sp. brandy, and 1 or 2 whites of eggs. White Glace Icing.—Recipe 2838. Decorations.—2 oz. shred and browned almonds, some red jam, and a few pistachio nuts. Cream the butter, add the sugar and then the eggs and flour by degrees, beating well. Prepare the fruit, mix it with a little of the flour, and stir it in lightly at the last with the flavouring. Pour the mixture into a well-lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, lift the cake on to a sieve, and let it cool. Prepare the almond paste as directed in Recipe 2851, put a nice smooth layer on the top of the cake, and set it aside for several hours to become quite dry. Then coat the top with a little white glace icing. Coat the sides of the cake with some red jam, and then with a layer of shredded almonds and pistachio nuts, or with browned cocoanut and some cocoanut coloured pink with cochineal. The top of the cake may be further decorated with some pieces of preserved fruits, or with some of the icing put through a forcing bag, and little silver balls. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 45. to 5s. 2793. Kugelhoff £ lb. flour. 3 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. £ oz. yeast. 1 tea-sp. salt. 2or 3 oz. Valencia raisins 2 eggs. A little warm milk. Sieve the flour, then take a quarter of it and put it into a warm basin. Make a well in the centre and put in the yeast. Add enough warm milk to melt it, mixing them together with the fingers. When smooth, mix in the rest of the flour, gradually using enough warm milk to form a soft dough. Cover the basin and set this dough to rise in a warm place from £ to f of an hour. When well risen, add the two eggs one at a time, and if too stiS add a little more milk. Mix well, then work in the butter, softened but not melted, the raisins (stoned), sugar, and salt, and mix again. Have ready a well- greased border mould, decorated at the top with a few pieces of shred almonds, half fill it with the mixture, and set to rise again until the mixture fills the mould, perhaps 1 hour. Then place the cake in a hot oven for a few minutes, and when it begins to brown, moderate the heat, and cook until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 40 to 50 minutes. Probable cost, 10d. to Is.