COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 630 Garlic is more used abroad than in this country. For English tastes sufficient flavour is generally obtained by rubbing the dish or saucepan to be used with a cut clove of garlic. Horse-radish (raifort).—This is not really a herb, but for convenience’ sake it is here classed as such. It is a long edible root, which is used principally as a condiment. It is very stimulating and has a strong acrid taste, strongly resembling mustard. It can either be grated and made into a sauce, or scraped into shavings and used as a garnish. It is a favourite accompaniment to roast beef. Marjoram (marjolaine).—A small quantity of sweet marjoram finely minced is a favourite in- gredient in different forcemeats, while a sprig of the herb generally finds a place in the bouquet garni, or bunch of herbs. It has a very pleasant and aromatio flavour, and can be used either fresh or dried. Mint (menthe).—This is used principally for making the sauce of the same name. A spray of mint is also used in the cooking of green peas and new potatoes, while it is customary to serve dried and powdered mint with pea soup. Nasturtiums (capucines).—The flowers and leaves of this pretty plant can be used raw in salads, and also in sandwiches. The flowers form a dainty garnish and add a touch of colour to a green salad. The young seeds are sometimes pickled, when they resemble capers; they also act as a preservative in other pickles. Parsley (persil).—One of the most valuable of herbs, as it can be used both for flavouring and for garnishing. It can be kept fresh for some days if the stalks are placed in a jar of cold water, and the water changed every day. Peppermint.—A herbaceous plant of the mint family, which grows largely in this country. It is readily known by its strong aromatic odour and pungent taste. A liquor distilled from the plant is much used in the flavouring of sweetmeats and cordials. Sage (sauge).—This belongs to the same family as mint. It is used principally for flavouring the stuffing for pork, duck, and goose. Savoury (sarriette).—A most important aromatio herb, used principally for flavouring different vege- tables, soups, and sauces. There are two kinds, the summer and the winter savoury, and they can be used both fresh and dried. Shallot (echalote).—A small member of the onion family, resembling garlic in form, but much more delicate in flavour. It is very useful in cookery, when a mild flavour of onion is desired. Tarragon (estragon).—A very useful herb both for flavouring and decorative purposes. It is a favourite ingredient in salads and sauces, and the pretty shape of the leaf lends itself admirably for garnishing various cold dishes. Vinegar and mus- tard flavoured with tarragon are much esteemed. Tarragon is cultivated more in France than in this country. Thyme (thym) along with marjoram forms one of the principal ingredients of a bunch of herbs. It is a favourite flavouring and one that is easily procured. There are two different kinds, the common thyme and lemon thyme ; the latter must be used very sparingly, as it has a very pronounced taste. SPICES, &c. The term spice is applied to certain condiments which have a hot pungent flavour. They are derived from the fruit, the seed, the bark or the root of various plants, and are used to impart flavour and improve the taste of various dishes. The following are among the best known spices: Allspice (piment).—Made from the berry of the pimento, a small tree of the myrtle order, which grows in South America and the West Inches. It has an agreeable and aromatic taste, and combines the flavour of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, hence the name. It is also known as pimento and Jamaica pepper. Aniseed (anis).—The seed, or rather fruit, of the anise plant, which is cultivated in Europe and elsewhere. It is very aromatic, and is used prin- cipally in confectionery and in the flavouring of cordials and liqueurs. Capsicums (piment).—The name given to an order of plants, of which there are several different kinds. They are natives of tropical climates, and are also cultivated in this country under glass. The fruit consists of a pod, which varies in shape, some being much larger than others. When ripe they are generally bright red and glossy, although there are others of a yellowish green colour. The unripe green pods are often pickled. The ripe pods are imported into this country as capsicums and chillies, from which are made both chilli vinegar and cayenne pepper. Caraways (carvi).—The seeds or fruit of a plant belonging to the parsley family, and with a root which resembles the carrot in form. The caraway plant grows abundantly in some parts of Europe, and is also cultivated to some extent in this country. The seeds are very aromatic and are used for flavouring purposes, both whole and in a ground form. Cassia (casse).—The prepared bark of an aromatic tree. It closely resembles cinnamon in taste and smell; but it is thicker and not nearly so delicate in flavour. When ground it is difficult to distin- guish it from the true cinnamon. Our chief sup- plies come from China. The cassia buds, which look like cloves, are also valuable for their aromatic properties, and are used for flavouring cordials and confectionery. Cinnamon (cannelle).—The dried inner bark of a small evergreen tree belonging to the laurel family. The finest quality comes from Ceylon. It should be of a light yellowish brown colour, thin, smooth, and closely rolled. It is used in cookery on account of its pleasant aromatic taste and fragrant odour. It can also be obtained in a ground form. The oil obtained from cinnamon is used in the preparation of some liqueurs, while essence of cinnamon is taken medicinally as a stimulant, and a cure for colds. Cloves (girofle).—These are the unopened and dried flower buds of a plant belonging to the myrtle order, which grows in the Moluccas and other hot and moist climates. When the buds are gathered they are of a reddish colour, but they become dark brown by being dried, either artificially or in the sun. In appearance they are very like the head of a nail, and are about an inch in length. They have a powerful and fragrant odour, and in cookery