VEGETABLES AND SALADS 171 the oven, undo it carefully and place it on a hot dish. Pour over it some good sauce and serve at once. Note.—The above stuffing may be varied to suit individual taste; any savoury mixture may be used. Time to bake, J to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 607. Vegetable Marrow, Stuffed, 2 1 small vegetable marrow. 3 table-sps. bread-cnimbs. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 hard-boiled egg. lyolkofegg. Salt,pepper. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 oz. sweet almonds. A pinch of nutmeg. Wash and peel the marrow. Cut it in two pieces from end to end and scoop out all the seeds and soft part from the centre. Put these pieces into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, allow them to boil for 2 or 3 minutes, and drain. Then prepare the stuffing. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, boil the milk, pour it over them and let them soak a few minutes. Blanch and chop the almonds, and chop the hard-boiled egg. Add these to the soaked bread-crumbs with the grated cheese and seasoning to taste. Mix well and add the yolk of egg to bind all together. Place the two pieces of marrow on a greased fire- proof dish with the hollow sides uppermost and nil them with this stuffing. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs or a little grated cheese on the top, cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven until tender. Serve hot in the same dish. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. imported to this country, but not in any large quan- tities. There are several different kinds of yams, but the white are generally regarded as the best. They can be cooked according to almost any of the directions given for cooking potatoes, and will bo found both nutritious and palatable. PART II DRIED AND PRESERVED VEGETABLES 609. Butter Beans with Apple Sauce £ lb. butter beans. 1 pt. boiling water. 1 small onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Pepper. Salt. Hot buttered toast. Apple sauce. Wash the beans and soak them overnight in cold water. Next day pour away the water and put the beans into a saucepan with the boiling water, a bunch of herbs, and a small onion. Allow them to cook slowly until tender, about 3 hours. Then strain, reserving the liquid. Now melt the butter in the saucepan, stir in the flour, pom on the liquid and stir until boiling. Return the beans, keeping back the bunch of herbs, season to taste, and simmer a few minutes. Serve the beans on neat pieces of hot buttered toast and hand apple sauce separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. Watercress (Cresson) Watercress is one of the most wholesome of ora salad plants and a favourite with most people. It is rich in mineral salts, cooling to the system and an aid to digestion. There are two different kinds, the brown or bronze coloured and the green ; the former is considered the finer of the two. It requires very careful washing and picking and must be used very fresh. Although generally served raw, watercress is very good when cooked, and when it can be had in abundance it makes a leasant change as a green vegetable. It can also e chopped and added to soup instead of parsley. 608. Stewed Watercress 1 lb. watercress. I 1 tea-sp. vinegar. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. | Sippets of toast. Wash and pick the watercress carefully. Scald it in boiling water for about 10 minutes, then drain and chop it finely. Put it into a saucepan with the butter and vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Stew slowly until tender and serve in a hot dish garnished with sippets of toast or crou- tons of fried bread. Note.—A little cream added to the mixture would be an improvement. Yams (Ignames) These are tubers resembling the potato or Jeru- salem artichoke, and they sometimes grow to a very large size. They grow in tropical climates and are also cultivated to some extent in France. They are Flageolets (Flageolets) These are the little green beans of French beans or kidney beans freed from their pods. They can be used both fresh and dried, but in this country they are more usually sold in a dried statp. They are more expensive than the white haricot beans, costing about 8d. per lb., but they make an excellent dish and help to give variety. 610. Flageolets au Beurre Wash some dried flageolets and let them soak in cold water overnight. Next day put them into a saucepan with fresh cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil and add an onion ard a small bunch of herbs. Sometimes a little bacon is added as well to give flavour. Allow the beans to cook until quite tender, adding more water if required, then drain and remove the onion, herbs, &c. Return the beans to the sauce- pan with a small piece of butter and toss them over the fire. Sprinkle them with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and serve them very hot. Note.—Fresh flageolets can be cooked in the same way as green peas, only longer time should be allowed and the mint must be omitted. Time to cook, from 2 to 3 hours. 611. Flageolets in Sauce Flageolets are also very good served in sauce. They must first be cooked until tender (see above) and then reheated, after draining, in any suitable sauce, such as parsley, egg, tomato, curry, &c.