COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 168 souffle dish and bake in & moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Truffles (Trufles) The truffle is a kind of fungus which grows in clusters at some distance below the surface of the ground, generally in the neighbourhood of trees, and in oak and chestnut forests in particular. Although truffles are to be found in England, they are not considered of much value; the best come from France and Italy, the French truffles from the districts of Perigueux and Carpentras being particularly famous. They are searched for with specially trained dogs or pigs, the perfume emitted by the truffles acting as a guide to the animals. There are several different kinds of truffle, the black, the white, and the red, but the black is the one best known and most valued in this country. They are only in perfec- tion when freshly gathered, and unfortunately the rich flavour and delicious perfume for which they are valued deteriorate considerably by importation, Truffles while those that are preserved in bottles have so little flavour that they are fit for little beyond merely decorative purposes. When fresh truffles are bought they must be well washed and brushed until quite free from all earth or sand and then peeled. The outer skin is of no value. They can then be trimmed to a uniform shape if necessary, but all pieces must be saved; if chopped they can be used for various pur- poses. Truffles are generally used for flavouring and garnishing different dishes, but they can also be served by themselves, only the price is so high (from 6s. to 10s. per pound) that they are quite a luxury and can only be indulged in by the very rich. One of the simplest ways of serving them is to wrap each truffle in buttered paper and to bake them in the oven—they will require about 1 hour; the papers should then be removed and the truffles wiped and served in a hot folded serviette. Or, they may be slowly stewed in champagne or other white wine with a careful flavouring of ham and herbs, then, when ready, lifted out of the liquid and served as above. Turnips (Navets) For cooking purposes there are two different kinds of turnip, the white turnip and the swede. The swede is not so sweet as the white turnip, and when old it becomes very hard and woody in fibre, but it is very useful for flavouring purposes. Perhaps the best turnip for serving as a vegetable is the French turnip, which is white and long in shape, but this is generally expensive and only obtainable in the big markets. As a food the turnip is not particularly valuable; it is composed largely of water, and contains very little nourishment, but it has an agreeable taste and pleasant flavour, and is by no means an expen- sive vegetable. Cut in pieces it is often boiled with meat and used as a garnish, it forms also a nice addition to many soups and stews. Served by itself the turnip is perhaps best mashed or made into a puree, unless young, when it can be boiled or steamed and served with egg, parsley, or any other suitable sauce. The green tops of the turnip can also be utilised, and if gathered young they make an excellent green vegetable. The very young leaves are sometimes served ra w as a salad. 592. Mashed Turnips Turnips. Butter. Seasoning. The .arger yellow turnip may be used for mashing. Wash and brush the required quantity in cold water. Then peel them as far as a yellow line, which lies a little way in from the skin: the out- side of the larger turnips is stringy, bitter, and indigestible. Cut the turnips in small pieces, care- fully removing any discoloured parts. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, add a little sugar, and allow them to boil gently until tender. When the pieces of turnip can be pierced easily with a skewer, drain off every drop of water in a colander, and then return them to the saucepan. Mash them with a fork until free from lumps and let them dry for a few minutes over the fire. Add a little butter or good beef dripping and season to taste with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a pinch of nutmeg. Serve piled up in a hot vegetable dish, marking up the sides with the back of a fork. Note.—A little cream added to the mashed turnip at the last will be found an improvement. Time to cook, | to 1 hour. 593. Turnips with Potatoes 2 tea-cupfuls cooked tur- nips. 2 tea-cupfuls cooked pota- toes. Seasoning. 1 to 2 oz. dripping or butter. 4 table-sps. hot milk. Fried croutons. Rub the potatoes and turnips through a wire sieve or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, add the sieved vegetables to it, and stir over the fire a few minutes, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. Then add the hot milk and beat the mixture until light and white-looking. Arrange it neatly in a hot dish and garnish with croutons of fried bread. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 594. White Turnips with Sauce (Navets & la Creme 6 or 8 white turnips. I 1 dessert-sp. chopped J pt. white sauce. | parsley. 1 tea-sp. sugar. First wash and brush the turnips, then put them into clean cold water and peel them, but not so thickly as the larger turnips. Cut them in quarters ot small pieces and put them in a saucepan with boiling water to cover them. Add the sugar, but no salt, as the latter tends to destroy the colour