330 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD chopped) to the yolks of eggs. Serve the omelet on a bed of boiled rice, and pour curry sauoe round. 1424. Fish Omelet (Omelette au Poisson) 2 oz. cooked fish. 2 eggs. 1 tea - sp. chopped Pepper and salt, parsley. 1 oz. butter. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), adding the fish, finely chopped, and the chopped parsley to the yolks of eggs. 1425. Ham Omelet (Omelette au Jambon) 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley 2 eggs. A little made mustard. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of pepper. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), adding the ham finely chopped to the yolks of eggs. 1426. Kidney Omelet (Omelette aUx Rognons) 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot \ oz. butter. Pepper. Salt. A plain omelet. Split the kidneys, and remove the skin and hard fat from the centre. Cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter, and when hot add the chopped onion, and fry a little. Then add the kidney and seasonings, put the lid on the pan, and cook slowly for 10 minutes. Make a plain omelet, and before folding put the kidney mixture in the centre. This omelet may be served with a little brown sauce or gravy poured round it. Make the Omelet according to directions given in Recipe 1412, using the above ingredients. When it is set in the pan, put the lobster mixture in the centre and iold the omelet over it, first from one side and then from the other, making the edges overlap in the middle. Slip carefully on to a very hot dish with a dish paper on it, and serve the omelet as quickly as possible. Note.—Tinned lobster may be used. 1429. Mushroom Omelet (Omelette aux Champignons) l lb. fresh mushrooms. 1 shallot. 1 tea - sp. parsley. chopped Salt. Pepper. | oz. butter. A plain or savoury omelet. Remove the skins and stalks from the mush- rooms, and let them lie in salt and water for 5 minutes. Then dry them thoroughly and cut them small. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and put in the mushrooms, shallot finely chopped, parsley, pepper, and salt. Cook these together about 5 minutes. Make a plain omelet according to Recipe 1412, and before folding it over place the mushroom mixture on one half. 1430. Nut Omelet 3 eggs. £ lb. shelled Brazil nuts. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1411), adding the nuts finely grated to the eggs. When the omelet is cooked, sprinkle a few ground nuts over the top and brown slightly. 1427. Lentil Omelet 1431. Oyster Omelet (Omelette aux Huitres) 2 table-sps. lentils. 1 gill stock. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. \ tea-sp. curry powder. 2 oz. butter. 3 or 4 eggs. Seasoning. Wash the lentils, and if time permits allow them to soak for an hour or two in cold water. Then put them into a small saucepan with the stock and onion, and stew them slowly until soft and reduced to a thick puree. Add half the butter, season with the curry powder, pepper, and salt, and beat the mixture until quite smooth. Make an omelet with the eggs and the remainder of the butter, and put the lentil puree in the centre of it before folding it over. Note.—The remains of stewed lentils may be used for this. 1428. Lobster Omelet (Omelette au Homard) Omelet. 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. ltea-sp. chopped parsley Salt. Pepper. Mixture. 3 oz. cooked lobster. 2 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning to taste. First Prepare the Mixture.—Break the cooked lobster into small pieces, removing all shell. Heat it thoroughly in a small saucepan with the white sauce, seasoning rather highly with salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Keep this warm whilst preparing the omelet. 1 doz. oysters. | oz. butter. \ oz. flour. | gill oyster liquor. A little cream. Seasoning. A plain omelet. Scald the oysters in their own liquor, then strain. Remove the gristle from them, and, if liked, the beards as well. Then break each one in about four pieces with a fork. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and oyster liquor, add the oysters to it with a little cream and seasoning, make the mixture very hot, but do not boil again. Prepare the omelet according to Recipe 1412, and put the above mixture in the centre of it before folding over. Serve very hot. 1432. Omelet with Potatoes (Omelette a la Parmentier) A plain or savoury 2 or 3 potatoes, omelet. Recipe 1411 A little butter, or 1412. Peel two or three potatoes and cut them in dice, making about 1 breakfast-cupful in all. Put these into a saucepan of cold water, bring them to the boil, and drain well. Then fry the potato dice in a little butter until they are cooked and lightly browned, season them with pepper and salt, and keep them warm. Make a plain or a savoury omelet, and fold the prepared potatoes in the centre of it.