542 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD into a wetted mould and set aside until cold. A little cream may be served with the jelly. Note.—Wine may be added if wished. 2581. Irish Moss Blancmange 1 oz. Irish moss. | Sugar to taste. 1 qt. milk. | Lemon rind. S. Prepare in the same way as Irish Moss Jelly, using milk instead of water, and lemon rind boiled with it instead of lemon juice. Note.—Wine may be added if liked. 2582. Milk Jelly 1 ox foot, or 1 calf’s foot. I 1 pt. milk. 1 bay-leaf. 2 oz. sugar. | Rind of £ lemon. Prepare and blanch the foot in the same way as for Calf’s Foot Jelly (Recipe 1969). Put the pieces into a jar with the other ingredients, and steam from 5 to 6 hours until the meat will slip easily off the bones. Strain, and set aside till cold. Remove any grease from the top, and it is ready to serve. Notes.—The pieces of foot may afterwards be rinsed and put into the stock pot, or they may be used for a dish of stewed cow heel. Gelatine may be used instead of the ox foot, 1 oz. being sufficient for the above quantity. Place it in a jar with the other ingredients, and stand in hot water until dissolved, stirring occasionally. Then strain. Time to cook, 5 to 6 hours. Probable cost. Id. 2583. Prune Jelly J lb. prunes. I 2 oz. sugar. | pt. water. 4 lemon. I £ oz. gelatine. Prepare and cook the prunes with the water, lemon, and sugar, as in Recipe 2099. Dissolve the gelatine in a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water or prune juice. Sieve the prunes with their juice into a basin, and strain in the gelatine. Mix well, pour into small moulds or cups that have been wet with cold water, and set aside to cool. Turn out when required, and serve with or without cream. Note.—Remains of cold cooked prunes may be used for this dish, but they must be re-heated or the gelatine would not mix properly with the sieved mixture. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. Other Invalid Puddings Besides the above recipes, many of the dishes given in the Pudding and Sweets sections of the book are suitable for invalids, such as the following : All the Simple Milk Puddings, Batter Pudding, Cabinet Pudding, Caramel Custard, Caramel Rice, Caramel Semolina, Apple Amber Pudding, Bird’s Nest Pudding, Bread-crumbland Marmalade Pudding, French Pancakes, Queen of Puddings, Swiss Apple Pudding, Apple Souffle, Banana Souffle, Orange Souffle, Semolina Souffle, Sweet Omelet, Apple Whips, Blancmange, Danish Fruit Jelly, Dutch Flummery, Devonshire Junket, Gooseberry Fool, Honeycomb Mould, Lemon or Orange Mould, Tapioca Custard Cream. Also most of the Jellies, Sponges, and Simple Creams, and Fruit Compotes, &c. PART V DRINKS AND MISCELLANEOUS INVALID DISHES 2584. Albumen or. Egg Water 1 white of egg. 1 gill of water. Mix the white of egg and water together without beating. Strain through muslin, and add sugar or salt. This is a very nutritive solution, which may be added to different drinks. 2585. Almond Milk 1 oz. sweet almonds. Orange-flower or rose 2 bitter almonds. water. \ pt. water. Blanch the almonds in order to remove the brown skin. Chop them finely on a board, and pound them in a mortar with a little rose or orange- flower water. Then put them into a jug with the water, cover and stand 12 hours, stirring occasion- ally. Strain, and add sugar if wished. This i3 used to dilute barley water and other drinks, and to give flavour. Time, 12 hours. Probable cost, 2d. 2586. Apple Water, 1 2 large apples. 3 or 4 lumps of sugar. Rind and juice of £ 1 pt. boiling water, lemon. Select juicy apples with a sharp flavour, and wash them well, but do not peel them. Cut them in thin slices, and put them into a jug. Add to them the sugar, and the thinly peeled rind and juice of \ a lemon. Have the water freshly boiling, and pour it over them. Cover, and stand till cold. Then strain, and it is ready for serving. Probable cost, 2d. 2587. Apple Water, 2 2 large apples. I Rind of J a lemon. 1 pt. cold water. I 1 oz. sugar. Wash the apples and cut them in thin slices without peeling them. Put them into a lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and thinly peeled rind of \ a lemon. Boil gently for an hour, until the fruit is soft. Then strain through muslin, and cover until cold. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, 2d. 2588. Barley Meal Gruel 1 dessert-sp. barley A small piece of butter. meal. Sugar, or salt. | pt. milk. Mix the milk very gradually with the meal, stir- ring until quite smooth. Take a small lined sauce- pan, rinse it out with cold water, and porn: the barley and milk into it. Stir constantly over the fire until boiling, and boil from 5 to 7 minutes. Season to taste with salt or sugar, and stir in a small piece of butter at the last. Serve very hot.