COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 296 1208. Leveret, Roasted A leveret is a hare in its first year. It is cooked in the same way as a roast hare, only it is not necessary to stuff it. It will require from 40 to 60 minutes to cook, and should be eerved with a good brown gravy and red-currant jelly. 1209. Saddle of Hare, Roasted (Rable de Lidvre, Rot!) When a hare is very large it is sometimes a good plan to remove the head, shoulders, and legs, to use these parts for soup or for jugging, and to make a roast of the saddle, or “ rable,” that is left. Prepare and stuff this in the same way’as for roast- ing, securing the stuffing well at the two ends. The flesh of the back may either be larded or have slices of fat bacon tied over it. Roast as above, being very particular about the basting. Serve with liver sauce, onion sauce, or simply the brown gravy and the usual accompaniments of roast hare. Forcemeat balls may be used as a garnish. This makes a neat little roast, and is much more attrac- tive-looking than a whole hare. Note.—This saddle of hare is also very good braised instead of roasted. Time to roast, 40 to 50 minutes. 1210. Jugged Hare, 1 (Civet de Lievre) 1 hare (medium sized). 2 onions. 6 cloves. | lb. fat bacon. A bunch of herbs. J lemon. 1 inch stick cinnamon. Stock or water. 2 oz. flour. 2 glasses port wine. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. Salt. Pepper. Forcemeat balls (see below). Skin and paunch the hare as directed on p. 291, and reserve the blood. Cut it in small neat joints, not larger than the size of an egg, and wipe the pieces with a cloth ; or, if preferred, they may be washed and well dried. Then coat them with some of the flour. Cut the bacon in dice, put it into a saucepan, and fry it a few minutes. Now put in the hare, the onions with the cloves stuck into them, the herbs, cinnamon, and lemon rind tied in muslin. Put the lid on the saucepan and cook slowly for 20 minutes, shaking the pan occa- sionally. Mix the remainder of the flour with a little stock, and add it to the saucepan with enough stock or water to cover the hare. Add also the juice of the \ lemon and 1 glass of port wine. Stir over the fire until the liquid reaches boiling point, and then turn the contents of the saucepan into a strong jar. Cover the jar closely and cook in a moderate oven until the hare is tender. It is safer to place the jar in a shallow tin, and to keep a little boiling water round it; or it may be steamed in a saucepan over the fire. The time will depend very much upon the age of the hare used. A few minutes before serving, remove the herbs, lemon rind and cinnamon, and add the other glass of port wine, the red-currant jelly, and strained blood. (This last may be omitted if it is objected to.) Cook a short time longer, but be careful the sauce does not boil after the blood is added, or it will curdle. Season to taste, and the hare is ready for serving. It may either be arranged neatly on a hot dish with the sauce poured over and gar- nished with forcemeat balls, or served in the pot in which it is cooked, if this is sufficiently orna- mental, with a serviette folded round it and the forcemeat balls added. Red-currant jelly may be served separately. Forcemeat Balls.—Make some forcemeat for hare according to Recipe 1269 (half the quantity will be sufficient), and form it into small balls, using a little flour. Fry these in boiling fat until brown, or bake them on a tin in the oven with a small quan- tity of dripping. Or, if preferred, the balls may be egged and bread-crumbed and then fried. Note.—1 lb. lean beef cut in inch square pieces may be used along with the hare if a larger dish is wanted. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. 1211. Jugged Hare, 2 (Civet de LISvre Chasseur) \ a hare. 4 to 6 oz. fat bacon. 1 to 1J doz. small white onions. 2 table-sps. flour. 2 oz. good dripping or butter. Seasoning. 1 or 2 glasses Burgundy. A few fresh mushrooms. Paunch the hare, reserving the blood, which is a very necessary ingredient of a “ civet.” Unless a very large dish is required, use only the inferior parts of the hare, and cut them in small pieces by chopping through the bones. Peel the onions and cut the bacon into small thick strips. (If the bacon is very salt, the pieces should be blanched before use.) Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the onions and bacon and saut6 them over the fire until lightly browned. Then lift them out, put in the pieces of hare, and brown them in the same fat. When coloured on all sides, sprinkle with the flour and brown that also. Now add the wine and enough water to cover, season with pepper, and salt if necessary : a little tomato may also be added if liked ; put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the hare is almost tender. When ready, lift out the pieces of hare, onions, and bacon into a basin and strain the sauce over them. Return all to the saucepan, add a few mushrooms cut in small pieces, and continue the simmering until both the hare and the mushrooms are suffi- ciently cooked. Then add the blood. Mix it first with a little of the sauce, strain it in beside the hare, mix well, and just give it one boil up. If overboiled it will curdle. Time to cook, from 3 to 4 hours. 1212. Hashed Hare Remains of cooked hare. 1 pt. stock or water. A small piece of ham. 1 onion. A small bunch of herbs. Pepper and salt. | oz. butter. J oz. flour. Sippets of toast. Remove the bones from the hare and cut the flesh into neat slices, put these on a plate, season them with pepper and salt, and set them aside. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan along with any trimmings, the water or stock, ham, and seasoning, Allow all this to simmer slowly for 1 hour, then strain. Now melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix until smooth, and then pour in the stock. Stir until boiling, and skim if necessary. Then put in the pieces of flesh and let them simmer slowly in the sauce about