9 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD should be a convenient height for working at. A stoneware or tiled sink is best, as it is the easiest to clean and keep in good order. The back of the sink, if it is not placed in a window, should be made of some material 'which will not spoil with the splashing of the water. If not already fitted with tiles, a sheet of zinc might be fitted up, or a sheet of “ Emdeca,” which is a kind of tin, enam- elled in imitation of tiles, and very clean and prac- tical. A plate rack in which plates can be drained should be fitted up above the sink, and this will avoid the necessity of drying them. The space underneath the sink might be fitted with one or two shelves, or a small cupboard for holding cleaning requisites. Then at the side of the sink, and this is very important, there should be a well-grooved board sloping towards the sink on which dishes, &c., can be laid to drain. If table space is scanty a flap table might also be fitted up at the side, where dishes, when they are dried, could be placed. The walls of the scullery should be fitted with shelves and as much as possible made of the available space. The shelves on which saucepans are placed should be sparred, as this allows the air to get inside them, and they are kept drier. If there is little room for shelving, a sauce- pan stand, which can be placed either in kitchen or scullery, is often found most useful. Every kitchen should be supplied with a pulley on which to dry kitchen towels, &c., unless these can be hung elsewhere; there should also be a roller with brackets on which to hang a roller towel. In the ordinary kitchen there is very little movable furniture required, and it should never Saucepan Stand be filled up with unnecessary articles. One of the most im- portant articles is the table, and this ought to be as large as is convenient—ample table room will simplify kitchen work considerably. When there is not much floor space available it is better to have it made with flaps, which can easily be put down when not in use. It should be made of plain un- painted wood, and ought to be of a convenient height to work at and very steady on its legs. A kitchen table is generally made oblong in shape, and preference should be given to one that has drawers at the end, as this will be found a distinct advantage. Sometimes, too, a narrow shelf is fitted underneath on which articles can be placed when cookiiig is being done, thus keeping the table itself more clear. A piece of white or light-coloured oilcloth, cut to fit the table, laid smoothly on the top, and held in position with small tacks, will save a great deal of unnecessary scrubbing, but care must be taken to lay nothing hot upon it. Where space allows, a smaller table will always be found useful—a smaller and lighter one which can be moved about, or even a collapsible one which can be put aside when necessary. A cheerful coloured tablecloth might also be supplied to cover one of the tables and give it a less forbidding appearance. In large kitchens where much cooking is done, it is very useful to have a table covered with zinc placed near the stove upon which the dishing up can be done. Kitchen chairs should be made of plain varnished wood, or the seats may be of strong rush, but not cane. The number will depend upon how many maids there are—there should be one for each, and one over. Then, if the kitchen is also the maids’ sitting-room, there ought to be one or two com- fortable chairs for resting in the evening. Strong wicker ones and the light-coloured Windsor arm-