SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET 521 PART I SAVOURY SANDWICHES 2441. Anchovy Sandwiches 1 tea-sp. anchovy paste. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Brown or white bread and butter. Chop the egg, mix it with the anchovy paste and butter, and rub all through a fine sieve. Mix well and season to taste. Spread some of this mixture between thin slices of brown or white bread and butter. Trim, and cut into small neat shapes. If any of the anchovy mixture is left over, it may be put into a forcing bag with a small rose pipe and a very little forced out on the top of each sand- wich. Serve garnished with parsley or small cress. Note.—Small milk biscuits may be used instead of the bread and butter. 2442. Beef Sandwiches Cold roast beef. ; A little chutney. White bread and butter. Cress, cucumber, or to- Made mustard. j mato. Cut the beef in small pieces, trimming off all skin and superfluous fat. Mix some butter with a little made mustard, and chutney cut in small pieces, adding extra salt if necessary. Spread some slices of white bread with this savoury butter, and lay thinly-sliced beef on half the number of slices. Put some thinly-sliced cucumber, or tomato, or some watercress leaves on the top, and cover with more bread. Press well together, and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Serve garnished with small sprigs of watercress. Note.—A little grated horse radish may be mixed with the butter, instead of the chutney. 2443. Minced Beef Sandwiches 3 or 4 table-sps.cold beef 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Salt. Pepper. A little made mustard. 1 dessert-sp. brown or tomato sauce. White bread and butter. Mince the meat finely, add to it the pickles and seasoning, and moisten with a little thick and well-flavoured sauce. Put a layer of this between slices of bread and butter, trim and cut into shapes. Note.—Different kinds of meat may be used in the same way, varying the flavouring accord- ing to the kind of meat used. Or, two different kinds of meat may be used together, such as ham and chicken, veal and tongue, &c. Mayonnaise, tomato, brown, curry, or any savoury sauce can be used to moisten the mixture. 2444. Spiced Beef Sandwiches Spiced beef. | White bread. Curry powder. Butter. | Seasoning. Flavour the butter with curry powder, and season with mustard and cayenne pepper, working all together on a plate. Spread slices of white bread with the mixture, and put small thin slices of spiced beef between each two. Trim and cut in shape. 2445. Bloater Sandwiches Cooked bloater. Cayenne. Lemon juice. Cream or white sauce. Bread and butter. Watercress. Remove all skin and bones from some cooked bloater, and chop it finely. Then pound it in a mortar or basin, adding enough white sauce, cream, or melted butter to make a paste. Season with cayenne, lemon juice, salt if necessary, and, if liked, a little anchovy essence. Spread this mixture between slices of brown or white bread and butter, enclosing with it a few carefully picked leaves of watercress. Trim neatly, cut into shapes, and serve garnished with sprigs of watercress. 2446. Caviar Sandwiches Russian caviar. I Butter. Lemon juice. Brown bread. I Cayenne. Prepare some thin slices of brown bread and butter. Sprinkle some caviar with a few drops of lemon juice, and add a good pinch of cayenne pepper. Spread a layer of caviar between two slices of the bread, press lightly together, trim, and cut into shapes. Serve garnished with little bunches of small cress and very thinly-sliced lemon. Note.—A little very thinly-sliced cucumber may be added to these sandwiches if liked. 2447. Cheese Sandwiches Cheese. I Seasoning. Butter. 1 Plain biscuits. 1,«Z Method.—Season butter with cayenne pepper and mustard, and spread it on some plain biscuits. Put a thin slice of Gruyere, Cheddar, or Dutch cheese on the top, and cover with another biscuit. 2nd Method.-—Season the butter as above, and mix into it an equal quantity of grated cheese, and spread a layer of this between two biscuits. A little thick cream may be added to the mixture. Notes.—Almost any kind of cheese may be used for making sandwiches, and the various kinds of cream cheeses are also very suitable. It is a nice way of using up small remains. A little salad may be served with these sandwiches. Bread and butter may be used instead of the biscuits.' Cheese sandwiches are a very good accompaniment to a green salad.