PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 365 is nicely browned. When slightly cooled, care- fully remove the mould, and let the pastry become quite cold on a sieve or wire draining stand. Whip up some double cream until quite thick, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of any flavouring that is liked. Put the cream into a forcing bag, and fill the cornucopias with it. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve on a fancy dish paper. Notes.—These may be decorated more fancifully with some pink royal icing put through a forcing bag with small pipe. Or some of the cream may be coloured pink, and used alternately with the white. A little jam may be put into the cases before the cream. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 1 \d. to 2d. each. 1561. Custard Tartlets \ pt. milk. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg- 1 dessert-sp. sugar Flavouring. Short crust. Make ten or twelve tartlet cases with short crust (see p. 362), and bake them until the pastry is set, but not brown. Meanwhile prepare the custard. Put the milk into a saucepan to heat. Beat up the eggs in a basin with the sugar and flavouring and pour the hot milk gradually on to them, stirring all the time, then strain. Re- move the dummies from the pastry cases, fill them up with the custard and return them to the oven until the custard is set and the pastry nicely browned. These tartlets may be served either hot or cold. Note.—A few ratafia or macaroon biscuit crumbs may be put into the cases before filling them up with the custard. Time to bake, about | hour in all. Probable cost, |d. each. 1562. Cream Rolls Make in the same way as cornucopias with cream (Recipe 1560), using small roll-shaped tins instead of the cornet moulds. 1563. Fanchonettes PuS pastry. 3 yolks of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. 1 tea-sp. vanilla essence. 1| gills milk. Meringue. 3 whites of eggs. Sugar and lemon juice. Make from ten to twelve tartlet cases with puff pastry and bake them to a golden brown colour. To prepare the mixture, put the sugar, yolks of eggs, milk, and vanilla into a small saucepan, and stir them very carefully over the fire until of the consistency of thick cream. When the pastry cases are ready, fill them with this mixture, place them on a tray, and allow them to cool gradually. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add a little sugar and a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread this on the fanchonettes, piling it rather high, dust lightly with sugar, and return them to a cool oven for a few minutes, heave till quite cold, and then decorate with some brightly coloured jelly. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. 1564. Fancy Pastries for Dessert or Tea (Petits FeuilletSs) A very pretty sweet can be made with puff pastry, rolled out, cut in different shapes, baked in the oven, and then decorated. The following are a few of the ways in which it can be made up, and various other shapes and forms can be invented according to fancy. (1) Roll the pastry about an eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it in pieces about three inches square. Fold over the four corners to the centre of each square, wetting the joins with a little cold water or white of egg to make them stick. Then cover the joins with a small round of pastry and bake. (2) Roll the pastry J inch in thickness and cut it in strips an inch wide and 3 or 4 inches long. Stand the strips on their side on the baking tin, giving them a twist in the middle and bake. They will spread out in width instead of in height in the baking, and are very light and crisp when baked. (3) Twist two strips of pastry together and bake them as before. (4) Cut some thin pastry into strips like ribbons and arrange them on the baking sheet in the form of a bow. Bake as before. (5) Or, the pastry may be cut in rings, stars, or various fancy shapes with cutters. To Decorate the above Pastry.—When the pastry is well baked and nicely brown, lift it from the oven and let it cool on a sieve or wire stand. Then either spread it with jam, or decorate with dots of jam or jelly in different colours, and sprinkle with desiccated cocoanut, or chopped almonds and chopped pistachio nuts. Instead of the jam a little royal icing may be forced out on the pastry through a forcing bag with a small fancy pipe at the end. Avoid using too much icing; the design should be as light looking as possible, and it may be in two colours. Allumettes Glacees.—Roll out some puff pastry very thinly into a strip from 4 to 5 inches in width. Take a little royal icing and mix with it a small quantity of ground almonds and a pinch of flour. Spread this thinly over the pastry and then cut in finger-shaped pieces, using a wetted knife. Sprinkle with sugaB and bake in a moderate oven. Petits Amours.—Cut small rounds about 2 inches in diameter from thinly-rolled puff pastry and lay them on a wetted baking sheet. Then cut the same number of slightly smaller rounds and stamp the centre out of them so as to form little rings. Wet the rounds of pastry with white of egg, and lay the rings on the top. Prick the centre of the pastry and then bake. When cold, fill the hollows in the centre with a little bright-coloured jelly. 1565. Nut Pastries (1) Roll out some puff or flaky pastry to \ inch in thickness, and cut it in pieces about 4 inches long by 1 inch wide. Lay these on a baking sheet and cook them in a good oven until brown and crisp. Then lift them out, and when cool brush them over with slightly beaten white of egg and sprinkle with chopped nuts. Return to the oven for two or three minutes to dry and brown the coating. (2) Roll out some puff or flaky pastry to rather