33r EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 1433. Rice Omelet 1 cupful cooked rice. i Seasoning. 1 cupful milk. 1 oz. butter. 3 eggs. I Curry sauce. Heat the cooked rice in the milk until it is soft and creamy without being too liquid. Add the eggs well beaten, and season to taste with pepper and salt. A little grated Parmesan may also be added if liked. Heat the butter in an omelet pan, turn in the rice mixture, and bake in the oven until firm to the touch and lightly browned. Then slip the omelet on to a hot dish. Serve with curry sauce poured round. 1434. Sardine Omelet (Omelette aux Sardines) 2 sardines. i 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. £ tea-sp. shrimp essence. | Pepper and salt. Remove the skin from the sardines, bone them, and pound the flesh in a mortar with a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence. Then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Now proceed as in Recipe 1412, adding the sardine paste to the yolks of eggs. Note.—Sardine paste, which can be bought in tins, may be used for this instead of whole sardines. 1435. Shrimp Omelette (Omelette aux Crevettes) 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp anchovy es- sence Pepper and salt. Mixture. £ cupful picked shrimps. £ cupful white sauce. Seasoning. First prepare the mixture. Put the shrimps into a small saucepan with the sauce, season to taste, and make thoroughly hot over the fire. Make a plain omelet with the other ingredients according to Recipe 1412, and adding the anchovy essence to the yolks of eggs. Before folding it over put the shrimp mixture in the centre. 1436. Sweetbread Omelet (Omelette au Rls de Veau) Take some cooked sweetbread, break it in small pieces, and reheat in some good creamy sauce, such as bechamel or supreme. Make a plain omelet (Recipe 1412) with four or five eggs, and put some of the sweetbread in the centre before folding it over. Serve on a hot dish with the remainder of the sweetbread as a garnish. 1437. Tomato Omelet (Omelette aux Tomates) 2 tomatoes. £oz. butter. 1 tea - sp. chopped shallot. Salt. Pepper. A plain omelet. Recipe 1412. Skin the tomatoes and cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot, and cook for a few minutes. Then add the tomato and seasoning, and simmer for about ten minutes. Make a plain omelet with a little parsley in it; when set, put some of the tomato mixture in the centre before folding over. Serve with the rest of the tomato round the dish. 1438. Omelet with Vegetables (Omelette a la Jardiniere) Take the remains of nicely cooked vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, cauliflower, green peas, French beans, asparagus, leeks, &c., cut them in small pieces, and warm them in a little good sauce. Then make either a plain or a savoury omelet, and before folding it over put 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of the vegetable mixture in the centre. Any re- maining vegetable may be used to garnish the dish. See p, 431. Sweet Omelets