THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 13 sinking to the bottom. Pour the mixture into a jar or tin and use as required. This will keep for quite a long time and will be found most useful. CLEANING OF UTENSILS Care of Saucepans.—Now that saucepans are used almost entirely on gas stoves and close ranges where there is no smoking from an open fire, there is no excuse for having the outside coated with soot or black grease, which comes off on everything that touches it. The handle and outside of the sauce- pan should receive the same attention as the inside. As soon as the saucepan is finished with, it should be filled with warm water and left soaking until it can be cleaned. Care must be taken not to pour cold water into a hot enamelled saucepan or there will be danger of cracking the lining; in fact it is always a risky thing to do if the pan is very hot. Saucepans should be cleaned as soon as possible after they are taken from the fire and never allowed to remain dirty overnight except in very special circum- stances. The method of cleaning will depend somewhat upon the kind of saucepan, but the rule that they must be made clean and free from taint of any kind applies to all. If the contents of a saucepan have become burnt, boil some hot water and soda in it before attempting to do the cleaning. No saucepan must be laid away before it is per- fectly dry unless it is placed where the air can reach the inside, as on a sparred shelf. New Saucepans should be filled with cold water and brought to the boil, then well washed and rinsed before using. How to Clean Iron Saucepans.—Wash them well in hot water and soda, scrubbing inside and out with a pot brush. Use a little sand, if necessary, to make them clean. The sand must be used almost dry or it will not be so effective. When clean, rinse thoroughly so as to get rid of any grit, and dry with a coarse cloth. Enamelled Saucepans.—Wash well in hot water and soda, and then apply a little Brooke’s soap or sapolio to take off any marks or discoloration. Salt or fine silver sand may also be used, or even crushed egg-shells are very good for whitening the enamel. Rinse thoroughly and dry with a cloth. Tin and Steel Saucepans.—dean in the same way as enamelled saucepans. Earthenware Saucepans.—Wash first in hot soapy water, then apply a little fine sand or sapolio, if necessary, to remove any marks. Rinse thoroughly and dry with a stout cloth. Copper Saucepans.—These require very special care as, if once neglected, they are apt to har- bour verdigris, which is very poisonous. For this reason the tinned linings should always be kept intact, and directly there are signs of wear and the copper begins to show through, the saucepans should be sent away to be re-tinned. Clean the inside of copper saucepans with a mixture of soft soap and Brooke’s soap, or soft soap and fine silver sand applied with a piece of flannel or soft cloth wrung out of warm water. For the outside use the skin of a lemon dipped in bath-brick dust, or salt and vinegar applied with a flannel. Rinse the saucepan well with hot water and dry quickly and thoroughly. The outside may be further polished by rubbing it with a little dry whitening. Aluminium Saucepans.—Wash well with hot soapy water, using a little silver sand if necessary to remove any discoloration or burnt matter. Rinse thoroughly first in hot and then in cold water and then dry with a soft cloth. Soda must on no account be used with aluminium ware, and patent cleaning mixtures should also be avoided. The outside may be polished occasionally with metal polish. The vessels should not be scraped, nor should the fight brown enamel which will form inside be disturbed, as it is not only quite harmless, but adds considerably to the fife of the articles. Omelet Pans.—Unless absolutely necessary these should not be washed. After use rub them well with a piece of imprinted paper and then wipe with a dry cloth. Washing will often cause the omelet to stick to the pan the next time it is used, unless a little fat is melted and well rubbed into it first. To Clean a Kettle.—A kettle must always be kept free from soot, otherwise it will take an unnecessary long time to boil, soot being a non-conductor of heat. A brown deposit, known as “ fur,” will very often form on the inside of a kettle owing to the hardness of the water. This may be prevented “ Octopus ’’ or Anti-Incrustator by placing a marble or “ octopus ” in the kettle, which, with the movement of the water as it boils, will keep rubbing against the bottom and sides of the kettle, and the deposit will have no chance of resting. If this deposit has been allowed to accumulate, it may be removed by filling the kettle with water and adding a good piece of washing soda or some strong ammonia. Bring this to the boil and boil slowly for some time. This will dissolve the “ fur,” which should be easily washed off with a cloth. Boil one or two fresh waters in the kettle before using the water for drinking purposes. Kitchen Knives and Forks.—Wipe these with a cloth wrung out of hot water to remove any grease, but do not allow them to lie in hot water, which would tend to loosen the handles. Then rub off any stains with a little Brooke’s soap or sapolio applied rather dry on a piece of flannel. Rinse off and dry with a knife cloth. It is not necessary to polish kitchen knives on a knife board; it only wears them unnecessarily. Baking Tins.—Wash well in very hot water with a little soda in it, using a strong brush and a little sand if necessary. Rinse well and dry with a coarse cloth. If a roasting tin has become very brown and is difficult to clean, let it soak in hot water and soda for an hour or two to soften the burnt substance. Kitchen Cloths.—At the end of the day all kitchen cloths which have been used and soiled should be