388 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD may be allowed to lie for \ hour in the water. Then dry the fish well and rub them over with a little melted butter or good dripping. Cook them quickly on a hanging grill in front of a good fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. They will require from 7 to 10 minutes, according to size. A little cold butter may be spread on the top of the kippers when serving. Or, the kippers may be fried instead of broiled, or cooked in a paper bag (see Paper-bag Cookery), or placed on a greased tin, covered with greased paper, and cooked in the oven. Note.—Kippered mackerel may be cooked in the same way, allowing rather longer time. 1688. Fried Kidneys and Bacon 3 sheep’s kidneys. £ tea-cupful stock. 6 slices of bacon. Seasoning. £ tea-sp. flour. Cut half a dozen neat slices of bacon, fry them until sufficiently cooked, and keep them warm over hot water. Have the kidneys split in two, and the skin and fat removed. Fry them in the fat left from the bacon, adding a little more if necessary. They will only require about 5 minutes on each side, as they should not be overcooked. When ready, place a piece of kidney on the top of each piece of bacon. Pour away most of the fat from the pan, and stir in the flour. Then add the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste, skim if necessary, and strain round the dish. 1689. Kidney Toast, 1 2 or 3 sheep’s kidneys. A small piece of butter. £ tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot. 2 table-sps. stock. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. Remove the skin and fat from the kidneys and chop them rather finely. Melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot and cook it 2 or 3 minutes without browning. Add the kidney and stir it over the fire until cooked, or for 4 or 5 minutes. Then sprinkle in the flour, season to taste, and moisten with about 2 table-spoonfuls good stock or gravy. Cook a minute or two longer, arrange the mixture neatly on a slice of hot buttered toast cut in pieces, sprinkle lightly with finely chopped parsley and serve very hot. Note.—The flour may be omitted and the yolk of an egg stirred into the mixture just before serv- ing. The shallot may be left out if objected to. for curry. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the curry powder and then the meat, rice, and hard- boiled egg. Mix all lightly with a fork, adding seasoning to taste. A little chopped pickle may also be added if liked. When thoroughly hot, pile the mixture on a hot dish and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. 1692. Liver Balls 1 lb. cooked liver. 2 oz. suet. 1 small onion. 1 egg. A little flour. Seasoning. Bread-crumbs. Grate or chop the liver very finely, add to it the suet and onion also chopped, and season with pepper and salt. Beat up the egg and use enough of it to bind the liver, &c., together. Mix well and then form into small balls, using a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb these and then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Note.—About 2 table-spoonfuls melted bacon fat may be used instead of the suet. 1693. Roes on Toast \ doz. soft roes. 6 fingers of toast. A little butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Egg and bread-crumbs. Salt. Coralline pepper, £ lemon. Either bloater or fresh herring roes may be used. Wipe them carefully with a soft cloth, coat them lightly with flour, and if fresh, season with salt. Mix the parsley with some finely made bread- crumbs, and egg and bread-crumb the roes. Heat a small quantity of butter in a frying pan, and fry the roes gently in it until a pretty brown colour. Have ready \ dozen finger-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast and lay a roe on each. Sprinkle them with a little coralline pepper, and serve hot, garnished with small slices of lemon. 4 lb. cooked salmon. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk or fish stock. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1694. Salmon Cutlel 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Alittle grated lemon rind A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper. Salt. Egg and bread-crumbs. Make in the same way as Fish Cutlets (see Recipe 342). Tinned salmon may be used if wished. Sufficient for 8 or 9 cutlets. 1690. Kidney Toast, 2 Prepare and cook the kidneys in the same way as for Kidneys Sautes (Recipe 928). When ready, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and stir in a well-beaten egg. Mix well, but do not boil, and serve on neat fingers of hot buttered toast. 1691. Meat Kedgeree J- lb. cooked meat. 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 oz. butter, i tea-sp. curry powder. 1 hard-boiled egg. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Trim the meat and chop it finely, chop also the hard-boiled egg, and have the rice boiled dry as 1695. Potted Salmon Pepper. Salt. A pinch of powdered mace. A pinch of cayenne. 6 oz. cooked salmon. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. anchovy < shrimp essence. \ tea-sp. vinegar. Free the salmon from all skin and bone, and then weigh it. Put it into a mortar with most of the butter melted, and season to taste and rather highly. Pound well until smooth, and then rub through a sieve. Pack this smoothly into a small pot or jar, and run the rest of the butter over the top, which will preserve the mixture and pre- vent it from becoming dry. This makes delightful