SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 183 With very thick sauces a spoonful of liquid, water, stock, on milk, may be run over the top. TO TAMMY A SAUCE The material used for tammy-cloths is a special kind of fine but very strong woollen muslin. Rather more than a yard should be allowed for each cloth. The tammy-cloth should always be wet with boiling water before using it, as this will prevent the sauce or other liquid spurting out un- necessarily. It requires two people to do the work easily. The tammy-cloth must be spread over a basin, and the sauce poured well into the middle of it; gather the edges of the cloth at the two ends Wringing Sauce through Tammy together, and then twist tightly in opposite direc- tions until all the sauce has been wrung through. If a thick mixture is being tammied it must be rubbed through with two long wooden spoons. The spoons must be held obliquely, with their backs upwards. To make the mixture go through, work the spoons briskly to and fro, keeping accurate time, so that their points do not clash in the middle. Tammying produces a peculiarly smooth sauce, which is never obtained by ordinary straining. Care must be taken to keep the cloths perfectly clean. They should be put to soak directly after use, and then well rinsed out, scalded, and dried. gives a better flavour than the ordinary plain milk. Put as much milk, or milk and water, as is re- quired into a lined saucepan, with a small piece of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, a bay-leaf, one or two cloves, and a few parsley stalks. Let the saucepan stand by the side of the fire until the milk is well seasoned, then strain and cool before using. FOUNDATION SAUCES Brown sauce and white sauce may be called the two principal foundation sauces, and by the addition to one or other of these of some special ingredient, wine, essence, herbs, acid, condiment, &c., many other sauces take their distinctive name. A thorough knowledge of how to make these two sauces is therefore the beginning of all sauce- making. 670. Brown Sauce (Sauce Espagnole) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pt. brown stock. 1 small onion. A small piece of carrot and turnip. 1 stick of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. A bouquet garni. 3 or 4 cloves. A blade of mace. 12 black peppercorns. Salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan and let it brown. Add the onion, cut in thin slices, and stir con- stantly until it is brown also. Then add the flour, and stir a minute or two longer. Upon the thorough browning of these three ingredients, without allowing them to burn, depends, to a large extent, the good colour of the sauce. When this is accomplished draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil for a few minutes, and remove all scum with an iron spoon. Have the other vegetables prepared and cut small, and add them next with the bouquet garni, or bunch of herbs, and the seasonings. If celery seed is used, tie it in a piece of muslin. Simmer the sauce slowly for at least half an hour, stirring occasionally, and skimming when necessary. Strain through a fine strainer or tammy-cloth, and reheat before using. Notes.—If the stock used is already well- flavoured, some of the vegetables and seasonings may be omitted. A few chopped mushrooms or mushroom trimmings, a little chopped ham, and a sliced tomato may be added, also a little wine if wished. This sauce forms the foundation for a number of other brown sauces. 671. A Simple White Sauce (Sauce Blanche) | oz. butter. i White pepper. Salt. | oz. flour. | pt. milk. J A squeeze of lemon juice. PART I SIMPLE HOT AND FOUNDATION SAUCES SEASONED MILK FOR SAUCES This is frequently required in the making of sauces, especially for white sauce, t» which it Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire without dis- colouring, then draw the pan to the side and pour in the milk. Return to the fire, and keep stirring constantly until boiling. Boil for two or three minutes so as to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Re- move the pan from the fire before adding the lemon juice.