FISH 97 Sole (Sole) This is a flat fish of excellent quality; in fact, next to the turbot, it is considered the finest of all white fish. The flesh of the sole is firm and delicate in flavour, and it lends itself to a variety of modes of cooking. It is best when eaten fresh, but in cold weather it will keep for a day or two without harm. There are two different kinds of sole, the real or black sole, which is long and narrow in shape, A. Lemon Sole B. Sole with a dark and roughish upper skin, and the lemon sole, which is rounder and more like the plaice in appearance, with a smoother and reddish brown upper skin. The lemon sole is decidedly inferior in quality to the real sole, and is, in consequence, cheaper. The sole is one of our most useful kinds of fish, as it lends itself to such a variety of treatment. 249. Soles, To Fry, 1 (Soles Frites) Small soles. | Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. When soles are small they may be fried whole. Wash and clean them thoroughly, removing the skin, then cut off the heads and fins, and dry well in a cloth. Put a little flour on a plate, and season it with pepper and salt. Dip the fish into this, coating them lightly. Then egg and bread-crumb (see p. 249), and fry in boiling fat (see Wet Fry- ing, p. 248) until nicely browned. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Note.—Larger fish must be fried in a small quantity of fat in a frying pan, as they will require a longer time to cook. 250. Soles, To Fry, 2 Prepare the soles in the same way as above, but instead of egging and bread-crumbing them dip them in flour, then in milk and in flour again. This must be done just before the fish is to be cooked, otherwise the flour becomes damp and the fish will be sodden. 251. Filleted and Fried Sole Prepare in the same way as Filleted and Fried Haddock (see Recipe 205). 252. Sole au Gratin (Sole au Gratin) 1 sole. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 6 button mushrooms. 1 shallot. £ oz. butter. Grated lemon rind. Lemon juice. Salt, pepper. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. 1 glass white wine or stock. A nice plump, medium-sized sole is best for this. Clean it, remove the black skin, and cut off the head and fins. Take a fireproof dish large enough to hold the sole comfortably, and grease it with a little butter. Chop the shallot and mushrooms, mix them with the chopped parsley and a little grated lemon rind, and sprinkle half this mixture over the dish. Score the sole across on both sides, and lay it on the top with the white skin down- wards. Sprinkle the rest of the chopped ingredients on the top, and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Cover with the bread-crumbs and put on the butter in small pieces. Pour the wine or stock round, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. The fish must be served on the dish on which it is cooked. A few button mushrooms or some parsley and cut lemon may be used as a garnish. Notes.—Almost any white wine may be used, such as Graves, Chablis, Sauterne, or Hock. If stock is used instead of wine a little glaze should be melted in it to give a richer flavour. Care must be taken not to use too much liquid, as the fish should only be moist, not sloppy. Any other flat fish may be cooked in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 253. Fillets of Sole with Cheese (Filets de Sole au Parmesan or a la Mornay) 1 sole. 2 or 3 oz. grated Par- mesan. Salt, cayenne. 1 oz. butter, § oz. flour. J pt. fish stock. A little lemon juice. To Prepare the Fish.—Skin and fillet the sole, and make some stock with the trimmings (see p. 78). Trim the fillets neatly, and lay them on a board with the side from which the skin was taken uppermost. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Double each fillet over lengthwise, place them on a greased baking tin, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. The fish is ready when it has lost its clear appearance and looks a creamy white. To Prepare the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add to it the flour, and mix to- gether with a wooden spoon until smooth ; pour in the fish stock (slightly cooled) and stir until boiling. Boil for 2 to 3 minutes to thoroughly cook the flour, and season to taste wfith salt, cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon juice. The sauce must be thick enough to coat the fish. Add most of the cheese to the sauce, but do not boil again. Any liquid left in the tin after cooking the fish should be strained into the sauce. To Dish the Fish.—Arrange the fillets on a hot dish, one leaning against the other, either in a G