SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 189 be taken to get it of the right consistency. If made too thin the meat will show through, and if too thick it will have a lumpy appearance. 714. Sauce Chaudfroid (Blanche), 2 I pt. bechamel or vel- oute sauce. Recipes 672-3. A little cream. 2 or 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. The sauce used for a chaudfroid must be of a fairly thick consistency, and should contain enough cream to make it very white in colour. Warm the sauce and add to it the liquid aspic, strain or tammy before using. If no aspic jelly is available dissolve 2 sheets of gelatine in a little chicken or other white stock, and strain it into the sauce. 715. Sauce Chaudfroid (Brune) & pt. good brown sauce. 1 table-sp. sherry or port. 2 or 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. 1 oz. meat glaze. Dissolve the glaze in the brown sauce (Recipe 670) in order to make it a good rich colour. Add the aspic and wine, and strain or tammy before using. 716. Sauce a la Creme, 1 | pt. cream. I 2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 Salt and pepper. Put the cream into an enamelled saucepan, and warm it gently over the fire without allowing it to boil. Then remove the pan from the fire, stir in the yolks of eggs and butter, season to taste, and beat all together for a minute. This sauce is delicious served with boiled fish or vegetables, but unless cream and eggs are plentiful it is too ex- pensive for ordinary use. 717. Sauce a la Creme, 2 Make in the same way as Bechamel Sauce (Recipe 672), adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls good cream. 718. Cucumber Sauce, Hot (Sauce aux Concombres) pt. bechamel 1 cucumber. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. spinach. cooked or veloute sauce. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Peel the cucumber, and cut it in thin slices. Put it into a saucepan with the butter and spinach, and stew it slowly for 15 to 20 minutes, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. Then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve and return to a clean saucepan. Add the bechamel (Recipe 672) or other good white sauce, and mix thoroughly. Season to taste, and stir in the cream last of all. A little green colouring may be used instead of the cooked spinach, but it is not so good. 719. Sauce Demi-glace (Half-Glaze Sauce) i pt. Espagnole sauce. I 1 glass sherry or i oz. meat glaze. | Madeira wine. Reduce the Espagnole sauce (see Recipe 670), allowing it to boil 15 minutes. Dissolve in it the glaze, and add the wine at the last. 720. Sauce Espagnole See Brown Sauce (Recipe 670). 721. Sauce Genevoise | pt. brown sauce. 1 oz. butter. 1 glass sherry or Mar- sala. A bouquet garni. 1 table-sp. onion. 1 dessert-sp. butter. chopped anchovy This is a rich fish sauce, and the brown founda- tion sauce should be made with fish stock. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and bunch of herbs, and fry them a few minutes. Then add the brown sauce and red wine, and simmer all slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, skimming when necessary. Tammy or sieve the sauce, and reheat, adding the anchovy butter (Recipe 760). 722. Sauce GSnoise | pt. brown sauce. 1 small onion. 1 shallot. A small bouquet garni. | oz. butter. | tea-sp. anchovy essence. | glass port or Bur- gundy. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and shallot finely chopped and the bunch of herbs, and fry for a few minutes. Add the wine and simmer slowly until the onion is cooked. Then add the sauce (Recipe 670) and simmer a few minutes longer. Strain through a tammy-cloth or very fine strainer, reheat, add the anchovy essence and more seasoning if necessary. If to be used with fish, the brown sauce should be made with fish stock. 723. Sauce Hollandaise 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. vinegar. 2 table-sps. water. 2 yolks of eggs. A squeeze of lemon juice. Salt and pepper. A pinch of cayenne. Put the water, vinegar, and yolks of eggs into a saucepan, place the pan in another saucepan of hot water, and stir over the fire constantly until the sauce thickens. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the butter in small pieces, letting each piece melt before another is added. The sauce must not boil, or it will curdle. Add the lemon juice, and season to taste. Tarragon may be used instead of plain vinegar, and is preferred by many. If the sauce is to be served with fish, make it with some of the water in which the fish is boiled. 724. Sauce Italienne | pt. brown sauce. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 2 shallots. A sprig of thyme. | doz. preserved mush- rooms. 1 bay-leaf. | glass white wine. Chop the shallots very finely and put them into a small saucepan with the oil. Cook for a few minutes over the fire, but do not colour. Add the wine, the mushrooms finely chopped, thyme, bay- leaf, and brown sauce (Recipe 670). Simmer slowly at least 15 minutes, skimming when necessary. Remove the herbs before serving. Note.—A little finely-chopped ham may be added if liked.