COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 439 form a bag (see p. 63). Have ready two basins and some boiling water. Pour the water through the cloth into one of the basins so as to heat it thoroughly, and then put the dry basin underneath and pour away the water. Remove the lid from the sauce- pan, lift it carefully over without shaking it, and pour the contents into the cloth. The jelly will not be clear the first time, as it is shaken up in pouring through ; so change the basin, and pour what has rim through back again into the cloth. Repeat this several times until the jelly runs through perfectly clear. Cover the stand with a piece of flannel or blanket, and let it remain until all the jelly has run through. Then mould or use as required. Notes.—The whites and shells of eggs are added to clear the jelly. The jelly should be strained in a warm place and out of a draught. Should it stiffen in the cloth before all has run through, place a small basin or cup in the centre and fill it with boiling water. If this fails to melt the jelly, it must be returned to the pan, whisked up again, and strained as before. Probable cost, Is. 1969. Calf’s Foot Jelly This jelly will take two days to make ; the stock must be made the first day, and the jelly finished the second. To Make the Stock 1 ox foot or 2 calf’s feet. 4 or 5 pts. cold water. Cut the foot or feet into four pieces, splitting the hoof piece in two. Wash and scrape them well in a basin of warm water, cutting away any discoloured parts. Remove all marrow from the bones with a skewer, and out away the fat from between the claws. Put the pieces into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover them, and bring them quickly to the boil. Pour the water away, rinse the pieces in clean cold water, and rinse out the saucepan. This is to blanch the pieces, and to make the stock a better colour. Return them to the saucepan, and cover again with cold water—from 4 to 5 pints. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 6 to 7 hours, until the stock is reduced to about half the quantity. Then strain through a hair sieve, or a cloth stretched over a colander, into a basin, and allow the stock to stand until it is quite cold, when it should be a stiff jelly. The pieoes of foot may be put on again with cold water to cover them, and a second stock made if required. To Make and 1| pts. stock. 1 gill lemon juice. 1 gill sherry. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 3 cloves. Clear the Jelly 1 inch cinnamon stick. Rind of 2 lemons. 2 whites and shells of eggs. First remove every particle of fat from the top of the stock, measure it into a saucepan, and add the other ingredients in the above proportions. Then follow the directions given for Lemon Jelly (see above), the jelly stock taking the place of the gelatine and water. Notes.—In hot weather, if the stock has not stiffened sufficiently, it may be necessary to add a sheet or two of gelatine. On the other hand, if it is too stiff, it must be diluted with a little water. The stock itself must always be stiffer than what a finished jelly should be, so as to allow for the thinning down with the wine and lemon juice. The amount of wine used can always be altered. If less is used, more lemon juice or some orange juice should be added to make up the amount. The amount of sugar can also be altered to suit individual tastes. Sometimes an invalid will ask for jelly without any, and this will make no differ- ence in the actual making of it. Probable cost. Is. dd. 1970. Apple Mould or Jelly (Moule aux Pommes) 2 lbs. apples. 3 oz. sugar. $ pt. water. Rind of 1 lemon. f oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Wash the apples and cut them in pieces without peeling and coring. Put them into a fined stewpan with the £ pint of water, the thinly peeled rind of a lemon, and the sugar. Stew until reduced to a pulp, and then rub through a hair sieve. This pur6e should measure 3 gills, and if less, the quan- tity should be made up with warm water. Melt the gelatine in 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the apple pulp while still warm. Add 2 or 3 drops of carmine, or just enough to give the puree a pinkish tinge. Mix well, pour into a wet mould and set aside until cold and firm. Turn out when wanted, and serve with custard or cream. Notes.—Another way of moulding this mixture is to colour half of it pink, leaving the other half its natural colour, and to set them in layers in the mould. One layer should set before pouring in another. Or, the mixture may be set in a border mould, and when turned out the centre filled with whipped cream. Or, again, the mixture may be set in little dariole moulds, and when turned out, a little whipped and sweetened cream forced out of a forcing bag on the top of each in the form of a rose, and then lightly sprinkled with chopped pistachio nuts or a few crystallised rose petals. Suitable for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 1971. Banana Sponge 4 or 5 bananas. I 1 gill cream. \ pt. lemon jelly. I Apricot yellow. Choose nice ripe bananas, peel them, cut them-in small pieces and rub -them through a sieve. Take \ pint lemon or other clear jelly, which is just be- ginning to set, mix it with the banana pulp. Whip them together with a wire whisk until white and frothy. .Then mix in the cream, which has been whipped and sweetened. Whisk again until quite light, colour with a little apricot yellow, and pile up on a glass dish. Note.—If preferred, the whipped cream may be kept separate and squeezed out of a forcing bag to decorate the sponge. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 2d. 1972. Cherry Mould or Jelly (Moule aux Cerises) 1 lb. cherries. 3 gills of water. | oz. leaf gelatine. The juice of £ lemon. J lb. sugar. A few drops of carmine. 1 gill of double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Wash and pick the cherries, then cut them in two and remove the stones. Put them into a