586 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Bound with a piece of white or green ribbon, and the cake is finished. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, la. 2d. to la. 6d. 2820. Shortbread 4 oz. flour. 2 oz. rice flour. 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. A few drops of flavour- ing. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and rub in the butter. Add the flavouring, and then knead all into one lump without using any liquid. Turn out on a board sprinkled with rice flour, and form into a smooth round. If a shortbread mould is obtainable, shape the cake in that; if not, pinch it round the edges with the fingers, or mark it with a knife. Then place the shortbread on a greased baking tin, and prick it all over with a fork. A strip of candied peel may be put on the top if wished, or any other decoration that is desired. Bake in a moderate oven until the shortbread is of a uniform brown colour, and feels firm to the touch. Allow it to cool before removing it from the tin. Note.—If the dough becomes rather soft in the making, it will be well to allow the shortbread to stand until quite cool before baking, otherwise it is apt to lose its form. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, M. 2821. Silver Cake l lb. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar. J- lb. flour. J lb. cornflour. 5 whites of eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. | tea-sp. essence of al- monds, or any other flavouring preferred. Put the butter into a warm basin, and beat it to a cream. Sieve the sugar on the top and beat again. Sieve the flour and baking powder to- gether, and mix them for a minute with the creamed butter and sugar. Then beat the whites of eggs to a stiffish froth, but not quite so stiff as for an omelet, and add them lightly at the last with the flavouring. Half fill one large tin that has been prepared as for a sponge cake (see p. 551), and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Or, the mixture may be baked in smaller tins, when less time will be required. This cake will look very nice if coated with white or pink glace icing, and ornamented with any suitable decoration. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Probable cost, 9d. 2822. Simnel Cake 1 lb. flour. | lb. butter. \ lb. castor sugar. 5 eggs. The grated rind of 1 lemon. The grated rind of 1 orange. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. | lb. sultanas. J lb. candied peel. \ lb. Valencia raisins. § lb. currants. | gill brandy. \ tea-sp. ground ginger. \ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. ^tea-sp. grated nutmeg. Almond •paste. First prepare the fruit (see p. 551), and mix it with one table-spoonful of the dry flout:. Then take a strong cake tin, and line it with at least two folds of thick white paper. When these are ready, proceed to make the cake. Put the butter into a large basin, and warm it slightly without allowing the butter to become oily. Then beat with a large wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix it well in. Next add the spices, grated orange and lemon rinds, yolks of eggs and brandy. Beat for a few minutes, and add the flour sieved and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix very lightly, and stir in the prepared fruit and baking powder last of all. Do not beat after the fruit is added. Pour the mixture into the prepared cake tin, smooth it over the top, and bake in a steady oven until well risen and firm to the touch. This cake improves with keeping, and should not be cut for three or four weeks after making. A simnel cake is usually coated with almond paste, and this should be put on two or three days before the cake is to be used. To Coat with Almond Paste.—Take the quantity of almond paste, given on p. 590, and spread it smoothly on the cake. Then take a fork and score the paste across first one way and then the other, and coat lightly with beaten yolk of egg. Place the cake in a moderate oven, or place it beneath the grill light on a gas stove until the almond paste is nicely browned. Note.—Sometimes a layer of almond paste is put in the middle of this cake. When this is desired, half the above quantity of the paste should be made before the cake is baked, and this should be made in a round the size of the cake tin, and laid in the middle of the mixture before baking. Simnel cakes are generally eaten at Easter, although in some parts of the country they are indulged in at Mid-Lent or on “ Mothering Sunday.” They also make good Christmas cakes. In olden days the simnel cake used to be boiled as well as baked. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, without almond paste, 2s. 9d. 2823. Snow Cake, 1 J lb. fresh butter. | lb. fine castor sugar. J lb. arrowroot. | lb. Vienna flour. 3 whites of eggs. Flavouring. Juice of 1 lemon. Beat the butter to a cream in a warm basin, add the sugar finely sifted, and beat again for a few minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and add them gradually with the arrowroot and flour, which should be sifted. Beat all together for half an hour, flavour to taste, and add the lemon juice. Pour the mixture into a flat tin which has been greased and lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about £ hour. Probable cost. Is. 2824. 1 lb. potato flour. 6 oz. butter. £ lb. sugar. Snow Cake, 2 4 eggs. The rind of 1 lemon. A few drops of vanilla. Cream the butter and sugar, add the grated rind of 1 lemon, and a few drops of vanilla, and then the eggs and potato flour by degrees. When all are in, beat the mixture steadily for half an hour, pour it into a rather shallow tin