SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 231 921. Sheep’s Head and Trotters Prepare and cook in the same way as Lamb’s Head. The trotters are washed and scraped and cooked along with the head. In Scotland the head is very often singed to give it more flavour; in this case it will require careful scraping and soaking before it is cooked. 922. Sheep’s Head au Gratin herbs. A little butter or chip- ping. Juice of | lemon. Salt. Pepper. Tomato or brown sauce. I sheep’s head. 3 table - sps. bread- crumbs. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. | tea - sp. powdered Prepare and cook the head as in Recipe 920, or use the head from which broth has been made. Remove the bones carefully, destroying the form of the head as little as possible. Lay the head on a well-greased tin and season it with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Mix the parsley, herbs, and bread-crumbs together, sprinkle them over the head, lay some small pieces of butter or drip- ping on the top, and bake till brown in a good oven. When ready, lift on to a hot dish and serve garnished with slices of lemon and, if liked, some little rolls of bacon. Brown, tomato, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. 923. Sheep’s Heart, Roasted in the Pan 1 sheep’s heart. Veal stuffing. 2 oz. dripping. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 cupful stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Thoroughly wash the heart in several cold waters, cutting away the pipes and flaps. Then allow it to lie in cold salted water for £ hour. After this, dry it well, fill the cavities with veal stuffing (Recipe 1281), and tie a strong piece of greased paper over the stuffing to keep it in place, or the opening may be sewn up. Melt the dripping in an iron stewpan, put in the heart and baste it well. Then cover the saucepan and allow it to roast by the side of the stove, basting occasionally. When ready, lift the heart on to a hot dish and remove the paper. Pour away most of the fat from the pan, sprinkle in the flour and stir until brown. Then add the stock, stir until boiling, and skim well. Season to taste, adding the lemon juice at the last. Strain this sauce round the heart and serve with red-currant jelly. Notes.—Sheep’s hearts may also be cooked ac- cording to the recipes given for Beef Heart or Calf’s Heart, but they will require a shorter time. Sage and onion stuffing may be used instead of veal stuffing. Time to roast, f hour. Sufficient for 2 persons. 924. Grilled Sheep’s Kidneys (Rognons de Mouton Grilles) A few bread-crumbs. 6 sheep’s kidneys. 2 table - sps. melted butter or salad oil. Salt. Pepper. Croutons of fried bread. The kidneys must be very fresh. Take off the thin skin which covers them and split them open without separating the two parts. Remove the white tube or duct and cut away the fat from the middle. Hold the kidneys open and pierce them from one side to the other with small wooden or silver skewers. Brush them over with salad oil or melted butter, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with a few bread-crumbs. Then place them on a hot broiler with the cut side next the fire and broil (see p. 208) until sufficiently cooked, turning them frequently. When ready, place them on a hot dish with croutons of fried bread under them, and remove the skewers, if they are wooden ones. The hollows in the centre of the kidneys may be filled with small pats of maitre d’Hotel butter or small rolls of bacon may be served along with them. Devil sauce or tartare sauce may be served separately. Time to broil, about 8 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. 925. Devilled Kidneys, 1 3 or 4 kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. Cayenne. Salt. 1 tea-sp. chutney. A squeeze of lemon juice. J tea-sp. made mustard. 1 gill stock. 2 yolks of eggs. A few bread-crumbs. Split the kidneys and cut them in small pieces, removing the white centre and the skin. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the onion very finely chopped and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then add the kidney with the seasoning ; mix well over the fire and pour in the stock and wine. Cover and stew over a moderate fire until the kidney is sufficiently cooked. When ready, draw the pan to one side and stir in the yolks of eggs. Sill small scallop shells with this mixture, sprinkle with fine bread- crumbs, and pour over a little melted butter. Place the scallops in a baking tin and brown them quickly in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. 4 Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 scallops. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 926. Devilled Kidneys, 2 Prepare some sheep’s kidneys as for grilling (Recipe 924). Dip them into melted butter and season rather highly with black pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Then grill and serve very hot on round croutons of fried bread with a pat of devil paste (Recipe 763) in the centre of each kidney.