550 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES There is perhaps no branch of cookery where greater care and accuracy are required than in that of cake making, and novices in the art are recommended to follow the instructions to the letter, and not to experi- ment in altering the quantities, or even the mode of procedure, until some experience has been acquired. The handling or manipulation of the cake has a^great deal to do with the lightness of it. Some people seem to have a natural gift for turning out light cakes and pastry, while to others success will only come after much practice. This is especially noticeable in the making of such things as scones and bread, where much of the actual mixing is done by the hand itself, and the same recipe followed by several different people will produce entirely different results in each case, varying from light to what might be termed decidedly heavy. However, failure at first must not dishearten the amateur, as repeated efforts almost invariably end in quite successful productions. The following pages deal with bread and cake making in their different branches, and include a repre- sentative selection of recipes, from plain bread and scones to fancy cakes of all kinds. VARIOUS PRELIMINARIES Before beginning to make a cake, pay attention to the oven and see that it is likely to be sufficiently hot by the time the cake is ready for it. Many cakes, and especially those that are made with baking powder, will spoil if they have to stand waiting for the oven to heat, or if they are put into one that is not sufficiently hot. A little forethought in this respect will avoid many a failure. Then get ready the necessary cake tin or tins, and prepare them in a manner suited to the kind of cake that is being made. Having considered these necessary preliminaries, the actual making of the cake may be commenced. First gather together all the materials that will be required and weigh and measure them care- fully ; then, if there is any fruit or other ingredient requiring preparation, make all this ready before starting the actual mixing. In some cake mixtures, and especially the plainer ones, the butter or fat is rubbed into the flour, in others it is beaten to a cream before the other in- gredients are mixed with it; then again, in other mixtures, the eggs or yolks of eggs are creamed with the sugar, and the butter is added in a melted form, according to the nature of the cake. For explanation of these processes, instructions as to what method to follow are given with each recipe. Cake baking is somewhat troublesome at first, and especially until one gets accustomed to a par- ticular oven, and as small cakes are more easily fired than the larger and more solid ones it is ad- visable to experiment with these until some ex- perience has been gained. In fact experience is the surest guide to successful cake-baking. Certain instructions may be given and certain simple tests as to the heat of the oven applied, but after a little practice the right temperature can be pretty ac- curately gauged by simply feeling the oven with the hand. Of course the most accurate test of all is the thermometer, but even this will not do away with the necessity for careful watching. PREPARATION OF CAKE TINS Cake tins should always be prepared before the mixing of the ingredients is commenced; as most cakes will spoil if the mixture is allowed to stand and wait because the tins are not ready. Cake tins made of good block tin are the best to buy and will be found the cheapest in the end. To Line a Round Cake Tin with Paper.—Cut a double band of paper 2 or 3 inches deeper than the cake tin and rather longer than the circumference. Fold up an inch of this band on the double fold and make a mark. Open out and make cuts along the marked-off inch of the paper an inch or so apart. Arrange this band inside the cake tin, making the notched part of the paper to lie flat on the bottom of the tin. Then cut a double round of paper exactly the size to fit inside the tin, and lay it smoothly on the bottom. The paper must lie per- fectly flat: there must be no wrinkles. If the tin used is very large, three or four folds of paper may be used. If the cake mixture contains a fair amount of butter, no grease is required, but if there is little or no fat in the cake ingredients the paper and tin may be greased with clarified butter or melted lard. To Line a Flat Tin with Paper.—If the tin is very shallow the paper will not require to be shaped, but just pressed in smoothly and snipped at the corners if necessary. Grease if necessary, and in