664 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD THE MENU What It Comprises.—The different courses of a complete menu will compriso the following : hors- d’oeuvre, potage, poisson, entrees, releve, sorbet, roti, entremets, dessert, cafe. One or more of tho courses may, of course, be omitted, but the order of serving them remains the same. The number of dishes depends entirely upon the style of the dinner ; it may consist of three or four, or of eleven or twelve. For instance, the hors-d’oeuvres and sorbet are seldom given at a small dinner, and either the releve or the r6ti would be omitted. One sweet might follow the last meat course, to bo followed by a cheese dish or other savoury. Ices may either be served in place of a cold sweet, or they may form a separate course after the savoury. The names of the dishes may be written on the menu cards either in French or in English, this is entirely a question of choice. French is perhaps the more fashionable of the two, especially for any dinner of importance, as it is the recognised lan- guage of the kitchen all the world over. It is well to remember that the names of standard dishes should never be altered, and although the English language is generally capable of providing a name for every dish, there are some typical French dishes the names of which are untranslatable. The following are a few notes on tho different courses : Hors-d’CEuvres.—These consist of small appetis- ing morsels usually served cold, such as oysters, olives, anchovies, caviare, smoked salmon, small salads, thin slices of sausage, &c. They may either be served plain or made up in some more elaborate style. Small plain biscuits or thin brown bread and butter may accompany the plain hors- d’ceuvres. Potage (Soup).—Either one or two soups may be served. If only one, it is preferable to have it clear or of a very light character, especially if there are a number of courses to follow. If there are two soups, one may be clear and the other thick, or one brown and one white, for the sake of variety. Poisson (Fish).—This either be plainly boiled with a sauce, or dressed in a more elaborate fashion, or there may be one dish of each. A simple dish should be served before one that is more elaborate, and a hot dish before a cold. Entries.—The term is applied to all kinds of made dishes, which are complete in themselves as regards sauce and garnish, such as cutlets, fillets, quenelles, croquettes, made dishes of poultry and game, &c. An entree may be either hot or cold, and it should be served very daintily. If more than one is served, they should differ in colour and kind, and a hot should always precede a cold. Releve (or Remove).—This is the substantial part of a dinner, and consists generally of a joint, either roasted, boiled, or braised, and a garnish generally gives the characteristic name. One vegetable besides potatoes is usually served with the remove, and the accompaniments should be handed round. Sorbet.—A half-frozen water ice which is served in cups immediately after the roast. Roti.—Game or poultry plainly roasted or other- wise prepared, served with salad and potato chips. Entremets.—These may be divided into three classes—(1) dressed vegetables (legumes); (2) sweet entremets, both hot and cold; (3) savouries, which precede the dessert and are usually hot. Dessert.—Fruits of various kinds and 'petite jours or other fancy biscuits. Coffee.—This must be black—cream being served separately.