531 INVALID COOKERY yolk of an egg may be used if the soup is wished richer. Put the yolk into a basin, and pour the hot soup slowly on to it, stirring all the time. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream may be used instead of the milk. 2509. Game Soup 1 bird (grouse, wood- cock, pigeon, or par- tridge), or the re- mains of game. £ lb. lean, juicy beef. H pts. cold water. J tea-sp. arrowroot. A pinch of celery seed, pepper, and salt. Wipe the game with a damp cloth, and break it into small pieces. Also wipe the beef, and shred it finely, the same as for beef-tea. Put all these into a cleaned lined saucepan, with the cold water and seasoning; bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Allow the soup to simmer gently about 4 hours, then strain, and allow it to cool. Remove all fat from the top, and return the soup to the saucepan. Break the arrowroot with a little cold water, add it, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil 2 or 3 minutes until the arrowroot turns quite clear. More flavouring may be added according to taste, and a little sherry or port, if liked. Time to cook, 4 hours. Cost uncertain. 2510. Mutton Broth 1 lb. neck or knuckle of mutton. 2 pts. cold water. 1 dessert-sp. whole rice. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. salt. Wipe the meat well with a damp cloth to make it quite clean, and cut it into small pieces away from the bone. Remove as much of the fat from it as possible, and do not use it in the broth. Put the meat, bones, water, and salt into a clean lined pan ; put on the lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Then remove with an iron spoon all scum that rises. If this is allowed to boil down again, the broth will have a cloudy appearance. Simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours, skimming when necessary. Then strain through a fine strainer or sieve, and let it stand till cold. When cold, remove all fat from the top with a spoon, or by passing pieces of kitchen paper over the top. Return it to a clean sauce- pan with the rice well washed, and allow it to cook again until the rice is quite soft, about 20 minutes. Add the parsley, finely chopped, at the last, and it is ready for serving. Note.—Crushed tapioca, or arrowroot broken with a little cold water, may be used for thickening the broth instead of rice. For a more savoury mutton broth, see p. 45. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, lOd. 2511. Mutton Tea This may be made in the same way as beef-tea. A shoe of meat from the leg is one of the best pieces to use, as it is less streaked with fat than the other parts. A few small pieces of celery or other flavouring vegetable may be added if allowed. This makes a little variety to the constant use of beef, and it is liked by some invalids. Note.— Veal tea may also be made in the same way, or a mixture of mutton and veal, or beef and veal may be used. 2512. Onion Soup 1 large or 2 small Spanish onions. 1 pt. light stock or broth | cup milk. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. \ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. Seasoning. Peel the onions, and soak them in boiling water with a little salt for about h hour. Then cut them in thin shoes or rings, and put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with the stock and butter. Cook slowly until the onions are quite tender, and then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, and return the soup to it. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the milk, add it to the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Season to taste, cook slowly for a few minutes, and add the cream just before serving. Time to cook, I to hours. Probable cost, 6d. 2513. Rice Soup 1 pt. of mutton, veal, 1 yolk of egg. or chicken broth. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 table-sp. Patna rice. Remove any fat from the top of the broth, put it into a clean saucepan with the rice well washed, and boil until the rice is perfectly soft. Then rub all through a fine sieve, rinse out the pan, and return the soup to it. Beat up the yolk of egg and cream with a fork, strain them into the soup, and stir carefully over the fire until thoroughly hot, but on no account let it boil, or it will curdle. Notes.—Milk (1 tea-cupful) may be used instead of yolk of egg and cream, and a little chopped parsley may be added. This soup may also be served without sieving. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. 2514. Strengthening Soup or Jelly 1 lb. shin of beef. 4 to 5 pts. cold water. 1 lb. knuckle of veal. Salt. 1 lb. shank of mutton. Wash the pieces of meat in cold water, or wipe them thoroughly with a damp cloth. Then cut the meat in small pieces away from the bone, and remove any fat or marrow. Put the meat, bones, and skin into a large deep saucepan, sprinkle with a little salt, and cover well with cold water. Bring very slowly to boiling point with the lid on the pan, and skim carefully. Simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours, or until the goodness is well extracted from the meat, &c. The liquid should reduce to about half the quantity in the cooking ; if it boils away more than this, some fresh water must be added. When ready, strain into a large basin, and stand until cold. Carefully remove all fat, and heat as required, or it may be served cold as a jelly. Note.—The addition of a few pieces or trimmings of game will help to make this soup or jelly more tasty. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. 2515. Strong Meat Jelly 1 calf’s foot. 3 pts. cold water. 1 lb. knuckle of veal. Salt. 1 lb. shin of beef. Wash and scrape the calf’s foot, and blanch it according to directions given in Recipe No. 1969.