COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 441 1977. Lemon Sponge Rind and juice of 2 lemons. 2 oz. sugar. 2 whites of eggs. 1 oz. gelatine. | pt. water. 1 table-sp. sherry. Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth, and peel the rind off them as thinly as possible. Put the rind into a saucepan with the gelatine, sugar, and water, and dissolve slowly over the fire. Then strain into a basin and cool slightly. Strain in the Note.—This makes a pretty sweet for children’s parties. Sufficient for 6 or 8 jellies. Probable cost, 2d. each. 1979. Orange Baskets Prepare some cups with the orange peel as shown in the illustration. Fill them with liquid orange or lemon jelly, and let them set. Then put some whipped and sweetened cream into a forcing bag or paper cornet, and force some out prettily on the top of each. Decorate with small pieces of cherry. Lemon Sponge lemon juice, add the whites of eggs and sherry, and whisk all together until white and frothy. Put the mixture into a wet mould, and stand in a cool place until firm. Turn out on a glass dish when wanted. Notes.—Half the mixture may be coloured pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal, and then put into the mould in alternate spoonfuls. In- stead of moulding the sponge, it may be piled up on a glass dish in a rocky manner, and decorated with small pieces of angelica. The sherry may be omitted. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1978. Macaroon Jellies 6 to 8 small macaroons. | pt. clear jelly. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 2 table-sps. sherry. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill double cream. 1 sheet gelatine. 1 table-sp. water. Flavouring. A few glace cherries. Rinse out 6 or 8 patty tins with cold water, pour into each a little liquid jelly that has been coloured pink with a few drops of carmine, and allow this layer of jelly to set. Sprinkle the macaroons with a little sherry, place one in each tin, fill with more pink jelly, and put them in a cool place to set. Whip the cream, add the sugar and a little flavouring, and strain in the gelatine, which has been dissolved in a little water. Mix well and use when almost setting. Turn out the little jellies, and arrange on a lace-edged paper, or on a bed of chopped lemon jelly. Put the cream into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force some out on the top of each jelly, piling it rather high. Decorate with a few small pieces of cherry. Orange Baskets some silver dragees, or hundreds and thousands, and serve them on a bed of chopped jelly. Notes.—If liked, a handle of angelica that has been well soaked may be put across each basket. This makes a pretty dish for children’s parties. They may be decorated with natural flowers. 1980. Orange Jelly, \ pt. orange juice (4 or 5 oranges). The rind of 2 oranges. J- lb. loaf sugar. 1 (Gel6e d’Orange) 1 oz. sheet gelatine. | pt. water. The rind and juice of 1 lemon. Wipe the oranges and lemon with a damp cloth, and then peel off very thinly as much rind as required. Put the rind into a small lined sauce- pan with the gelatine cut in pieces, the loaf sugar and water. Stir these over the fire until the gelatine is quite dissolved, and then simmer for 10 minutes. Skim and strain into a basin. Roll the oranges and lemon on the table to soften them slightly, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the juice. Strain and measure this, and add it to the other ingredients in the basin. Stir occasionally, and when cool, pour into a wet mould or moulds, and set aside until firm. Turn out when required, and serve with cream. Note.—The jelly may be set in a border mould, and, when turned out, the centre may be filled with whipped and sweetened cream. Decorate the cream with chopped pistachio nuts or small pieces of cherry. Probable cost, 7d. 1981. Orange Jelly, | pt. orange juice. 1 gill lemon juice. 5 gills cold water. 6 oz. loaf sugar. I inch cinnamon stick. 4 cloves. 2 (Gelfie d’Orange) 2 oz. sheet gelatine. The rind of 2 oranges. The rind of 1 lemon. 2 whites and shells of eggs- Prepare the ingredients and make the jelly ac- cording to directions given for Lemon Jelly (Recipe