FISH 103 276. Stewed Eels (Anguilles au Jus) 2 lbs. eels. 1 pt. white or fish stock. A bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. cream. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Wash the eels well, skin them and cut them into pieces about 2 inches long. Let them lie in strong salt and water for 1 hour or more. Mean- while put the heads, tails, and any trimmings from the eels into a saucepan with the stock, the bunch of herbs and onion stuck with cloves. Simmer about 1 hour, then strain and use this stock for making the sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan and let it brown slightly, then add the flour, and mis together until quite smooth. Pour in the strained stock, add the ketchup, and stir until boiling. Lift the pieces of eel out of the salted water, rinse them in fresh cold water, and put them into the saucepan with the sauce. Stew gently about 1 hour or until the eels are cooked, add the cream just before serving, and season to taste. Lift the pieces of eel on to a hot dish, strain the sauce over, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and garnish with sippets of toast. Note.—A glass of port or claret may be added to the sauce if liked. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 277. Eels In Jelly, 1 (Anguilles au GeleS) 24 lbs. eels, if pts. white jelly stock. 4 pt. wine vinegar. 2 or 3 cloves. 12 peppercorns. 1 onion. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. Juice of 1 lemon. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Salt. Cleanse and skin the fish, cutting off the heads and tails. Cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches in length, sprinkle these with salt, and let them re- main in a cool place at least 1 hour. Then scald the fish in boiling water a few minutes, drain, and rinse with cold water. Now put some good jelly stock into a saucepan with the spices, parsley, vinegar, and onion, cut in pieces, bring these to the boil, and lay in the fish. Put the lid on the pan, and allow all to simmer slowly until the fish is tender from 15 to 20 minutes. Then place the pieces of eel in a deep dish, large enough to hold the stock as well, and pack them in neatly. Allow the stock to cool, add to it the lemon juice, the egg shells, washed and crushed, the whites slightly beaten. Whisk over the fire until boiling, then draw the saucepan to one side and let it stand a few minutes. Strain the contents through a hair sieve or jelly cloth, pour over the fish, and stand until cold. Mayonnaise or tartare sauce may be served separately. 278. Eels in Jelly, 2 1J to 2 lbs. eels. Water. A little vinegar. Parsley. Seasoning. 1 small onion. 1 bay-leaf. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 2 or 3 anchovies. Salad. Gelatine. Clean and skin the eels as directed on p. 102. Cut them in medium-sized pieces and put them into a saucepan with warm water to cover them. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, add the bay-leaf and onion cut in pieces, and enough vinegar or lemon juice to make the water taste slightly sour. Simmer all slowly until the fish is tender, then lift it out, remove the bones, and cut the flesh in neat pieces. Now strain the liquid and return it to the saucepan, let it boil up and skim it until it looks quite dear. Add gelatine in the proportion of £ oz. to each J pt. of liquid and let it dissolve. Then strain again and put it to cool. Take a plain mould, rinse it out with cold water and leave it wet. Decorate it with some of the hard-boiled egg cut in slices and a few little sprigs of parsley. Then fill up the mould with the fish, remainder of the eggs, the anchovies cut in small pieces, and a little more parsley. Pour in the liquid jelly very slowly and enough to well cover the fish. Put the mould in a cool place, and when set, turn out and garnish with a little salad, or serve beetroot or cucumber separately. Grey Mullet (Mulet or Surmulet) This is quite a different fish from the red mullet and is inferior in quality. It is a favourite with some people, but care should be taken to know where it was caught, as it is not always particular Grey Mullet about its food. Like the mackerel, the grey mullet must be used very fresh. It may be cooked in the same way as haddock, but requires a good sauce to make it taste well. Perch (Perche) A freshwater fish of good quality. The flesh is firm and white, and has a pleasant flavour. It has a bright shiny appearance when fresh, and should be used at once. If found difficult to scale it should Perch be dipped in boiling water for a minute or two. It may be boiled, stewed, broiled like herring, or cut in fillets if large. It is also very good served cold with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. 279. Perch, To Broil or Fry Prepare and cook in the same way as Broiled or Fried Herring (see p. 90).