418 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD tare according to directions given under Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), flavouring it to taste. Put the jam at the bottom of the lined pie dish, and the mixture on the top. Bake in a good oven until the mixture is quite set and well risen, and the pastry a nice brown colour. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Time to bake, about 1 hour. SufiScient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1860. Yorkshire Pudding Batter. 2 or 3 table-sps. beef dripping. Make the batter according to directions given in Recipe 1889, and let it stand at least half an hour. Put the dripping (hot dripping from the roast is best) into a Yorkshire pudding tin, make it quite hot in the oven and run it over the tin. Then pour in the batter and bake in a quick oven until brown and crisp. Cut the pudding in six or eight pieces and serve with roast beef. Time to bake, about \ hour. SufiScient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. PART IV FRITTERS AND FRIED PUDDINGS GENERAL REMARKS The ordinary sweet fritter is composed of a light batter enclosing fruit, or some sweet mixture. When fruit is used it is previously sprinkled with sugar and a little flavouring if liked, and sometimes it is soaked in wine, brandy, or liqueur as well. Small slices of stale cake, which have been soaked in wine or a flavoured syrup, remains of cold puddings of different kinds cut into small pieces, can also be utilised for fritter-making, and many a dainty little dessert can in this way be produced from the veriest scraps. The ingredient used may either be coated only with the batter, or it may be chopped, and mixed with the batter itself. The batter used must be smooth and light, and thick enough to coat the article to be fried without running ofif. At the same time it must not be too thick and stodgy. There are several ways of making this batter, and it is always well to make it some little time before it is required,' as it becomes lighter with standing. Other fritters are made of a dough-like mixture to which some sweet ingredient or fruit is added, others again are made of a soft cream-like mixture covered with a coating of egg and bread-crumbs. Besides these there are a number of miscellaneous fritters, but the following recipes will give one a good idea of what can be done in this way. The frying of the fritters is a very important matter. To begin with, the fat must not be less than 2 or 3 inches in depth (see Deep Frying, p. 248), an ordinary frying pan is not deep enough. Then the fat must be boiling before being used. If there is any doubt as to this, test it by dropping in a small piece of the fritter batter or dough ; if sufficiently hot, this will rise to the surface imme- diately and frizzle briskly. The fat must be hot enough to make the fritters pufi out and become crisp and light; if it has not reached a proper temperature, it will sink into the batter, and the fritters will be heavy and indigestible. Do not put too many fritters into the fat at one time, firstly, in order not to cool the fat too much, and, secondly, because the fritters must have room to swell. Then allow the fat to become quite hot again be- tween each relay of fritters. Do not turn the fritters too quickly, it is better to let one side brown before turning to the other, they will puff out better in this way. When both sides are nicely browned, lift them out with a skimmer or per- forated spoon, letting the fat drip well from them. Drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle with sugar. Sometimes this sugar is flavoured with vanilla, cinnamon, lemon, orange, &c. Serve the fritters quickly, piling them up on a hot dish with a dessert paper under them. A sauce is sometimes served separately. Note.—It is very important to strain the fat after using it for frying fritters, to get rid of the small particles of batter. 1861. Batter for Frying, 1 (Pate it Frire) i lb. flour. 1 gill tepid water. 2 or 3 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. salad oil or melted butter. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the water by degrees, and beat well with a wooden spoon to make a smooth paste free from lumps. Then add the oil or butter, and beat again for a few minutes. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly at the last. Notes.—This batter may be used for all kinds of fritters. Sugar should not be added, as it is apt to make it heavy. It is better if allowed to stand for some time before using, and before the whites of eggs are added. A little rum or liqueur may be added if desired. The batter should be very thick, and of the consistency to coat completely the article it is intended to cover. 1862. Batter for Frying, 2 (P&te a Frire) 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 table-sp. brandy. \ lb. flour. A pinch of salt, li gills of light beer. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the other ingredients by degrees, and mix well until perfectly smooth. If too thick, add a little tepid water. Cover the basin, and let the batter stand in a very cool place at least six hours before using. 1863. Batter for Frying, 3 (P&te A Frire) 2 eggs. | \ lb. flour. J pt. milk. I A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin and make a well in the centre. Add the eggs and then the milk by degrees, beating the batter well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air-bubbles. It should be of a stiff consistency. Let it stand for some little time before using.