262 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1076. Beel Creams (Cremes de Boeuf) | lb. lean beef. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill brown stock. Seasoning. 1 egg. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 1 tea-sp.choppedparsley 1 dessert-sp. chopped mushrooms. Puree of potato or chestnut. Tomato sauce. Green peas. To Prepare the Cream.—Remove all skin and fat from the meat, and pass it through the mincing machine. Put the stock and butter into a small saucepan, bring them to the boil and sprinkle in the flour. Then mix until perfectly smooth, and cook thoroughly. Put this panada into a mortar with the meat, egg, and seasoning to taste. Pound well, and rub all through a wire sieve. Add the cream, parsley, and mushrooms. Mix lightly and fill up six or seven dariole moulds, which have been Beef Creams well greased. Place these in a shallow saucepan or tin, with a double fold of paper under them. Pour in enough boiling water to come half-way up the sides of the moulds, and cover with greased paper. Steam slowly until the creams feel firm to the touch. Lift them out and allow them to stand a minute or two. Then unmould them carefully, and arrange them in a hot entree dish. Decorate them with some potato or chestnut puree put through a forcing bag, and serve with green peas in the centre and tomato sauce round. Time to steam, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. 1077. Mutton Cutlets with Asparagus (Cotelettes de Mouton aux Pointes d’Asperges) 4 or 5 mutton cutlets. Potato puree. Asparagus points. Butter. Clear gravy. Seasoning. Lemon juice. Sherry or Madeira, To Cook the Cutlets.—Prepare and trim the cutlets as directed in Recipe 912. A few minutes before serving, dip them in salad oil or in melted butter. Have ready a hot gridiron or grill, grease it with suet or mutton fat, and lay on the cutlets. Cook them over a clear hot fire or under the grill light of a gas stove, turning them frequently. From 8 to 10 minutes should be sufficient to cook them, and when ready they should be a dainty browm colour outside, showing the darker brown marks of the grill, and red and juicy inside. Garnish and Sauce.—Have ready some white and creamy puree of potato, well seasoned with cayenne pepper and salt. Also some asparagus points, made hot in butter or a little light sauce, and seasoned to taste. And for sauce, some clear gravy to which a little lemon juice and a few drops of sherry have been added, To Serve.—Put the potato puree into a forcing pipe with a large rose pipe at the end of it. Force out a circle on a hot dish, arrange the cutlets with a paper frill on each on the top, fill the centre with asparagus points, and pour the gravy round. Note.—If well cooked, this is one of the most tasty ways of serving cutlets. The puree on which they are served and the garnishing vegetable may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1078. Cotelettes de 4 or 5 mutton cutlets. 1 oz. butter. Vegetables and stock for braising. Mouton aux Marrons Puree of chestnuts. Lemon. Glaze. Sauce demi-glace or Italienne. Trim the cutlets neatly (see Recipe 912) and then braise them thus : melt the butter in a stew- pan and put into it some carrot, turnip, and onion thinly sliced, also a small bunch of herbs and any trimmings of bacon. Lay the cutlets on the top of these, with the bones towards the centre, cover with greased paper, and cook about 10 minutes until the vegetables begin to brown. Then pour in enough good brown stock to nearly cover the Cdtelettes de Mouton aux Marrons vegetables, put the lid on the pan and cook slowly in the oven or at the side of the fire from | to § hour. When ready, lift out the cutlets and brush them over with a good coating of liquid glaze, put paper frills on the bones, and garnish with a very thin slice of lemon. Put some chestnut puree (Recipe 1628) into a forcing bag with a large pipe, and force it out down the centre of a dish, arrange the cutlets on the top of this, one leaning against the other, and pour some sauce demi-glace or Italienne round, or serve it separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1079. Cdtelettes de Mouton a la Milanaise Prepare and cook 5 or 6 mutton cutlets as directed in Recipe 912, mixing a little grated Parmesan with the bread-crumbs used. Prepare also some macaroni £ila Milanaise (Recipe 1618), pile it up in the centre of a hot dish and arrange the cutlets neatly against it, putting a cutlet frill on the bone of each. Then pour some tomato or Madeira sauce round, or serve it separately. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1080. Cdtelettes d’Agneau a la Soubise 4 or 5 lamb cutlets. Puree Soubise. 2 or 3 onions. 1 table-sp. rice. 4 table-sps. stock. Seasoning. A little butter. Egg and bread-crumbs. Sauce Madere. A few mushrooms. To Make the Puree.—Cut the onions in small pieces, put them into a saucepan with boiling water,