COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 596 A Caramel Cutter.—This is rather a luxury ; it is used, lor cutting, or rather marking, caramels and other sweets into exact squares. Crystallising Trays.—These are shallow tins fitted with wire stands or trays for holding fondants or other sweets in position when crystallising is being done. They are only necessary for this purpose. Starch Trays.—Shallow wooden trays which are used for filling wdth confectioner’s starch. Im- pressions are made in this starch with small moulds, and the hollows thus produced used for moulding fondants and other sweets. A shallow wooden tin or cardboard box might be utilised for the purpose. Starch Tray and Moulds Starch Moulds.—These are little plaster of Paris casts, which are used for making impressions in starch when moulding fondants. Several are generally fixed together on a strip of wood. If these are not to be had, impressions may be made in the starch with the end of a spoon, the stopper of a bottle, or seal, or thimble, &c. Nougat Frames.—Small wooden frames which are used for shaping nougat and other sweets. They are not expensive. Rubber Mats.—These are also used for moulding fondants, &c. They are somewhat costly. Marzipan Moulds.—Little fancy moulds used when making up marzipan in various shapes. The simple ones are made of tin, very small, and in a variety of patterns. Others are double, made of a special metal mounted on plaster of Paris. Saccharometer or P6se Syrop. —An instrument used for measur- ing the exact quantity of sugar in a syrup. It is only necessary in the higher branches of confection- ery, where a very accurate test is required. It consists of a glass tube with a bulb at the end con- taining quicksilver. The tube is marked off in degrees from 0° to 50°, and, contrary to the ther- mometer, it reads from the top downwards. The syrup that is being tested should be put into a tin or glass test tube, or a tall narrow bottle will do, and the saccharometer dropped into it. Sundries.—A hair sieve, a gill and pint measure, 2 or 3 wooden spoons, 1 large and 1 small pointed Saccharometer knife, a palette knife, 1 or 2 egg brushes, and a rolling-pin will all be found useful in the sweet-maker’s outfit. MATERIALS FOR SWEET MAKING Sugar.—Must be of the best quality, and for the finer sweets cane sugar only should be used. Good granulated sugar is suitable for most kinds of sweets. Buy it from a reliable grocer and store it in a dry place. Glucose, or starch sugar, is used in various sweets to prevent the sugar graining and to make them keep. It is quite wholesome, and has no unpleasant taste. Chocolate.—Both sweetened and unsweetened chocolate will be required. Buy a good quality of plain chocolate, but not necessarily an expen- sive one. Butter.—Choose a good quality, and for the finer sweets fresh butter will be required. Cocoa Butter.—This is melted and added to chocolate to make it of the right consistency for coating. Colourings.—Pure vegetable colourings are the best to use. Carmine, green, yellow, coffee-brown, and blue are useful colours to have. Essences.—Buy these in as concentrated a form as possible. Almond, ginger, lemon, orange, rose, and vanilla are useful ones to have. Gelatine.—Use French sheet gelatine or other of a good make, and without a gluey taste. Ir is better always to keep to the same make, as they vary somewhat in strength. Cream of Tartar and Tartaric Acid.—These are sometimes used instead of glucose to prevent sugar graining. Lemon juice and acetic acid can be used in the same way. Starch.—This is used principally for moulding sweets. What is known as confectioner’s starch should be bought. It must be kept in a warm place, and dried and sieved before use. Nuts.—When possible it is best to buy these ready shelled. Most nuts are improved by toast- ing a few minutes in the oven before they are used, as this helps to bring out the flavour. Italian chestnuts are the best for marrons glacis. Wax Paper and Grease-proof Paper.—Both these are useful in sweet making—the former for wrap- ping up sweets, as it does not stick to them, the latter for fining trays on which sweets are dried, and also for fining boxes. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR BOILING SUGAR The boiling of sugar is one of the niceties of cookery, and it requires some practice to gain the requisite skill. A proper knowledge of sugar boiling is necessary, not only for the making of bon-bons, but also for the manufacture of many fancy sweets for dessert, such as nougat baskets, spun sugar, crystallising of fruit and flowers, &c. If sugar boiling is carried on to any extent a thermometer should be used, as without this it is almost impossible for the amateur to arrive at any degree of accuracy. A thermometer will pay itself over and over again by avoiding failures and possible loss of good material. There are other means of testing the degree to which sugar is boiled and for which directions are given below, but these require far more skill than the use of the thermometer, and are more suited to the professional than the amateur. Sugar is boiled to different stages or degrees according to the purpose for which it is required. It passes very quickly from one stage to the other.