224 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD bring to the boil and simmer slowly from 6 to 10 hours or until tender. The tripe must be kept covered with water, more being added if necessary. When sufficiently cooked, put it into a basin, cover it rvith the Liquid in which it was cooked, and set it aside until next day, when it can be made up in any way that is wished. Note.—The liquid in which tripe is cooked should never be thrown away, as it contains a considerable amount of nourishment. 885. Tripe with Onions (Tripes a 1’Anglaise) 1 lb. prepared tripe. 2 Spanish onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. I pt. tripe liquor. 1 gill milk. SMt. Pepper. Sippets of toast. Prepare the tripe as directed above, cooking along with it for the last 2 hours, the Spanish onions, peeled, scalded, and cut in quarters. When both tripe and onions are quite tender, cut the tripe in small neat pieces and chop the onions. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and when well mixed strain in 4 pint of liquor from the tripe. Stir until boiling, season to taste with pepper and salt, add the milk and tripe, and simmer all together for about 15 minutes. Serve in a hot dish and garnish with sippets of toast or small potato balls. Note.—The addition of 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream will be found an improvement to this dish, or the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little lemon juice stirred in at the last. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 886. Baked Tripe 1 lb. cooked tripe. 2 or 3 slices bread and butter. Seasoning. 1 egg. J pt. milk or tripe liquor. A little butter. The tripe must be well cooked and tender (see Recipe 884). Cut it into small pieces and season with white pepper and salt. Cut the bread and butter in finger-shaped pieces, removing the crust. Then grease a pie dish and place in it a layer of tripe and a layer of bread and butter alternately until all is in, making the topmost layer bread and butter. Beat up the egg and add to it the milk or tripe liquor, and strain this over the tripe and bread. Wipe round the edges of the dish, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until the liquid is set and the top nicely browned. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 887. Fried Tripe (Tripes Frites) 1 lb. cooked tripe. Salt. Pepper. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. Juice of | lemon. A little flour. Beaten egg. Bread-crumbs. The tripe used for frying must first be carefully prepared and cooked until it is quite tender. The blanket and honeycomb tripe are the best to use. Cut it into strips from 3 to 4 inches long and about 2 inches wide. Then mix on a soup plate the oil. chopped onion, and strained juice of \ a lemon. Put the pieces of tripe into this and season them with pepper and salt. Allow the pieces to mari- nate for one hour at least, turning them over occasionally so that they become thoroughly seasoned with the different ingredients. When re- quired, lift out the pieces of tripe and drain them on paper, or wipe them with a towel. Now coat them lightly with sifted flour and then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249). Fry the tripe in boiling fat until prettily browned, drain again on paper and serve piled up on a hot dish, garnishing with parsley. Maitre d’hotel or other savoury butter and potato chips or ribbons should be served separately. Note.—The tripe may be dipped into frying batter (Recipe 1861) instead of being egged and bread-crumbed. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 888. Curried Tripe 1 lb. prepared tripe. 3 table - sps. minced onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. flour. \ pt. white stock. 1 gill milk. Seasoning. Boiled rice. Cut the tripe, previously cooked until tender, into small neat pieces. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, put in the minced onion, and cook it slowly over the fire until it is beginning to turn brown. Add the curry powder and flour and mix all together with an iron spoon. Then pour in the stock and milk, stir until boiling, and season to taste. Put the tripe into this sauce and allow it to simmer by the side of the fire from 15 to 20 minutes. Then serve very hot with some nicely boiled rice. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 889. Tripe with Oysters (Tripes aux Huitres) 1 lb. tripe. 1 oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. flour. 2 doz. tinned oysters. 1| gills milk. 1 gill oyster liquor. Salt. Pepper. Cook th e tripe until thoroughly tender, as directed in Recipe 884, and cut it in strips or small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, cover the saucepan and let the onion cook by the side of the fire until soft, but not brown. When ready, add the flour and mix until, smooth, then add the milk and 1 gill of strained oyster liquor and stir until boiling. Now put in the tripe, season with pepper and salt, and simmer for a few minutes. Lastly, add the oysters, either whole or cut in halves. Serve in a deep dish and garnish. with small sippets of toast. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 890. Tripe with Tomatoes (Tripes a lTtalienne) I \ lbs. prepared tripe. II oz. butter. 1 cupful tomato sauce. 2 table - sps. grated cheese. \ lb. fresh mushrooms. Stock. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. Seasoning. Cut the prepared tripe into narrow strips or small square pieces. Put it into a stewpan with