COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 514 mix it with some chopped pickles, curry powder, and a little Worcester sauce. Put some of this mixture between two rounds of bread, and brown in the oven. 2402. Croutes a la Marguerite 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 table-sp. white sauce or cream. | tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Seasoning. 6 anchovy fillets. 6 fried bread croutes. Cut a hard-boiled egg in slices about J of an inch in thickness, remove the yolk, take half a dozen of the best white rings and trim them neatly. Now take all the yolk and other scraps of egg and pound them with the white sauce or cream, using enough to make a softish paste. Season with the anchovy essence, pepper and salt, and rub all through a sieve. Spread some of this mixture on small round croutes of fried bread or hot buttered toast, and lay a ring of white of egg on the top. Now take small fillets of anchovy, curl them round, and put one in the centre of each croute. Cover the anchovy with more of the egg mixture, lay a piece of greased paper on the top, and heat through in the oven. Serve hot, garnished with small sprigs of parsley. PART III SOME MORE SUBSTANTIAL SAVOURIES 2403. African Baked Beans | lb. haricot beans. I 1 table-sp. golden syrup. 2 or 3 oz. bacon. | Salt. Pepper. Cook the beans until they are quite tender (see Recipe 613), and have the bacon cut in small thin slices. Take a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, and arrange in it the beans and bacon in layers, seasoning them with pepper, and keeping a layer of bacon for the top. Pour the syrup over, place on the last layer of bacon, stand a few minutes, and bake in a moderate oven. Note.—Either cooked or uncooked bacon may be used, but the latter is best. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. 2404. Bacon and Greens 1 lb. cooked greens. Some rashers of bacon. Any cooked greens may be used, such as cabbage, turnip tops, Brussels sprouts, spinach, &c., but any water or liquid must be well drained from them. Chop them finely, removing any hard pieces of stalk, and season with pepper and a very small quantity of salt, if necessary, always bearing in mind that the bacon is salt. Now prepare and fry some rashers of bacon ; rather under- than over-cook them, and keep them warm. Then fry the greens in the fat left from the bacon, and, when very hot, press them quickly into a greased basin so as to take the form. Unmould on a hot dish, and arrange the rashers of bacon round. 2405. Bloater Fillets on Toast 1 or 2 bloaters. I Parmesan cheese. Butter. Pepper. | Toast. Chopped parsley. Bone one or two bloaters carefully and cut them in neat and small fillets. Lay these fillets on a plate with some melted butter, season them with pepper, and let them he for a few minutes. Mean- while prepare some hot buttered toast, cutting it in finger-shaped pieces and sprinkling them with grated cheese. Keep these warm in the oven, grill the fillets of bloater until thoroughly cooked, and then lay one or two on the top of each piece of toast Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley or more grated cheese, and serve very hot. 2406. Cabbage Rolls 1 cabbage. | lb. cooked meat. 2 or 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. sauce. Seasoning. 4 egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A little butter. I pt. stock. Choose some nice tender leaves from the inside of the cabbage. Wash them and scald them in boding salted water a minute or two. Then drain them, and spread them out on a cloth to dry. Mince the meat, mix it with the bread-crumbs, and season to taste. Moisten with 1 dessert-spoonful of good brown or tomato sauce and about \ a beaten egg or 1 yolk of egg. Put some of this stuffing on each leaf of cabbage and make up in little rolls. Tie with string, and coat lightly with flour. Melt a small quantity of butter in a stewpan when smoking hot, put in the cabbage rolls and brown them slightly on all sides. Then pour in the stock, put the lid on the pan, and cook in the oven or the top of the stove until tender. When ready, arrango the cabbage rolls neatly on a hot dish, removing the strings, and pour the gravy over. Note.—If liked, a little grated cheese may be added to the stuffing. 2407. Cheese Custard 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. \ tea-sp. mustard. 3 oz. Cheddar or Gruyere cheese. Cayenne pepper and salt. Beat up the eggs with the mustard, pepper and salt. Heat the milk and pour it on to them. Add the cheese and pour all into a greased pie dish, sprinkle a little more cheese over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for \ hour. Serve hot with plain biscuits. 2408. Cheese Fondue (Fondue au Fromage) 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 1J oz. bread-crumbs. A little made mustard. 1 gill of milk. 2 eggs. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of cayenne. Put the bread-crumbs and butter into a basin, boil the milk, and pour it over them. Add the cheese (keeping back about 1 dessert-spoonful), yolks of eggs, and seasonings, and mix well. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them