COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 94 3 oe 4 persons. . broiled, and must on no account be boiled. 237. Stuffed and Baked Plaice (Plie Farcie au Four) 1 plaice size. Stuffing. of medium 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. 1 oz. dripping or butter. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scraping the skin well from tail to head. Cut off the fins and the head, and dry the fish in a cloth. Make the stuffing according to directions given under Recipe 1266. Make a slit down the centre of the fish on the black skin side, and right down to the bone. Slip in the knife close to the bone, and raise up the flesh on both sides, making pockets, so to speak. Put the stuffing into this, and pile it rather high in the centre. Melt the dripping or butter in a Yorkshire pudding tin, and lay the fish on to it. Brush over with the melted fat, and sprinkle with the browned bread-crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven from 20 to 30 minutes, basting occasionally to prevent the fish becoming dry. The fish will be ready when the skin begins to crack. Lift carefully on to a hot dish, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Tomato, anchovy, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately or poured round. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 238. Fillets of Plaice with Green Peas 2 filleted plaice. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. fish stock. J pt. good fish sauce. | pt. cooked green peas. 1 hard-boiled yolk. Fold the fillets neatly as directed in Recipe 253, place them on a greased baking tin with the butter and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls fish stock. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, cover with greased paper and cook in the oven from 10 to 15 minutes. When ready, dish the pieces of fish in a circle, one leaning against the other. Have ready a good fish sauce, made with stock from the bones (see p. 78), and strain the liquor from the baking tin into it. Pour this sauce over and round the fish, serve the cooked green peas in the centre, and garnish with a little yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. Mullet, Red (Rouget) This little fish is greatly esteemed : it is very elegant in form, and of a bright rose colour. It is Red Mullet called the woodcock of the sea ; the flesh is firm and white, and of a very good flavour. The fiver of the red mullet is considered a great delicacy, and is generally left in the fish. It is best baked or 239. Red Mullet, To Bake 1 or 2 red mullet. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Pepper. Salt. 1 or 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Choose one large or two small red mullets, clean and prepare them carefully and score the skin across on both sides. Grease a fireproof dish, sprinkle it with some of the parsley and bread- crumbs, and lay the fish on the top. Season with pepper, salt, and the lemon juice, and sprinkle with the rest of the parsley and bread-crumbs. Lay on the butter in small pieces, and bake the fish in a moderate oven until ready. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 240. Red Mullets, To Grill (Rougets Grilles) 3 red mullets. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 2 table-sps. salad oil or Pepper and salt. melted butter. Prepare the fish carefully, wipe them dry in a cloth, and score the skin across on both sides, at about one inch intervals. Mix the oil, lemon juice, and seasoning on a plate, and let the fish fie in this about half an hour, turning them occasionally. Then grill them according to directions given on p. 79, and when ready put them on a very hot dish. Serve with a pat of maitre d’h6tel butter on the top of each or with tartare or bearnaise sauce. Note.—Oiled straws are sometimes laid on the grill to prevent the fish from sticking, or the fish can be wrapped in a piece of well-oiled paper. The skin of this fish is so delicate, it is easily disfigured unless care is taken. Time to grill, 8 to 10 minutes. 241. Red Mullet au Gratin (Rougets au Gratin) 2 red mullet. 4 glass white wine. 1 tea-sp. ketchup. 1 tea-sp. anchovy sauce. 6 button mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 shallot. Grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. Salte. Ppper. Choose fairly large fish. Wash and cleanse them, handling them as lightly as possible. As a rule they are not drawn, but this is really a matter of taste. When the gills are removed the small in- testine part can be drawn away with them. The fiver, which is a delicacy, should, in any case, be left in the fish. Chop the shallot and mushrooms, and mix them with the parsley, a little grated lemon rind, pepper and salt. Grease a fireproof diah and sprinkle over it half of these chopped ingredients. Score the fish across once or twice with a knife, and lay them on the top, placing them head to tail, sprinkle the remainder of the chopped ingredients over, and cover with browned bread- crumbs. Mix the wine, ketchup, and anchovy sauce together, and pour them round the sides. Lay on the remainder of the butter in small pieces, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish is ready. Wipe the dish, and garnish with parsley before serving. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for