326 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD liked, a pinch of nutmeg, and put a little more cream or sauce on the top. Stand the dishes in a tin with enough hot water to come halfway up the sides, and cook in the oven from 5 to 7 minutes, or until the eggs are set. Serve at once with strips Fireproof Cocottes salt, and place them in a tin or saucepan with a little warm water round them. Place this over the fife until the water begins to boil, then cook in the oven until the eggs are set. jSauce.—Thin down the remainder of the sauce if necessary, and colour it green with some very fine spinach puree. (If a small quantity of tarragon and chervil can be mixed with the spinach, it will give the sauce a better flavour.) Season to taste, and add a small piece of butter at the last. To Serve.—Turn out the little spinach moulds on a hot dish, unmould the eggs and place one on the top of each, then pour the sauoe over, coating the eggs well. Probable cost, Is. 3d. of toast or toast biscuits. Eggs en cocottes must not be cooked until the last minute, as they would spoil with standing. Note.—This dish may be varied by putting a little chopped ham, tongue, mushroom, &c., at the bottom of the dish ; or grated cheese may be sprinkled both above and below the egg. 1401. Moulded Eggs 5 eggs. 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 5 rounds hot buttered toast. Take five ramekin cases or dariole moulds and grease them carefully with clarified butter. Chop the ham finely, mix it with the chopped parsley, and coat the moulds with this mixture. Then break a fresh egg carefully into each, and season with pepper and salt. Pour about a tea-spoonful of cream over each, and put a small piece of butter on the top. Place the moulds in a tin with hot water to reach halfway up the sides, and poach in the oven until set. Have ready five neat rounds of hot buttered toast, turn the eggs out on the top of these, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. A little tomato sauce may be poured round. Notes.—Lightly browned bread-crumbs may be used instead of the ham and parsley. The toast may be spread with a little savoury paste or butter. Probable cost, Is. 1402. Eggs a la Tzarina (OEufs a la Tzarina) 6 eggs. 1 lb. spinach. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. \ pt. white or bechamel sauce. Seasoning. \ oz. butter. Prepare and cook the spinach as directed in Recipe 529, press it as dry as possible, and rub it through a fine sieve. Reserve about 1 table- spoonful of this puree for the sauce, and put the remainder into a saucepan with the butter. Cook for a minute or two over the fire to dry up any surplus moisture, mix in I or 2 table-spoonfuls of thick white or bechamel sauce, and bring to the boil. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the yolks of eggs, and season to taste. Grease half a dozen tartlet tins, fill them with the spinach mixture, and poach carefully until firm to the touch. The Eggs.—Grease six dariole moulds, break an egg carefully into each, season with pepper and 1403. CEufs Mollets (Soft-boiled Eggs) These are similar to poached eggs, only they are cooked in their shells. The eggs must be very fresh. Place them in boiling water, and let them boil steadily for 5 minutes. Then lift them out, and let them lie in cold water for 10 minutes. Remove the shells very carefully, and if the eggs are not required at once put them back in the cold water. If to be served hot, reheat them in hot and slightly salted water, or in hot stock or milk. These may be served according to any of the directions given for poached eggs. 1404. (Eufs Mollets & 1'Allemande 6 eggs. 6 croutes of bread i Allemande sauce. Melted butter. | Cooked spinach. Cook and shell the eggs as directed above, and keep them warm in hot water slightly salted. Prepare six oval croutons of bread, J-inch thick and a little longer than the length of the egg, and hollow them out in the centre. Dip them in melted butter, and brown them in the oven. Have ready also some allemande sauce (Recipe 706) and some well-cooked spinach. To Serve.—Place the eggs on the bread croutes, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Pile the spinach in the centre, and pour the sauce over the eggs and round the dish. Note.—This dish admits of many variations by using different sauces and different vegetable purges. A nice savoury mince may also be put in the croute before placing on the egg. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1405. (Eufs Mollets & la Diable 6 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill brown stock. 1 dessert-sp. Worcester sauce. 2 table - sps. tomato puree. 1 dessert - sp. chopped chutney. 1 table-sp. ketchup. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. Cook and shell the eggs as directed above, reheat them, place them on a hot dish, and strain over them the following sauce. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and blend the flour with it. Pour in the stock, and stir until boiling. Add the seasonings, regulating them according to taste. Allow the sauce to simmer for 10 minutes and it will be ready. Notes.—The eggs may, if liked, be placed OO