SWEET MAKING Sweet making has become quite a popular home occupation, and many ladies take it up as a hobby, especially those who work for charity sales and bazaars. Home-made sweets always sell quickly if they are well made and daintily packed, and there is often more profit to be made on them than on elaborate sewing and fancy work, which entail so much time and labour. Pure and wholesome sweets have also a distinct value in our dietary, and many of them, besides being dainties, are articles of nutrition as well. It is quite a mistake to think that it is only the professional confectioner who can turn out dainty sweets ; quite a number of pretty and attractive ones can be made quite easily by amateurs, provided that the recipes are followed with care and accuracy. Anyone desirous of taking up the higher branches of sweet making, however, is strongly recommended to have a few lessons from a good teacher, in order to master the mysteries of sugar boiling, fondant making, and such like. In the making of many sweets, success depends to a great extent upon boiling sugar to the right degree, and when this is thoroughly understood, the more elaborate recipes should present no difficulty. This section does not presume to be a complete treatise on sweet making, space does not allow of so much attention being given to the subject, but a fairly representative selection of the different kinds of sweets has been given, along with many useful hints and instructions, and it is to be hoped that the reader who tries them will be induced to invent other nov PART I VARIOUS PRELIMINARIES UTENSILS FOR SWEET MAKING The number of utensils required for sweet making depends very much upon the extent to which the art is to be carried on. Quite a number of simple and pretty sweets, such as toffees, candies, tablets, marzipan sweets, &c., may be made with the ordi- nary kitchen utensils. If, however, sweet making is to be done frequently, it is much better to have a separate set of appliances, and to keep them for this special purpose only. Sweet making is such a delicate operation, that, unless the saucepans, spoons, &c., are perfectly free from grease or any special odour, the results are bound to be unsatisfactory. Scrupulous cleanliness must be observed through- out. The set of appliances does not require to be elaborate, in fact it is much better for the amateur to commence with the few which are absolutely necessary, and to add others as her art develops. A Sugar Thermometer.—Endless trouble can be saved by the use of this instrument, and without it, it is almost impossible to arrive at accuracy. A very good thermometer with a metal frame can now be bought for 5s. 6d. It should register not less than 350° F. It must never be plunged directly into boiling hot syrup, but should be heated first in a jug of hot water. After use it should be again put back into the hot water to prevent any sugary substance from hardening on it, and then carefully washed when finished with. Unless it is kept quite free from hard sugar, it is very apt to grain the sugar or syrup into which it is put. When not in use, keep it hanging up. If at any time the little thread of mercury should break in two, give the ther- mometer a shake downward until the pieces join together again. les of her own. A Marble Slab.—This is rather an expensive item if it has to be bought specially; it will cost from 7s. to 8s. for quite a small one. The top of a marble washstand, if it is scoured, will however serve the purpose very well, or even a large dish, if only a small quantity of the sweet mixture is being made. In very cold weather the marble should be warmed before boiling-hot syrup is poured on to it, other- wise it is liable to crack. Saucepans.—One large and two smaller ones will be sufficient to begin with. Aluminium ones are perhaps the best kind to use; they are not nearly so expensive as they used to be, and they wear well. Copper, steel, strong enamel, or suicated iron saucepans are also very good. A Wire Ring and Fork.—These are very neces- sary for dipping sweets into various coatings, and they can be bought for a few pence. Wooden Spatula.—This is better than a spoon for mixing up fondant and many other sweets. A Sugar Scraper.—A strip of tin rolled round at one end to form a handle. It is not essential, but is very useful for scraping together marzipan, fondant, &c., when working them on the marble slab. A palate knife can be used in its place. Tins.—Two or three flat sheets of bright tin are very useful for drying sweets. They can be ob- tained from any tinsmith for a trifling sum. One or two deeper tins for setting toffee, &c., will also be required. Candy Bars.—These are not absolutely neces- sary, but they are useful for making spaces of various sizes on the marble slab, into which the caramel and such-like mixtures may be poured for setting. They can take the place of the deeper tins. Weights and Scales.—The ordinary kitchen set will do, as long as it is accurate. Cream Rings.—Little rings of tin which are placed on a marble slab and used for moulding peppermint and other creams.