COLD MEAT REDRESSED 25§ Mix the minced meat in a basin with the sauce, adding the nutmeg, parsley, a little grated lemon rind, and, if necessary, more seasoning. Then grease a pie-dish or fireproof dish, and put into it alternate layers of the meat mixture and spaghetti. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, put the butter on in small pieces, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Other kinds of white meat may be used in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1061. Sausages with Carrots 4 or 5 cooked sausages. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 cupful brown sauce or gravy. Lemon juice. 2 or 3 cooked carrots. A little butter. Seasoning. Remove the skins from some cold cooked sausages, and cut them in three or four pieces ac- cording to size. Egg and bread-crumb these pieces, and fry them a nice brown colour in boiling fat. Now take 2 or 3 cooked carrots and mince them rather finely, but do not mash them. Re-heat them in a saucepan with a little butter, or 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls cream, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Arrange this carrot mixture in the centre of a hot dish, with the pieces of sausage leaning against it in a circle, pour the gravy or some thin brown sauce round, and make all thoroughly hot in the oven. Note.—Pickled pork cut in small pieces or cooked tongue may be used instead of sausage. 1062. Veal Cake (Gateau de Veau) £ lb. cooked veal. 4 to 6 oz. sausage meat. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 Egg. 1 gill stock or gravy. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. Brown or tomato sauce. Prepare and mince the veal finely and remove the skins from the sausage meat. Put both into a basin with the bread-crumbs and seasoning and mix well. Moisten with a beaten egg and stock or gravy and mix again. Grease carefully a plain mould or strong basin and coat the inside with the browned bread-crumbs, fill up with the mixture, and cover with greased paper. Then bake in a good oven until well cooked and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with brown or tomato sauce poured round. Fried potatoes would make a nice accompaniment to this dish. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1063. Creamed Veal £ lb. cooked veal. 1 oz. butter. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. flour. £ pt. white stock. A bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream. £ lemon. 1 hard-boiled egg. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to brown. Add the flour and cook it a minute or two, then pour in the stock and stir until boil- ing. Season with white pepper and salt, put in the bunch of herbs, and let this sauce simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Then strain it into another saucepan, and add the veal finely minced. Heat thoroughly without letting it boil, and add the, cream and a squeeze of lemon juice at the last. Serve the mince in a hot dish, and garnish with small pieces of hard-boiled egg and cut lemon. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1064. Fricasse6 of Cooked Veal | lb. cold cooked veal. £ pt. veloute sauce. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Juice of £ lemon. 2 yolks of eggs. Rolls of bacon. Croutons of pastry or fried bread. Cut the remains of cooked veal into small neat pieces, free from skin and gristle. Warm the veloute sauce (see Recipe 673), and put the meat into it. Season with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Let all warm for a short time without boiling, then just before serving stir in the yolks of eggs mixed with the strained lemon juice and the finely chopped parsley. Serve in a hot entree dish, and garnish with small rolls of bacon and a few pretty croutons. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1065. Scrambled Veal and Tomatoes £ lb. cooked veal. 2 eggs. ♦ 1 cupful tomato puree. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. 1 or 2 slices of toast. Remove all skin and gristle from the veal, then weigh it and chop it finely or put it through the mincing machine. Either fresh or tinned tomatoes may be used; rub them through a wire or hair sieve in order to get a puree. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan, add the puree, meat, eggs slightly beaten, pepper, and salt. Mix quickly over the fire until thoroughly hot and thick. Serve on neat pieces of toast or fried bread, and garnish with small sprigs of parsley. 1066. Creamed Veal with Spinach Seasoning. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. A little butter. £ lb. cooked veal. 1 large cupful cooked spinach. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 cupful white sauce. Trim the veal and cut it in fine shreds, or, if very scrappy, put it through the mincing machine. Take the remains of some cooked spinach well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Have ready also a cupful of thick white sauce, and 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Now grease a pie- dish or fireproof dish, and put the different ingredi- ents into it in layers—first, some of the veal with a little of the spinach over, then a few slices of egg, and some sauce over that. Repeat these layers until all is in, making the last layer sauce. Sprinkle the top with browned bread-crumbs, place a few pieces of butter here and there, and place in a moderate oven until thoroughly hot, and nicely browned on the top. Note.—Other green vegetables may be used instead of the spinach, such as cabbage, Brussels sprouts, or cauliflower, finely chopped.