556 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2648. Brown Bread If lbs. brown meal. 2 gills water. 1 gill milk. | oz. German yeast. 2 tea-sps. salt. 1 oz. butter. Either fine, coarse, or medium whole meal may be used, or a lighter bread will be obtained by using half brown meal and half ordinary household flour. Put the meal into a warm, dry basin, rub in the small piece of butter until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Mix the yeast with the salt until smooth and creamy. Make tHe milk and water tepid, pour them on to the yeast and then strain them into the centre of the flour. Make a “ sponge ”—that is, mix a little of the meal into the liquid with the tips of the fingers until of the consistency of batter. Cover the basin, and set it in a warm place until the sponge is covered with air-bubbles. Then work in the rest of the meal, using more warm milk or water if necessary. The dough should be made softer than for white bread, and it will not require so much kneading. Work it up quickly and lightly, and put it at once into greased and floured bread tins. Brown bread is always better if made in small loaves, and the tins should not be more than half filled. Set them in a warm place to rise (about 1 hour), and then bake them in a good oven in the same way as white bread. Note.—A little sugar may be added to the bread if wished. The butter may be omitted, and water only used for the mixing. Probable cost, 6d. 2649. Hovis Bread 3£ lbs. Hovis flour. 1 1 qt. warm water. l| oz. German yeast. | 4 tea-sp. castor sugar. Put the flour into a large basin or baking pan, warm it slightly and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast with the sugar, add a little of the water, and strain into the middle of the flour. Add the rest of the water by degrees until a soft dough or thickish batter is formed, mix well, but do not attempt to mould or knead it. Half fill warmed tins that have been greased and dusted out with Hovis flour, and set them in a warm place until the dough has risen to the top of the tins; from 20 to 30 minutes should be allowed. Then bake in a steady oven, allowing rather longer than for ordinary bread, and testing it in the usual way. Use no salt in the making of this bread. 2650. Currant Loaf 2 lbs. bread dough. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. | lb. butter. 2 oz. candied peel. | lb. currants. Make the dough according to Recipe 2646, or it may be bought ready made from the bakers. Put into a warm basin, add to it the butter melted, the currants carefully picked and cleaned, the candied peel finely shred, and the spice. Knead all together until thoroughly mixed. Then half fill a greased and floured cake tin with the dough, cover over and set the loaf in a warm place to rise for about an hour. Bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. When nearly ready, glaze the top with a syrup of sugar and water. Time to bake, 1 to 1| hours. 10d. to 1«. Probable cost, 2651. Sultana Bread 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. salt. £ lb. sultanas. .1 pt. warm milk. | oz. yeast. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the sultanas carefully picked and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast in a smaller basin with the sugar, add the warm milk, and strain all into the centre of the flour, &c. Mix in a little of the dry mixture from the sides until a thickish batter is formed, cover the basin, and let it stand in a warm place about | hour. Then mix all into a soft dough, turn out on a floured board, and knead for a few minutes. Put the dough into a greased and floured tin, and place it in a warm place to rise. When well risen, bake in a hot oven. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hours. Probable cost. Id. 2652. Vienna Bread 1 lb. Vienna flour. 1 tea-sp. sugar. £ oz. German yeast. 1 oz. butter. Milk. 1 tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a warm basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast in a smaller basin with the sugar, heat the milk to a lukewarm tem- perature, and pour it on to it. Strain this into the middle of the flour, and mix lightly. Beat all together for a few minutes until the dough leaves the sides of the basin quite clear. Then sprinkle it lightly with flour, and score it across with a knife. Cover the basin, and put the dough to rise for about 2 hours. When the dough is well risen, turn it out on a floured board, re-knead it lightly, and make it up into small rolls or a variety of fancy shapes. One of the prettiest shapes is the horseshoe twist, Horse-Shoe Twist which is made as follows : Roll out some of the dough to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut it into triangular-shaped pieces. Then take the two corners A and B at the base of the triangle, and roll up each piece until point C turns over on the outside. Another shape is to make small round rolls, and then to cut two slits across the top with a very sharp knife. Place the rolls on a greased and floured tin, and set them in a warm place to prove for about twelve minutes. Then bake in a rather quick oven until they are sufficiently cooked ; the time will vary according