FISH 119 the mixture into a greased pie dish or souffle dish, and bake in a moderate oven about | hour. The souffle must be nicely browned and well risen. Serve at once, and in the dish in which it waa baked. Time, about | hour to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 362. Fish and Potato Souf&6s 1 cupful cooked fish. 2 or 3 table-sps. good white sauce. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked potato. 1 table-sp. milk or cream. 1 egg- A pinch of nutmeg. Grated Parmesan. Use any tender white fish and break it into flakes or small pieces free from skin and bone. Take 5 or 6 small souffle dishes, grease them, and put a little fish at the foot of each. Next pour in some good white sauce, such as bechamel or veloute, and enough to moisten the fish. Then sieve the potato, which must be very dry and mealy, and heat it in a saucepan with the butter and a table- spoonful of milk or cream. Beat well until per- fectly smooth, and season with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Now stir in the yolk of egg, and lastly, and very lightly, the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Fill up the souffle cases with this potato pur6e, sprinkle grated Parmesan over the top, and bake in a moderate oven until risen and nicely browned. Then serve at once. Note.—If preferred, this may be cooked in one large souffle dish. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 souffles. 363. Potato and Fish Timbale (Timbale de Poisson) \ lb. cooked potato. I yolk of egg. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. white bread- crumbs. £ lb. cooked fish. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Sieve the potatoes, add to them the butter melted, the yolk of egg, cheese, and seasonings. Mix well together, and if not sufficiently moist add a very little milk. Butter a basin or plain mould, and sprinkle it with the bread-crumbs. Line the bottom and sides with the potato mixture, keep- ing back a little for the top. Then remove all skin and bone from the fish, mix it with the white sauce, and add parsley and seasoning to taste. Hard-boiled egg cut in pieces, oysters, anchovy, or mushrooms may be added. The mixture must not be too moist. Put it into the prepared mould, and cover with the rest of the potato mixture. Make the top very smooth with a knife. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Place a hot dish on the top, invert the mould, and let it stand a few minutes. Then care- fully withdraw the mould. Serve plain or with some thin fish sauce poured round. Time to bake, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. PART VI SOME MORE ELABORATE FISH DISHES 364. Eels a la Poulette 2 lbs. eels. 1 or 2 onions. 2 bay-leaves. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. 1 gill vinegar. 1 gill white wine. 1 pt. cold water. (Anguilles a la Poulette) 1| oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Cleanse the eels, removing the skin if possible, and cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches in length. Put these into a saucepan of boiling water, boil 2 or 3 minutes, then strain through a colander and rinse the fish with cold water. Return the pieces of eel to the saucepan, add to them the vinegar, water, wine, bay-leaves, parsley, and onion cut in small pieces. Set the saucepan on the fire and bring the contents slowly to the boil, then draw to one side and simmer slowly until the fish is tender. When ready, lift the pieces out and keep them warm. Strain the liquid left in the saucepan, and use it for making the sauce. To Make the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, add the flour, and mix the two smoothly together with a wooden spoon. Then pour on the strained liquid—this should measure 3 gills, and any deficiency should be made up with fish or white stock—stir constantly until boiling and simmer 5 minutes. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the cream and add them slowly to the sauce, not letting it boil again. Add the lemon juice and more seasoning if necessary. Pour the sauce over the pieces of eel, masking them well, and garnish with a little chopped parsley, croutons of bread, or small potato balls. Time to stew, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 365. Timbale of Fish in Aspic (Timbale de Poisson en Aspic) 1 filleted sole or plaice. Aspic jelly. Chopped parsley. Hard-boiled yolk of egg. Coralline pepper. Chervil. Salad. Mixture. Trimmings of fish. Cooked prawns, shrimps, or lobster. 1 table-sp. mayonnaise sauce. 1 table-sp. thick cream. 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. Cook the filleted fish and press it very lightly between two plates until quite cold. Take a plain pint mould and line it very thinly with aspic jelly. Then cut the fish in small rounds with a cutter from 1 to H inches in diameter. Brush over one side of these rounds with liquid aspic, and decorate them prettily with chopped parsley, sieved yolk of egg, and coralline pepper. Allow the decoration to set and then arrange the pieces of fish on the bottom and sides of the mould, fixing them in posi- tion with liquid aspic. Small sprigs of chervil or rounds of thinly sliced tomato may be placed between the rounds of fish. When the mould is