VEGETABLES AND SALADS 139 When choosing a cauliflower select one with a close white head, as those that are green and yellow looking are inferior. It is a vegetable that may be cooked in a variety of ways, besides being very good in soup or cold en salade. and strain over the cauliflower. Sprinkle the rest of the bread-crumbs on the top, lay on the butter in small pieces and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 454. Steamed Cauliflower with White Sauce (Choufleur a la Sauce Blanche) I medium-sized cauliflower. J pt. white sauce. To Prepare the Cauliflower.—Select a fresh cauli- flower with a firm, close head. Trim ofl the thick part of the stalk and nearly all the leaves, leaving only a few of the smaller ones to protect the flower. Make a cut across the stalk in both directions with- out cutting through the flower, in order that it may cook more easily. Then wash the cauliflower in plenty of cold water, and let it lie for £ hour in fresh cold water, to which one tea-spoonful of vinegar has been added to draw out any insects. Rinse in fresh water and drain. To Cook the Cauliflower.—Put it into a steamer or double cooker and steam over plenty of hot water until it is tender but not broken. The time will depend on the age and size of the cauliflower. Or it may be boiled according to directions given for cooking cabbage, but the former is the better way. To Serve.—Make the sauce according to directions given in Recipe 671 and pour it into a hot vegetable dish, stand the cauliflower in the centre of it and serve very hot. A little chopped parsley may be sprinkled over, if liked. Unless the cauliflower is a bad colour, or has been broken in the cooking, the sauce should not be poured over it. Note.—Other sauces, such as hollandaise, be- chamel, veloute, &c., may be used if preferred; or the cauliflower may be served in a folded serviette and melted butter handed separately. Time to steam, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 455. Cauliflower au Gratin (Choufleur au Gratin) 1 gill water. Cayenne. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 cooked cauliflower. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. cream. Prepare and cook the cauliflower as above and press it into a dome shape in a fireproof dish. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix these two smoothly together with a wooden spoon. Then pour in the water, and stir until boiling. Add the cream seasoning, and rather more than half the cheese. Mix well, and pour this sauce over the cauliflower. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese over the top, and brown in a quick oven, or under the grill of a gas stove. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 456. Baked Cauliflower, 1 (Choufleur au Four) 1 cooked cauliflower. I 1 egg. 1 gill milk. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. | Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Grease a fireproof dish and sprinkle in half the bread-crumbs. Break the cauliflower in small pieces and arrange them neatly in the dish. Beat up the egg in a cup or small basin with the milk, add a little salt, pepper, and a pinch of nutmeg, 457. Baked Cauliflower, 2 1 cauliflower. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. Salt, pepper. A little nutmeg. 3 table-sps. grated cheese. | pt. white sauce. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Cook the cauliflower and break it up in little pieces. Grease a fireproof baking dish and lay in it half the cauliflower, sprinkle over some of the cheese, chopped onion, and bread-crumbs, and season with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Then put in the rest of the cauliflower and more bread-crumbs, cheese, &c. Have ready about 1 pint of good white sauce, add to it the yolks of eggs, and pour this over the contents of the dish. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs and bake in a good oven until brown. 458. Cauliflower Cake (Pain de Choufleur) 2 cupfuls cooked cauli- flower. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 cupful milk or white stock. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. Seasoning. 2 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs. Put the bread-crumbs and stock or milk into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until they boil and thicken. Add the butter and cauliflower broken in small pieces and mix well. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs and seasoning to taste. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a plain mould or cake tin that has been greased and coated with browned bread-crumbs. Stand the mould on a baking tin with a little hot water round it, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve garnished with parsley or with tomato or hollandaise sauce poured round. Note.—If the cauliflower is mixed with sauce, less liquid must be used with the bread-crumbs. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 459. Cauliflower with Curry Sauce (Choufleur a l’lndienne) 1 cauliflower. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. \ pt. white sauce. 1 table-sp. cocoanut. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. Prepare and cook the cauliflower according to directions given in Recipe 454. Drain it and place it in a fireproof dish. Make l- pint good white sauce and add to it the curry powder and half the cheese. Pour this over the cauliflower, coating it well. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese mixed with the cocoanut on the top and brown quickly in a good oven. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.