351 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES small cork-shaped pieces, using a little flour to assist with the shaping. Roll out some pastry into a long strip 5 inches wide, and then cut it across into small oblong-shaped pieces 3 inches wide. Wet along both sides and one end of these pieces with cold water or beaten egg, and lay a portion of the chicken mixture in the centre of each. Double over first the dry end of the pastry, then the wetted one, making one well overlap the other. Mark two or three times across the top with the back of a knife, then press down the ends and mark them also. Place the rolls as they are ready on a greased baking tin, and brush them over with beaten egg. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is cooked and nicely browned. Serve hot, and garnish with parsley. Note.—If liked, the rolls may be sprinkled with some crushed vermicelli before being put in the oven. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. 1501. Chicken Roulettes Same mixture as for chicken and ham croquettes. A little cream. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Beaten egg. Roulette tins are tube-shaped, from 4 to 5 inches long and I inch in diameter. Grease the outside of five or six of these and cover them with pastry. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and then cut it into oblong-shaped pieces the length of the tins and wade enough to fold round them and overlap \ inch. Lay the tins on these pieces, brush one edge of the pastry with beaten egg, and fold it round the tin, pressing the edges well together. Place the roulettes on a greased baking tin with the joins downwards, brush over wdth beaten egg, and bake in a good oven from 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are nicely browned. When ready, remove them from the oven and slip the tins out of the pastry. Make the mixture according to Recipe 1052, thinning it down wdth a little cream. Make it quite hot and put it into a forcing bag, wdth a pipe about J inch in diameter at the end of it. Force the mixture into the rolls, and reheat in the oven for two or three minutes. Serve with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. 1502. Game Puffs Some cooked game. Puff pastry. Rich brown gravy. White of egg. Red currant jelly. Take the remains of any nicely cooked game and cut them into fine shreds or shavings. Moisten with a little rich gravy or any good sauce that has been served with the game, and mix in a little red-currant jelly. Roll out some puff pastry rather thinly and cut in rounds 4 or 5 inches in diameter. Put some of the prepared game in the centre of each, and finish off in the same way as Meat Puffs (Recipe 1498). Brush over with slightly beaten white of egg, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. 1503. Potato Pasties 1 cupful cooked meat. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. sauce or Potato pastry, gravy. Trim the meat and either chop it or cut it in small pieces. Then make some potato pastry as directed in Recipe 1448, and roll it out rather thinly. Cut out 10' or 12 rounds, and with these line 5 or 6 patty tins. Fill up the tins with the meat, add a little sauce or gravy to moisten, and season to taste. Moisten round the edges of the pastry, lining the tins, and lay the remaining rounds of pastry on the top. Press them well together, and mark round the edges. Then make a small hole in the top, and brush over with a little milk or beaten egg. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned, then remove the pasties carefully from the tins, and serve them very hot, garnished with a little parsley. Note.—Remains of cooked fish wdth a little fish sauce may be used instead of the meat mixture. 1504. Sausage Rolls i lb. sausage meat. Rough-puff pastry. A little flour. Beaten egg. Seasoning. If sausages are used, the skin must first be re- moved from them. Put the sausage meat on to a plate and, if necessary, add a little more seasoning, working it in with a knife. Then divide it into six or eight pieces, and with a little flour roll each portion into a cork-shaped piece. Roll out the quantity of pastry given in Recipe 1443 into a long strip about 5 inches wide and £ of an inch in thickness. Keep the pastry even at tbe edges. Cut it across into oblong-shaped pieces. Wet along both sides and one end of these pieces with cold water or beaten egg, and lay a roll of sausage meat in the centre of each. Double over first the dry end of the pastry, then the wetted one, making one end well overlap the other. Mark two or three times across the top with the back of a knife, then press down the ends and mark them also. Place the rolls as they are ready on a greased baking tin, and brush them over with beaten egg. Bake in a good oven until they are nicely browned and well cooked. Serve hot or cold, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—If liked, the sausage meat may be wrapped in a very thin slice of bacon before putting it inside the pastry. If these are used for break- fast, they should be baked the day before, and reheated or served cold in the morning. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 rolls. Probable cost, lOd. 1505. Cheese Tartlets (Croustades de Fromage) 2 table-sps. good white sauce. 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 1 or 2 eggs. Seasoning. Short crust. Take a small quantity of unsweetened short crust and roll it out very thinly. Cut it in rounds and line six or seven small greased patty tins. Prick them at the foot, and then three parts fill them with the following mixture: put the white sauce