369 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES boiling. Grate the rind from the orange and rub it into the sugar. Add this orange sugar to the cornflour with the strained juice and yolks of eggs. Cook the mixture for a minute or two longer over the fire, and then turn it into a basin to cool. Roll out some puff pastry into an oblong-shaped piece and rather thin. Spread one half of it with the above orange mixture, wet round the edges and fold the other piece of pastry over, pressing the two edges well together. Brush over the surface with slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge well with sugar. With a sharp knife cut the pastry into finger-shaped pieces, and place them carefully on a wetted baking tin. Bake in a good oven, and sprinkle again with sugar while still hot. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 8 to 10 slices. Probable cost, Id. each. 1584. Potato Cheese Cakes 3 oz. castor sugar. Rind and juice of 1 orange. Rind and juice of i lemon. 3 oz. cooked and sieved potato. 2 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 white of egg. Short crust. Grate the rind from one orange and half a lemon, and rub it well into the sugar. Then cream the butter in a basin, add the potato sugar and yolks of eggs, then the orange and lemon juice, and lastly the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Line some patty tins with pastry, three-quarters fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and well risen. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 12 to 15 cheese cakes. Probable cost, 9d. or lOd. 1583. Orange Tartlets (Petites Tartes d’Orange) Short crust. 1 large orange. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz, castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. 3 yolks of eggs. Line six or eight patty pans with short crust, and bake them in a quick oven until the pastry is just set. Meanwhile prepare the mixture for filling them. Grate the rind from the orange and reserve it. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the sugar, the strained juice of the orange, yolks of eggs, and brandy. Mix well for a few minutes, add the orange rind, and stir four or five minutes longer. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture and bake in a moderate oven until set. Take out, leave till cold, then serve either with or without a little whipped cream on the top. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. to ljd. each. 1585. Strawberry, Raspberry, or Red Currant Tartlets (Tartelettes de Fruits) \ pt. fruit. A little liqueur or any fruit syrup. | lb. sugar. 1 doz. tartlet cases. J gill water. Choose nice ripe fruit, pick it, and put it into a basin. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them to a syrup, but do not let them colour. Add a little liqueur, or some fruit syrup or essence to flavour. Pour this syrup over the fruit, and stand in a warm place for half hour. Then lift out the fruit carefully, place it in ready cooked tartlet cases, and pour one or two tea- spoonfuls of the syrup over. Serve either hot or cold. A spoonful of whipped cream may be put on the top of each just before serving. Note.—Nice ripe cherries may be used in the same way, but they must be stoned. Probable cost. Is.