336 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD some time before using it, then roll to the thickness required. This pastry will keep for several days in cold weather, if wrapped in a piece of well-greased paper. Note.—If salt butter has to be used, wash it first by kneading it in very cold water. Suitable for vol-au-vent, patties, mince pies, and various fancy dishes. Probable cost, lOd. 1448. Potato Pastry \ lb. of cooked pota- toes. £ lb. flour. 2 or 3 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. A little milk. Sieve the potatoes. They must be dry and mealy; it is impossible to make potato pastry with waxy potatoes. Sieve the flour into a basin, and rub in the butter or dripping until free from lumps. Then add the potatoes and salt, and mix together. Add enough milk to bind all together, or the yolk of an egg with a little milk may be used. Do not make the pastry too moist, and when it is formed into one lump turn it out on a floured board, and roll out at once, flouring the rolling-pin well. TTse as required. This pastry should be used at once, it will not keep. Note.—Potato pastry may also be made sweet by using less salt and adding about 1 table-spoonful of castor sugar. Probable cost, 3d. 1449. 3 oz. cornflour. J lb. butter. £ lb. flour. A squeeze of lemon juice Make in the same way as Short Crust, binding the dry ingredients together with the yolk of an egg mixed with a little milk or water. Suitable for lining dishes or tart rings and various sweet dishes. Probable cost, 7d. Cornflour Pastry 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. J tea-sp. baking powder. 1 yolk of egg. A little milk or water. 1450. Choux Pastry (Pate a Choux) \ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill of water' 1 oz. sugar. 3 or 4 eggs. A pinch of salt. A few drops of vanilla or other flavouring. Sieve the flour, which should be of the finest quality, and put it in a cool part of the oven to dry. Put the water, butter, sugar, and salt into a small stewpan, and bring them to the boil, but do not let them reduce in quantity. Draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and add the flour. Stir these well together over the fire with a wooden spoon until the paste is compact and dry, and does not adhere to the saucepan nor spoon. This is called a “ panada.” It should not be overcooked, or it will become oily. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the eggs, one at a time, beating each one in very thoroughly. Keep the paste at a medium thickness, not too soft, yet not too stiff, and only using the fourth egg if necessary. If the paste is too stiff, it will not rise properly ; and if too soft, it will spread and lose its shape. Add a few drops of flavouring, and, if time permits, cool before using. Suitable for eclaires, cream buns, and various fancy gateaux and fritters. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. castor sugar 1451. Cream Pastry Some cream (about 1 gill). A pinch of salt. Make according to the directions given for Short Crust (see Recipe 1439), using the cream to mix with instead of water. Suitable for fancy cakes or gateaux. Probable cost, 7d. PART II MEAT AND SAVOURY DISHES WITH PASTRY MEAT PIES Almost any kind of meat may be used for a pie— beef, mutton, veal, rabbit, poultry, or game. They may either be used separately, or two or three different kinds may be put together. Then all sorts of things may be put in to fill up the corners and to give flavour, such as hard-boiled eggs, mush- rooms, oysters, chopped onions, sliced potatoes, different kinds of forcemeat, sausage meat, &c., according to individual taste and fancy. Solid meat should be cut in small pieces, or in thin slices and rolled up, game and poultry into neat little joints and the large bones removed. It must then be carefully seasoned according to the kind of meat used. Pies that are to be served cold may always be more highly seasoned than those which are served hot. A little grated lemon rind is always an improvement when white meat is being used. Chopped onions must always be added with caution, and not at all if objected to. Sometimes it will be found sufficient to rub the pie dish with a piece of onion before commencing to pack it. The meat should be packed rather loosely in the pie dish, and piled high in the centre like a dome. An egg cup or pie funnel is sometimes put in the centre. A little liquid, water, stock, or gravy, Pie Funnel should then be poured in. If any bones and trim- mings have been taken from the meat, these may be made into a little stock while the pie is cooking, and then used for filling up the pie before serving. It is very important that a pie should have good gravy. When it is to be served cold this gravy should be a jelly, and a little gelatine should be dissolved in the stock if necessary. Whenever possible, good and tender meat should be used for making a pie; but if a tough and coarser kind has unavoidably to be employed, it should be partially cooked before the crust is put on. This