447 COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS top erf the sugar. Then work the lemon rind into the sugar with the blade of a knife until the two are thoroughly blended. Next make a custard, and proceed according to directions given for Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), adding the lemon sugar to the custard, and the strained juice when it has slightly cooled. Mix the whipped cream lightly, but thoroughly, with the custard, and, when be- ginning to set, pour into the prepared mould. When set, turn out on a lace-edged paper, or serve with a border of chopped jelly round. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2015. Neapolitan Creams (Pefites Cremes Napolitaines) Make some custard cream mixture as directed for Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), and divide it into three portions. Colour one portion pink with a few drops of carmine, another green with a little spinach green, and leave the third its natural colour. Add a different flavour to each. The pink might be flavoured with vanilla, the green with almond, and the yellow with a little sherry or liqueur. Rinse out some small moulds or cups with cold water, and fill them with the three mixtures set in alternate layers. Always allow one layer to set before pouring in another, and keep the layers of equal thickness. When ready, turn them out on a glass or silver dish, with a lace- edged paper under them. 2016. Orange Cream (Creme a 1’Orange) Make in the same way as Lemon Cream (see Recipe 2014), substituting orange for lemon. The top of the mould would look pretty if decorated with some small sections of tangerine orange set in clear jelly. 2017. Orange Custard (CrSme Renversee a 1’Orange) 2 whites and 4 yolks of eggs. J pt. milk. 2 large oranges. 2 oz. castor sugar. i oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. water. Sieve the sugar on to a plate, and grate the rind from the oranges on the top of it. Rub those two together with the fingers until thoroughly blended and then put this orange sugar into a basin. Add to it the yolks and whites of eggs, and beat together for a few minutes. Heat the milk, and pour it gradually into the basin, stirring all the time. Then return all to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the custard thickens, but do not let it boil. Remove quickly from the fire, and strain into a basin. Dissolve the gelatine in a very little water, and strain it into the custard, also the orange juice. Stir occasionally until lukewarm, then pour into a wetted mould, and set in a cool place until firm. Turn out on a glass or silver dish. Note.—The mould may, if liked, be decorated at the top with a little clear jelly set with a few small sections of orange. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 2018. Pine-apple Cream (Creme d’Ananas) 1 small tin pine-apple. | pt. custard. § oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. lemon or orange juice. 2 gills double cream. Some lemon or wine jelly. A few pistachio nuts. First decorate a quart mould with some jelly, small pieces of pine-apple, and chopped pistachio nuts (see p. 432). A little of the jelly may be coloured green if liked. Then prepare the cream mixture. Cut some of the pine-apple into dice, sufficient to fill a tea-cup. Take some of the re- mainder and rub it through a fine sieve, using a little of the syrup to moisten. Prepare enough of this pur6e to fill a gill measure. Dissolve the gelatine in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of the syrup, and strain it into \ pint warm custard. Add the pine-apple dice and puree, the lemon or orange juice, and sugar if necessary. Mix all together, and, lastly, stir in the cream whipped until stiff. When the mixture is almost setting, pour it into the prepared mould, and stand in a cool place or on ice until firm. Turn out when wanted, and decorate with chopped jelly or fern leaves. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2a. 2019. Peach Cream (Crfime aux Peches) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream (Recipe 1994). 2020. Raspberry Cream (CrSme aux Framboises) Make in the same way as Strawberry Cream (Recipe 2024), using raspberries instead of straw- berries. A few red currants may also be added. 2021. Rhubarb Cream (Creme de Rhubarbe) 2 lbs. rhubarb. 1 oz. gelatine, 4 to 6 oz. granulated sugar. J pt. cream. A few drops of carmine. Wipe the rhubarb, and cut it in small pieces without peeling it. Put it into a lined or earthen- ware saucepan with the sugar and just enough water to moisten, and stew it until quite tender. Then strain through a hair sieve, press the rhubarb gently to extract the juice, but do not rub through the fibre. Return the syrup or juice to the sauce- pan, and reduce it, if necessary, until there are only 3 gills, removing all scum that rises. Then add the gelatine cut in small pieces, and stir over the fire until it is dissolved. Strain into a basin, and let it cool. Whip the cream, and add it to the rhubarb syrup, when it is just lukewarm. Add a few drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour, and when setting pour into an oiled or wetted mould. "When cold and firm, turn out and serve with a little chopped jelly round. If liked, the mould may first be decorated with a little jelly and chopped pis- tachio nuts. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2022. Rice Cream (Riz & I’lmperatrice) 1| pts. milk. The rind of 1 lemon. } lb. Carolina rice. A pinch of salt. 1 oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. J pt. double cream. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. Put the rice and milk into a saucepan with the grated rind of one lemon and a pinch of salt.