t STOCKS AND SOUPS 65 117). Reheat, adding the lemon juice and lump of sugar, and serve in it some small pieces of cooked rabbit or chicken. Plain boiled rice should be handed separately. Nole.—The addition of a few poultry bones would be an improvement to this soup. Time to cook, 2 hours first day ; 30 to 40 minutes second day. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 124. Clear Soup It l’ltalienne (Consomm6 a lltalienne) This is a very favourite soup, as the garnish is so easily prepared. Macaroni, vermicelli, spaghetti, or any of the Italian pastes may be used. They must first be cooked in a small quantity of stock and then added to the clear soup. Some people cook them in boiling water, rinse them, and then add them, but although this rids them of all flour and keeps the soup very clear, it totally destroys the flavour of the paste, which becomes so soaked with water that it cannot absorb any consomme. A better plan is to cook the paste by itself in a small quantity of clear or light stock, then to drain it well and put it into the clear soup a few minutes before serving. A little of the clearness of the soup may be sacrificed by this means, but the taste will be infinitely better. In fact when this soup is served abroad, it has always a slightly hazy appear- ance. The time for cooking will depend on the kind of paste used. Some of the small ptites dl Italia will only require from 10 to 15 minutes, while macaroni will take a much longer time. Macaroni may without harm be cooked from 10 to 12 minutes in boiling water, then cut in small pieces or rings, and the cooking finished in stock. Naples macaroni is the best to use. From 2 to 3 oz. of macaroni or Italian paste will be enough to allow for each quart of soup. Grated Parmesan cheese should always be handed separately with this soup. 1 125, Clear Soup h la Jardiniere (Consommd a la Jardiniere) pts. clear stock or consomme, tea-cupful each of turnip, carrot, and | tea-cupful green peas. | tea-cupful white part of cauliflower cut in sprigs. 1 pt. light stock or water. 1 lump of sugar. cucumber cut in the shape of peas. Prepare the carrot, turnip, and cucumber, and cut out of each, round pieces the shape of peas, Cucumber cut with Pea-shaped Cutter using a special vegetable cutter or scoop for the purpose. Use the red part only of the carrot. Use the white part only of the cauliflower, cutting it in very small sprigs. Cook the vegetables first in light stock or water, putting in the carrot and turnip first, then the cauliflower, cucumber, and green peas according to the different times they will require to cook, and the age of the vegetables. Put the clear stock into another saucepan and bring it to the boil, strain the vegetables when they are ready and add them to it with a lump of sugar. Serve with dry toast cut in shreds. Note.—Other vegetables may be added if washed, such as asparagus points, very small button onions, a young lettuce, a little tarragon and chervil, &c. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 126. Julienne Soup (Consomme a la Julienne) £ cupful each of carrot, turnip,onion, leek and celery cut ill shreds. i tea-sp. castor sugar. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in thin strips like little matches, about 1J inches long. 3 pts. consomme or clear soup. 1 small lettuce. 1 oz. fresh butter. Julienne Garnish Use only the red outside part of the carrot, as it will give more colour to the soup. Wash the lettuce and cut it in very fine shreds and not too long. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add all the vegetables except the lettuce, and sprinkle them wdth the sugar. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly until all the butter is absorbed (about 15 minutes), shaking the pan frequently to prevent browning. This preliminary cooking may be done in the oven. Then add the clear soup and simmer until the vegetables are tender. Add the shred lettuce about 10 minutes before serving, as it does not require long cooking. A few crofttons of bread cut in Julienne shreds, dusted with castor sugar, and lightly browned in the oven, may be served with the soup or put in the soup tureen. Notes.—Other vegetables may be added accord- ing to the season of the year, such as a few fresh green peas, some young French beans cut in shreds, part of a spring cabbage cut in thin shreds, or some asparagus points. Half a dozen leaves of sorrel or spinach cut in shreds might also be added along with or instead of the lettuce, or a few fine leaves of tarragon and chervil. Many cooks boil the vegetables in water for this soup and then add them to the consomme, which of course makes a clearer soup, but this method is not so satisfactory in its results, as the vegetables are entirely lacking in taste. Others again cook them entirely in the clear soup, but this is extrava- gant, as the liquid is reduced unnecessarily. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. Quantity, 3 pints. E