COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 468 when necessary. When ready, add the apricot pulp and boil again until the marmalade will set when tested on a plate. Pot and cover (see p. 466). Note.—A few of the kernels may be blanched and added. 2119. Apricot Jam from Dried Fruit 2 lbs. dried apricots. I 7 lbs. preserving sugar. 5 pts. cold water. | 4 lemons. Wash the apricots, put them into a large basin, cover them with the water, and let them soak for 3 days. Then put water and fruit into a preserving pan with the sugar, and add the thinly peeled rind of the lemons finely chopped, and the strained juice. Bring carefully to the boil, and then boil from 20 to 30 minutes or until the jam will set. Skim if neces- sary, pot and cover. 2123. Black-currant Jelly To 1 pint of black-currant juice allow 1 lb. of sugar. Pick the currants from the stalks and wash them if necessary. Put them into a double saucepan, or into a jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water, with 1 gill of water or rhubarb juice (see p. 472) to each pound of fruit, and cook for 2 hours at least, or until all the juice is drawn out. Then strain them through a jelly cloth or large sieve, allowing them to drip all night. Next day measure the juice and put it into a preserving pan with the above pro- portion of sugar. Stir carefully until the sugar is dissolved, and then boil for | hour, or until the jelly will set. Notes.—A few red currants may be mixed with the black. Red-currant or cranberry jelly can be made in the same way. 2120. Blackberry and Apple Marmalade Equal quantities of apples and blackberries and 1 lb. of sugar to 1 lb. pulp. Wash the apples, and cut them in slices without removing skins and cores. Pick the blackberries carefully, discarding any that are unsound. Put both kinds of fruit into a preserving pan with just enough water to keep them from burning. Cook until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently. Then rub through a hair sieve, leaving only the skins and seeds. Return the sieved pulp to a clean preserving pan with sugar in the above proportion, and stir almost constantly for 20 minutes or until it is firm. If this is put in small pots it can be turned out in shape when wanted, and is very good served with blancmange or with cream. 2121. Blackberry or Bramble Jelly Blackberries. Preserving sugar. Pick and look over the berries carefully. Put them into a preserving pan and nearly cover them with cold water. Bring them slowly to the boil, and bruise them well with a wooden spoon. Then allow them to boil slowly from £ to 1 hour, bruising them down occasionally until all the juice has run out. When ready, strain through a jelly cloth or fine hair sieve, and when all the juice has run through, measure it and return it to a clean preserving pan. Bring the juice to the boil, and boil it alone for 15 minutes, then add sugar, allowing £ lb. to each pint of juice, and boil both together until the jelly will set. Skim if necessary, and pot in the usual way. 2122. Black-currant Jam To 3 lbs. black currants allow 1 pint of rhubarb juice and 4 lbs. preserving sugar. The black currants should be as ripe as possible. Strip them from the stalks, and wash them if they are very smoked and dirty. Put them into a pre- serving pan with the proper portion of rhubarb juice (see p. 472), bring to the boil, and allow the currants to simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Warm the sugar without allowing it to brown and add it next. Boil with the sugar from 20 to 30 minutes, or until the jam will set. It must be stirred almost constantly. Note.—Raspberry or red-currant juice may be used instead of rhubarb, but either of these will give a distinct flavour. 2124. Black-currant Marmalade Black currants. Sugar. Choose fresh ripe currants, pick them from the stalks, and wash them if necessary. Then put them into a double boiler and let them cook until soft and broken; or, failing a double boiler, cook them in a large jar or crock placed in a saucepan of hot water, or in the oven. When the currants are soft, rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Measure the pulp into a preserving pan, bring it to the boil, and boil 15 minutes. Allow 1 lb. sugar to each pint of pulp, warm it in the oven, add it to the pulp, and boil both together until the marmalade will set. Then pot and cover. 2125. Carrot Jam Carrots. Preserving sugar. Warm water. Lemons. Brandy. Sweet almonds. Choose sound red carrots, wash and clean them carefully, and if the jam is wanted a very good colour, use the red part only. Cut the carrots in pieces, and put them into a preserving pan with sufficient hot water to cover them. Allow them to simmer slowly until quite tender, then drain off any water that may be left, and rub the carrots through a sieve. Now weigh the carrot puree and to each pound allow 1 lb. sugar, 1 lemon, \ oz. sweet almonds, and a good table-spoonful of brandy. Put the sugar and carrot puree into the preserving pan, and add the grated rind and the strained juice of the lemons. Bring slowly to the boil, stirring all the time, then boil until the jam will set when tested on a plate. Have the almonds blanched and shred, and add them with the brandy at the last. Pot in the usual way. Note.—A few bitter almonds may be added if liked, or the jam may be flavoured with ginger instead of almonds. 2126. Cherry Jam 4 lbs. cherries. I 1 pt. fruit juice or 4 lbs. preserving sugar. | water. Choose sound cherries that are rather unripe, as sweet ripe cherries make a tasteless kind of jam. Wash or wipe the cherries carefully, then remove the stones, being careful to break the fruit as little as possible. If time permits, break some of the