406 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD ends. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of fast- boiling water, with a plate at the bottom, and boil at least two hours. When ready, lift out and let it stand for a minute or two. Then undo the cloth carefully, and turn out the pudding on to a hot dish. Wipe any water off the dish, and serve hot. Notes.—If the jam is very liquid, a few bread- crumbs or a little oatmeal should be mixed with it. Syrup, marmalade, mincemeat, or raw sugar may be used instead of jam. Time to boil, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1791. Little Russian Puddings 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 or 3 drops of vanilla. 2 or 3 drops of essence of lemon. 1 dessert-sp.grated choc- olate. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Make the mixture according to directions given under Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), and divide it into three equal portions. To one portion add the chocolate, to another a few drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour, and two or three drops of essence of almonds to flavour, and leave the third portion its natural colour, flavouring with vanilla. Have about nine small moulds or darioles well greased, and put into them alternate spoonfuls of the diflerent mixtures. Fill them rather irregu- larly, and then shake the mixture down. They should not be more than three-quarters full. Put them into a saucepan with a double fold of paper at the bottom, pour in enough hot water to come half- way up the sides, and cover with greased paper. Put the lid on the pan, and steam the puddings slowly until they are well risen. Turn them out when ready, and serve with custard, wine, or chocolate sauce. Note.—If preferred the mixture may be steamed in one large mould; it will then require II hours to cook. Time to steam, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10<L 1792. Six Cup Pudding 1 tea-cupful flour. 1 tea-cupful sugar. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 tea-cupful chopped suet. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-cupful jam. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. A pinch of salt. Chop the suet finely, and put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs, flour, sugar, and salt. Mix these dry ingredients together, make a well in the centre, and put in the jam. Heat the milk slightly in a small saucepan, add the soda, free from lumps, and mix quickly. Pour this while still frothy on to the top of the jam, and mix all together. Put the mixture into a greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper and steam steadily until thoroughly cooked. Serve with arrowroot or white sauce. Note.—A cupful of currants and sultanas mixed may be used instead of the jam. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1793. Snowdon Pudding 4 oz. suet. 4 oz. ground rice or small sago. 4 oz. bread-crumbs. 4 oz. brown sugar. A little milk. 2 table-sps. marmalade. A pinch of salt. A few raisins. 1 egg- Cut the raisins in halves, stone them, and dry them for a few minutes on a plate in the oven. Then grease a mould or basin, and decorate it with the prepared raisins. To Make the Pudding.—First chop the suet finely, and put it into a basin with the bread- crumbs, ground rice, sugar, and salt. Mix these dry ingredients together, and then make a well in the centre. Add the marmalade, the egg well beaten, and enough milk to moisten. Mix well, and pour into the prepared mould. Cover with greased paper, and steam until thoroughly cooked. Serve with custard, orange or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1794, 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 egg‘n 3 oz. flour. First grease a basin bottom. Then cream Sponge Pudding 2 table-sps. jam. \ tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. and put the jam at the the butter and sugar in another basin, and add to them the egg and half the flour. Beat well and add the milk with the remainder of the flour. The mixture should be of the consistency of a thick batter that will just drop from the spoon. Beat again and finally add the salt and baking powder. Put the mixture into the prepared basin, cover with greased paper and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve quickly. Note.—The jam may be omitted and any sweet sauce served with the pudding. Flavour- ing may be added to taste, or the basin may be lined with caramel (see Recipe 1749) before pouring in the mixture, or coated with brown sugar. Time to cook, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 per- sons. Probable cost, 4d. I lb. flour. \ lb. bread-crumbs. \ lb. suet. \ tea-sp. salt 1795. Suet Pudding 1 tea-sp. baking powder. About 1 cupful milk or water. Chop the suet very finely (see p. 395), and mix it in a basin with the other dry ingredients. Then make a well in the centre, and pour in enough milk or water to make a softish dough. Mix quickly and lightly, and put the mixture at once into a well-greased basin. Cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready, and serve with syrup or jam sauce. Notes.—Buttermilk may be used instead of sweet milk. The bread-crumbs may be omitted and £ lb. flour used, but the pudding will not be quite so light. A few currants, raisins, sultanas, or chopped nuts may be added to the mixture if wished, or 2 table-spoonfuls of jam or syrup may be put into the basin before putting in the mixture. Time to steam, 21 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 4d.