COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 412 1822. Biakemore Pudding Mixture. 3 table-sps. sponge cake crumbs. 2 table-sps. raspberry jam. 1 orange. Pastry. 3 oz. cornflour. 4 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 yolk. A little milk. First make the mixture. Put the jam into a small basin and add to it the grated rind and the strained juice of the orange. Then thicken with sponge cake or any white cake crumbs. To make the pastry, sieve the flour, cornflour, and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps, in the same way as for short crust (see p. 333). Then bind together with the yolk of egg and a little milk or water. Knead lightly until free from cracks, turn out on a floured board, and roll out rather thinly. Then grease a tin plate, or dish that will stand the heat of the oven, cut the pastry in two pieces, and line the dish with half of it. Trim round the edges and spread the jam mixture over the centre. Wet the rim of pastry with cold water and cover with the other piece of pastry. Press the edges well together and their trim again. Make one or two small holes on the top, mark round the rim with the back of a knife, and orna- ment the top with a few leaves made out of the scraps. Brush the pudding over with a little water or white of egg, dredge it with sugar, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, l hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 9d. 1823. Bread and 3 gills of milk. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 1 lb. cherries. Cherry Pudding A little grated lemon rind. 3 oz. sugar. 1 cupful of water. Juice of \ lemon. Wash and pick the cherries. Put them into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and lemon juice, and stew them until quite tender. In another saucepan put the milk, the butter, and the bread- crumbs, and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook gently for a few minutes until the bread-crumbs swell, and then remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and a little grated lemon rind, mix well, and lastly add the whites of eggs beaten to a stifl froth. Mix these in very lightly, breaking them down as little as possible. Put the stewed cherries into a greased pie dish, and pour the bread-crumb mixture over them. Bake in a moderate oven until the pudding is set and nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Time to bake, about J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10d. 1824. Bread-crumb and Marmalade Pudding 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 tea-cupfuls hot milk. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 or 3 table-sps. mar< malade. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with half the sugar, melt the butter in the milk, pour them over, and allow the mixture to soak a few minutes. Then add the yolks of eggs and mix them well in. Grease a pie dish and put a layer of marmalade at the bottom of it. Then put in half the bread-crumb mixture, more marmalade, and the remainder of the bread- crumb mixture on the top. Wipe round the edges of the dish and bake the pudding in a moderate oven until it feels firm to the touch. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stifl froth, add to them the other table-spoonful of sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the pudding. Return it to a cool oven to dry and brown the meringue. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1825. Bread and Chocolate Pudding 2 tea-cupfuls bread- crumbs. 4 tea-cupfuls milk. 2 to 3 oz. chocolate. 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 eggs. Vanilla. A pinch of salt. Grate or shred the chocolate, put it into a small saucepan with about two table-spoonfuls of milk or water, and let it dissolve slowly by the side of the fire. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, heat th6 milk, pour it over them and let them soak for half an hour. Then beat them up with a fork, adding the sugar, chocolate, salt, and a few drops of vanilla. Now stir in the yolks of the two eggs and lastly the whites beaten to a stifl froth. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, sprinkle the top with a few shred almonds and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1826. Brown Betty 6 oz. browned bread- crumbs. 1| lbs. apples. 2 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. golden syrup. \ tea-sp. cinnamon. 1 gill of water. Peel, core, and slice the apples thinly, and put a layer of them into a pie dish. Sprinkle some of the bread-crumbs over this, and lay on a few small pieces of butter. Then put in more apples, and repeat these alternate layers until all the apples and bread-crumbs are used up. The last layer should be bread-crumbs. Mix the syrup, water, and cinnamon together, and pour them over the top. Sprinkle with sugar, and put some more butter on the top. Place the pudding in a tin containing hot water, and bake in a moderate oven until the apples are soft. Serve with cream or milk. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1827. Carrot Pudding (Baked) 3 oz. bread-crumbs. [ 1 gill milk. 2 eggs. 1 oz. castor sugar. 2 carrots (medium). 1 oz. butter. | 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. Put the bread-crumbs, butter, and sugar into a basin, boil the milk and pour it over them. Allow these to soak, and meanwhile clean and grate the carrots (uncooked). Add them to the other mixture with the ginger and yolks of eggs, and, lastly, stir in the whites beaten to a stifl froth.