345 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES the top of the pie, so as to protect it whilst cooking. Bake in a moderate oven until the game feels tender when it is tested with a skewer. Allow the Eie with a little stock that will jelly when cold, rush over the sides with liquid glaze, and serve cold, garnished with parsley. The feet of the birds may, if liked, be scalded and glazed and stuck in the hole at the top of the pie. Notes.—Ordinary sausage meat may be used instead of the above forcemeat. A few pickled walnuts, chopped mushrooms, or truffles may be added to the pie if wished. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. 1476. Raised Hare Pie (PStd de Lievre) 1 lb. hare. J lb. sausage meat. Forcemeat balls. Some bacon fat. Seasoning. 1 glass port. 1 table-sp. red currant jelly. Jelly stock. Raised pie crust. For a small pie, part of a hare only will be re- quired ; the rest may be made into soup or used in some other way. Remove the bones, cut the flesh in small pieces and then weigh it. Melt a little bacon fat or good dripping in a frying pan, brown the pieces of hare in this, then lift them out, draining oS the fat. Add the red currant jelly and port wine with the sausage meat, and mix them well together. Make some raised pie crust, (Recipe 1445), and line a greased mould with it. Then pack it with the hare and sausage meat in layers, seasoning highly with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and mixing in a few forcemeat balls. Cover with the crust, finishing off as directed in previous recipe. Time to cook, about 3 hours. 1477. Raised Salmon Pie (Pat6 de Saumon) 1 lb. salmon. J lb. whiting farce. A little butter. Button mushrooms. 1 or 2 truffles. Seasoning. Raised pie crust. First prepare the whiting farce as directed in Re- cipe 1284, making it rather moist with the addition of a little cream. Then cut the salmon in pieces about 2 inches square, fry them in butter a few minutes and let them drain and cool. Now line a greased pie mould with raised pie crust (Recipe 1445) rolled out rather thinly. Put a coat- ing of the farce all over the inside, fill up the centre with the salmon, sprinkle the pieces with some chopped button mushrooms and some slices of truffle. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Put another coating of the farce over the top and smooth it with a wetted knife. Cover the pie with more of the pastry, wetting the edges to make the two pieces stick together. Trim neatly, make a hole in the top of the pie, and decorate with some fancy-shaped pieces of pastry. Brush over with beaten egg to glaze the pastry, and bake in a good oven. When suffi- ciently cooked, remove the pie from the oven and let it stand a few minutes. Then take it out of the mould, and fill up with a little thin fish sauce, poured, by means of a funnel, through the hole in the top. Serve on a dish paper garnished with parsley and sliced lemon. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1478. MISCELLANEOUS PIES AND PASTIES Eel Pie, Cold (Pate aux Anguilles) 1J lbs. eels. | pt. good meat stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. \ tea-sp. mixed herbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped shallot. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 1 hard-boiled egg. Pepper and salt. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Clean and skin the eels, cutting off the heads and tails, and cut them in pieces about 2 inches in length. Put all the trimmings into a saucepan with the | pint of stock, let them simmer for i hour, strain and skim. Sprinkle over the pieces of eel the chopped parsley, chopped shallot, finely powdered herbs, pepper and salt, and mix all together. Pack the fish into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre. Add the ketchup, lemon juice, and a little of the stock. Cut the hard- boiled egg in small pieces, and arrange it neatly round the top. Then cover the pie with pastry according to directions given on p. 337, and bake in a good oven. When ready, remove from the oven and pour in the rest of the stock by means of a funnel placed in the hole in the top. Serve cold, when the stock should be a nice jelly. Note.—A little wine may be added to the stock if liked. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1479. Eel Pie, Hot (PSte d’Anguilles) 2 lbs. eels. Seasoning. Veal forcemeat, cipe 1281. Re- | pt. good white sauce. 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Skin and bone the eels, cut them in small pieces, and season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Make some veal forcemeat and put a layer of it at the foot of a pie dish. Arrange the pieces of eel on the top, and pour over them 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of good white or bechamel sauce. Put another layer of forcemeat on the top, and arrange the egg cut in small pieces round. Cover the pie with pastry according to directions given on p. 337, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. When ready, remove the pie from the oven, and pour in a little more sauce by means of a funnel placed in the hole in the top. Serve hot. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Note.—Other kinds of fish may be made in the same way. 1480. Fish and Oyster Pie 1 lb. cooked fish. 1 doz. fresh oysters or half a tin of oysters. 1 gill fish stock or oyster liquor. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 cupful of bread- crumbs. Rough-puff pastry. Any nice white fish can be used for making this pie. Break it into flakes or small pieces, and be