COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 602 will not set. The quantity of water will vary somewhat according to the weather; in hot weather scarcely any will be required. Have ready some small peppermint rings placed on a marble slab, or on a tray lined with wax paper. Pour the fon- dant into these and allow them to set—they should set at once. Turn out when cold, and leave the peppermint creams to dry a short time before eating or packing. Note.—These may be crystallised (Recipe 2862) if they have to be kept some time. 2880. Peppermint Tablet 1 lb. granulated sugar. I 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. | Essence of peppermint. Put the sugar and milk into a saucepan, bring them slowly to the boil, and then simmer from 10 to 15 minutes, stirring all the time. Test a little of the mixture in cold water, and, if ready, it should form a hardish ball, or register about 245° P. on the thermometer. When sufficiently cooked, re- move the saucepan from the fire, add the butter and enough peppermint to flavour, and stir until the mixture grains. Pour out on an oiled tin, mark ■with the back of a knife into convenient- sized pieces, and when cold cut up. PART III CHOCOLATES 2881. Chocolate for Covering 1 lb. chocolate. 1 to 2 oz. cocoa butter. For covering purposes buy good, plain chocolate at from Is. 6d. to 2s. per lb., and use also the best and purest cocoa butter. Or, special covering chocolate may be used, which is already mixed with a certain proportion of cocoa butter, in which case little or none of the latter will be required. In any case the quantity of cocoa butter necessary vail vary somewhat according to the kind of choco- late used, and also according to the weather, more being required in cold weather than in hot. Cut up the chocolate roughly—it is quite unnecessary to grate it—and heat it very gently over the fire until it forms a smooth paste. Keep moving and stirring the chocolate constantly with a wooden spoon to prevent its sticking and burning, and, if seems dry at the beginning, add a little cocoa butter, previously melted in a separate saucepan, and then more afterwards until the chocolate is of the right consistency for coating. A little experience mil soon teach the amount necessary. If the chocolate is not thin enough it will be thick and lumpy- looking on the sweets, and, if too much cocoa butter is used, the chocolate will be greasy and will run off the sweets. If too much is added in error, the fault can easily be remedied by adding more chocolate. Water must on no account be used to thin down the chocolate. Beat the chocolate well to give it a nice glossy appearance, but do not make it too hot. The saucepan should be removed from the fire or gas occasionally, and the beating continued ; the heat from the saucepan will be quite sufficient to continue the melting of the chocolate. If made too hot the chocolates will have a dull appearance. When ready, allow the chocolate to cool, and, when required, warm up over a gentle heat. Note.—If unsweetened chocolate is used, take equal quantities of the chocolate and sugar, and flavour with vanilla. A larger proportion of cocoa butter will be required. 2882. To Cover Centres with Chocolate The variety of centres which can be covered with chocolate is very great, but space will only allow of a few being given here. They may be made of fondant of various colours and flavours, of marzi- pan, nougat, caramel, glace fruits, fruit paste, praline, marshmallows, &c. Most centres are best made the day before they are to be covered, as they should be dry and set. The following recipes will give an idea of what can be done in the way of making centres, and a little ingenuity will no doubt suggest many others. The coating of centres must be done in a dry atmosphere; it will never be successful if carried on near steaming saucepans. The temperature of the room should be between 60° and 65° F. In very hot weather it is best to do this piece of work in the early morning or evening. Before beginning, have everything in readiness— a pan of covering chocolate, prepared as above, the Dipping Ring centres for covering, a dipping fork or dipping ring, and a tray lined with grease-proof paper for laying the chocolates on after coating. Heat the chocolate over a small gas jet or other gentle heat, always being careful not to make it too hot. It should always be possible to touch the bottom of the sauce- pan with the hand. Remove the saucepan from the gas, and tilt it on one side on the table, in order to keep the chocolate well together, and to get a greater depth. Drop a centre into the deepest part, cover it over with the chocolate, and lift out with the dipping fork. Let any surplus chocolate drop oS, and draw the fork lightly across the edge of the saucepan. Then place the chocolate on the prepared tin; it may be turned right upside down if wished, or simply slipped off the fork. A little twist may be made on the top of the chocolate by drawing out a thread of the chocolate with one of the prongs of the fork, and then curling it round. Or, a little of the covering chocolate may be put into a small paper bag and forced out on the top of the chocolate, to give the desired twist. The chocolate should set immediately, and look bright and glossy. Proceed to cover the other centres in the same way. The chocolate must be kept well mixed up with a fork and re-heated when necessary. Do not allow it to become too cold. Place the chocolates on the tin a little distance apart—they must never be allowed to touch each other. If they are to be decorated, put on the decoration before they become too dry. Chocolates must not be left exposed to the air too long, or they will lose their glossy appearance. Any covering