324 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1379. Eggs sur le Plat with Cheese Grease a fireproof dish, and sprinkle it with finely grated cheese. Break the required number of eggs into it, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle some more cheese on the top, pour over a little melted butter, and cook as in last recipe. Note.—A little cream may be added. 1380. Eggs sur le Plat with Kidneys (CEufs sur le Plat aux Rognons) 6 eggs. I Butter. 3 sheep’s kidneys. | Salt. Pepper. Split the kidneys in halves lengthwise, removing the skin and the fat from centre. Dip them in melted butter, season with pepper and salt, and broil them, or saute them in butter until sufficiently cooked. Meanwhile prepare and cook the eggs as in Recipe 1322, and when ready place the cooked kidneys between the eggs. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Note.—A little sour cream may be used instead of the fresh cream or milk. Probable cost,"*9d. 1385. Swiss Eggs 4 eggs. White pepper. Salt. 3 table - sps. grated cheese. (<Eufs a la Suisse) 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill double cream. J oz. butter. Grease a fireproof dish and break the four eggs into it, being careful not to break them. Season them with pepper and salt. Mix the cheese and parsley together, and sprinkle half of them over the eggs. Whip the cream slightly, season it with a little pepper and salt, and arrange it on the top. Sprinkle the remainder of the parsley and cheese over, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and cook in a good oven until the eggs are set and the top lightly browned. Probable cost, 10(2. 1381. Eggs sur le Plat with Mushrooms Grease a fireproof dish, and sprinkle the bottom of it with some mushrooms, which have been chopped and cooked in butter. Pour in a little good stock or gravy, and break the required number of eggs on the top, seasoning them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little melted butter over, and cook in the oven until set. 1382. Eggs sur le Plat with Shrimps Take 2 table-spoonfuls picked shrimps, chop them rather small, and mix them with 1 gill white sauce. Pour this mixture into a well-greased fire- proof dish, and break four eggs carefully into it. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle lightly with bread-crumbs, lay a few small pieces of butter on the top, and cook in the oven until set. Probable cost, 8d. 1383. Birds’ Nests Fresh eggs. Seasoning. Butter. These should be prepared in individual fireproof dishes of a round flat shape. Allow one egg for each dish, and grease the dishes with a little butter. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and season lightly with pepper and salt. Arrange this neatly in the dishes, and drop the yolk of an egg into a hollow made in the centre of each. Place small pieces of butter on the top, and stand the dishes on a tin with a little boiling water round them. Then bake in the oven about 5 minutes. 1384. 4 or 5 eggs. 4 or 5 rings of bread. A little butter. Eggs in Sunshine, or Ox Eyes Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk or cream. Cut as many rings as there are eggs from thin slices of white bread, and fry these in hot butter or fat until a golden brown colour. Place them in a greased fireproof dish, and slip a fresh egg into the centre of each. This should be done carefully from a cup. Season them with white pepper and salt, and pour the milk or cream over. Cover the dish with a plate or saucepan lid, and place it in the oven until the eggs are set, about 10 minutes. 1386. Eggs sur le Plat with Tomatoes Grease a fireproof dish, and pour into it 1 gill of tomato sauce or puree. Break four eggs on the top of this, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley and melted butter over the top, and cook in the oven until set. Probable cost. Id. 1387. Eggs sur le Plat with Tongue Grease a fireproof dish, and sprinkle at the foot some grated or finely chopped tongue. Moisten this with a little good stock or gravy. Break the required number of eggs on the top, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little melted butter over, and cook in the oven until set. VARIATIONS OF THE FRIED EGG Fried eggs may be varied by serving them with different sauces or with different purees of meat or vegetables. They are also frequently used as a garnish to other dishes. 1388. Fried Eggs with Black Butter (CEufs au Beurre Noir) Fry the required number of eggs according to directions gi^en in Recipe 1324, and place them as they are ready on a very hot round dish. Then prepare some black butter (Recipe 676), and pour it over them. 1389. Fried Eggs with Endive (CEufs & la Chicoree) 6 fried eggs. 2 table-sps. cream. 2 or 3 heads endive. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. Trim and wash the endive, and cook it in boiling salted water from 20 to 25 minutes. Then strain, rinse with cold water, and press it dry in a clean cloth. Chop it finely, and if time permits rub it through a wire sieve. Put this pur6e of endive into a saucepan and mix it with the butter, cream, and pepper and salt to taste. Serve it in a hot dish with the fried eggs on the top. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d.