EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 321 1354. Curried Eggs, Cold (<Euis Froids & l’lndienne) 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 2 tea-sps. curry powder. Seasoning. 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. A few drops vine- gar. Nasturtium flowers. Capers. Cut the eggs in halves across, and cut a small piece off the end of each to enable them to stand. Remove the yolks and rub them through a sieve. Then put them into a basin with the butter, using about half as much butter as there are yolks of eggs, and season with pepper, salt, and about a tea-spoonful of curry powder. Beat the mixture until perfectly smooth, then put it into a forcing bag and force some out into each little egg-cup, piling it rather high. Put one or two capers on the top of each, or sprinkle lightly with parsley. Have the rice boiled as for curry, cold and very dry. Mix into it with a fork a sprinkling of curry powder, pepper, and salt if necessary. Then add the oil, and lastly a few drops of vinegar. Pile up the rice in the centre of a dish, and arrange the eggs round. Garnish with a few small nasturtium flowers or with sections of red tomato. Probable cost, Is. 1355. Ham Eggs (CEufs Farcis au Jambon) Prepare in the same way as Sardine Eggs (Recipe 1351), using 2 oz. lean cooked ham finely chopped instead of the sardine paste. 1356. Eggs in Aspic, 1 (CEufs en Aspic) 3 hard-boiled eggs. I Salad. Aspic jelly. | Mayonnaise sauce. Take half a dozen small dariole moulds and line them at the bottom with liquid aspic, decorating with a little chopped parsley or a few leaves of tarragon or chervil. When this is set, place half a hard- boiled egg on the top with the cut side down. Cover with more liquid aspic, and put aside to stiffen. When required, turn the eggs out of the moulds, and serve them on a pretty dish garnished with salad. Serve mayonnaise sauce separately. 1357. Eggs in Aspic, 2 (CEufs en Aspic) 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. I Decoration. Aspic jelly. Salad. | Mayonnaise sauce. Take a border mould about a pint size and rinse it out with cold water. Then pour into it a little liquid aspic jelly and allow it to set. Now decorate the top of the mould prettily with pieces of beetroot cut in fancy shapes, finely chopped parsley, pieces of tongue or tomato, sprigs of chervil, or any other decoration according to fancy. Set this decoration with a little more aspic jelly, and then place round the hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters. A few small pieces of tomato, green salad, or cucumber may be put between the pieces of egg if wished. Fill up the mould with aspic jelly, and place in a cool place or on ice until firm. When required, unmould, fill up the centre with green salad or a macedoine of vegetables with mayonnaise, and place some small fresh leaves of lettuce round the sides. Ncte.—Tomato or meat jelly may be used instead of the aspic. 1358. Egg and Shrimp Mayonnaise 4 hard-boiled eggs. [ Mayonnaise sauce. 1 cupful picked shrimps. | Salad. Remove the shells from the hard-boiled egg, cut the whites in shreds, and chop the yolks rather finely. Cut the shrimps in small pieces, and mix them with the yolks of eggs. Pile these two in the centre of a dish and cover them with mayon- naise sauce. Put the shred whites in a border round, and garnish with a little green salad. VARIATIONS OF THE POACHED EGG The simple poached egg may be varied in many different ways: (1) By having some savoury butter, such as maitre d’hotel, shrimp, anchovy, &c., put on the top of it before sending it to table. (2) By spreading the croute or toast on which it is served with some savoury paste or mince. (3) By pouring a sauce over or round the egg. (4) By serving the egg on a puree of some kind. The following recipes will no doubt suggest many other tasty combinations. 1359. Poached Eggs with Cheese (CEufs PochSs au Fromage) 4 or 5 eggs. 1 gill white sauce. 3 tab.-sps. grated cheese 3 tab.-sps. bread-crumbs Pepper and salt. A little butter. Butter a flat dish, and sprinkle it with half the bread-crumbs and cheese. Poach the eggs, and place them on the top. Then pour over the sauce, and put the rest of the cheese and bread-crumbs on the top. Lay on a few small pieces of butter, and place in a hot oven to melt the cheese and lightly brown the top. Probable cost, 9d. 1360. Poached Eggs with Curry Sauce (CEufs Poch6s a l’lndienne) Poach the required number of eggs, and serve them on round croutons of bread. Pour over them a good curry sauce (Recipe 685), and serve very hot. 1361. Egg Fritters (CEufs en Beignets) Poached eggs. Frying batter. Poach the eggs as directed in Recipe 1321, and place them in cold water. When quite cold, lift them out, drain them on a clean cloth, and season with pepper and salt. Then dip the eggs in frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain, and serve them piled up on a hot dish, garnished with parsley. 1362. Poached Eggs with Lentils Prepare some puree of lentils as directed in Recipe 625, and put it in a hot dish. Poach the Poached Eggs with Lentils required number of eggs, and arrange them neatly on the top. x