SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 201 The New Zealand or Canterbury lamb is much cheaper than the home grown, but as far as taste is concerned it is more like mutton, as it seems to lose its characteristic flavour during the process of freezing. The flesh of lamb is tenderer than that of mutton, but it is more watery and not so nutritious. Lamb cannot be hung for very long. Pork.—Pork requires very careful choosing, as it is more subject to disease than perhaps any other animal food, and unless one is sure of its source it is safer to leave it alone. The flesh should be of a pinky white colour, smooth, finely grained, and firm to the touch. The skin must not be too thick. The fat should be pearly white with no black specks or kernels. Small pork is the best. It is much more difficult to digest than either beef or mutton, as it contains such a large proportion of fat. Fresh pork should not be bought in summer. Veal is the flesh of the calf. It should be very pale in colour, firm, and finely grained. When the flesh has a bluish tinge it should be rejected. The fat should be white, and if that which surrounds the kidney is hard and without smell the meat is in good condition. Veal is not so nutritious as beef, and it is also more difficult of digestion, although this is often owing to bad cooking. If cooked slowly and thoroughly it is one of our most useful meats, and will furnish quite a variety of tasty and delicate dishes. Like all other young meats, veal should not be hung very long, as it taints very quickly and becomes quite unwhole- some. The best veal is that of a calf from two to four months old. Ham.—Choose a short thick leg with a moderate amount of fat. The rind should be rather thin and the bone fine. The quality may be tested by running a pointed knife or skewer in close to the bone ; when withdrawn it should not be greasy nor have an unpleasant smell, but, on the contrary, be clean and have a good flavour. Hams vary in price according to the manner of curing and special reputation. In England the Yorkshire and Cum- berland hams are generally considered the finest and still command a good price, although some of the southern counties produce hams by no means inferior. In Scotland, the Dumfries and Galloway hams rank among the best, and Irish hams from Belfast are much prized. Canadian and Danish hams are also in the market in large quantities, and although the flavour is not considered so delicate as that of the home-cured variety, their moderate price recommends them to those who have to study economy. Bacon.—Bacon must be fresh and free from any unpleasant smell. The rind should be smooth and thm, the fat firm and of a pinkish white colour, while the lean should adhere closely to the bone and be of a nice red colour. -There should be as little gristle as possible. The following diagram will give a general idea of the way in which a side of bacon is usually cut in England; there will of course be sub-divisions to make smaller pieces. What is known as “ streaky ” bacon and the flank are considered the finest, but, being much in demand, they fetch a high price. The back and loin are also prime pieces, while the fore-end and gammon, although not so fine in texture, do excellently for boiled bacon. Side of Bacon 1. Collar. 2. Back. 3. Loin. 4. Corner. 5. Gammon. 6. Flank. 7. Streaky. S. Fore-end. Suet.—This must be very fresh and of good quality. The solid fat which surrounds the kidney, either beef or mutton, is considered the best. Beef suet should be cream-coloured or pale yellow, and mutton suet very white and waxy. Both should be very firm and dry. Beef suet is considered richer than mutton suet, while veal suet is par- ticularly delicate. Internal Meats.—All inside meats such as tripe, liver, kidneys, sweetbreads, &c„ must be bought very fresh and used at once. Venison.—See p. 297. Frozen Meat.—Large quantities of meat are now imported from abroad in a frozen condition and sold in this country at a considerably lower prico than that of home production. New Zealand, Australia, the United States, S. America, and Canada all send us in supplies. The prejudice against this kind of meat has to a large extent disappeared, and it is certainly an immense boon to those who cannot afford the high prices asked for our home-fed meat. Needless to say, this foreign meat does not equal British meat as far as quality and flavour are concerned; the process of freezing apparently takes away from its goodness, J>ut with careful thawing and good cooking, it compares very favourably with the more expensive joints, and in many cases it requires an experienced palate to detect the difference. Mutton and lamb seem to suffer less than beef from the process of freezing. That known as Canterbury lamb is the best. When ordering frozen meat it must be remembered that it will not keep in warm weather without a refrigerator. It must also be remembered that the meat will shrink considerably in cooking. DIFFERENT JOINTS OF MEAT AND THEIR USES The cutting up of meat varies somewhat accord- ing to the locality, and also according to the special demands of the people with whom the butchers have to deal. The following diagrams will give an idea of how the different animals are cut up by English and Scotch butchers, and may also be of assistance to the housewife in knowing what piece to order for the special purpose she has in view.