SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 267 eggs, seasoning, and 1 gill of good white sauce, either bechamel, veloute, or a nice creamy sauce would do. Pound all these ingredients together, and rub them through a wire sieve. Put this puree into a basin, then whip the cream lightly and mix it in. Pour the mixture into a well-greased border mould, making it not more than three- quarters full. Cover with greased paper, and steam very slowly until the cream feels firm to the touch. When ready, remove the cream from the steamer, and allow it to stand a few minutes. Then turn out carefully on to a hot entree dish, pour the remaining £ pint of white sauce over, and garnish the centre with green peas, asparagus points, or a macedoine of vegetables. Notes.—This cream may be made richer by omitting the eggs and the gill of sauce, and using a larger proportion of cream, but this will be found more difficult to steam and turn out. If preferred, it may be steamed in several small moulds instead of one large. Time to steam, about f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1097. Creme de Veau en Aspic Tomato jelly. 6 oz. cooked veal. 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 gill bechamel sauce. 3 table-sps. liquid aspic. 1 gill thick cream. Salad. Mayonnaise sauce. Prepare some tomato jelly according to Recipe 1310 and line with it 6 or 7 cutlet, or other small entree moulds. To Make the Mixture.—Chop the veal and ham very finely or put them through the mincing machine, and pound them in a mortar with the bechamel sauce. Add to them the liquid aspic, and seasoning if necessary. Whip the cream and stir it lightly into the mixture, and when it is beginning to set, fill up the prepared moulds. Run a little more tomato jelly over the top and set aside until cold. To Serve.—Arrange a little fresh green salad mixed with mayonnaise sauce in the centre of a dish. Turn out the creams and place them round, and garnish with the heart of a lettuce in the centre. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1098. Mousselines de Veau a la St. Honors 6 oz. fillet of veal. Seasoning. \ white of egg. About 3 or 4 table-sps. double cream. Garnish. Button mushrooms. 1 or 2 table-sps. sauce. 1 or 2 truffles. Sauce. 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour. \ pt. white stock. 1 table-sp. tomato puree Cut the veal in small pieces, pound it in a mortar with the white of egg, season with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and then rub it through a wire sieve. Put the puree into a small saucepan, stand it over ice and add the cream, about 1 tea-spoonful at a time, beating the mixture well with a wooden spoon. If preferred, less cream may be used and some beaten white of egg stirred into the mixture at the last. Grease 6 or 7 small moulds, three- quarters fill them with the mixture and poach them in a saute pan until firm to the touch. Sauce.—Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and stock, and flavour it with a little puree of tomato. The sauce ought to be clear and not too thick Garnish.—Take 1£ to 2 dozen small preserved mushrooms and heat them in a small quantity of sauce, seasoning to taste. Prepare also a few fine shreds of truffle, keeping them separate. To Serve.—Turn out the little moulds and arrange them neatly in an entree dish, and strain the sauce over. Arrange the mushrooms in the centre and put a little of the shred truffle on the top of each cream. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1099. Quenelles of Veal (Quenelles de Veau) | lb. fillet of veal. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 1 gill white stock or seasoned milk. 1 white and 2 yolks of egg- Salt and pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. Grated lemon rind. For Serving.—A border of potato or spinach, | pint bechamel or veloute sauce, green peas or macedoine of vegetables. To Make the Quenelle Meat.—Weigh the meat free from skin and bone, wipe it with a damp cloth, cut it in small pieces, and put it twice through a mincing machine Make a panada with the butter, flour, and stock. Put the butter and stock into a small saucepan, and when it boils, add the flour. Stir over the fire until thick enough to roll into a ball. Thed*let it remain for a few minutes longer to finish cooking, keeping it turned about to prevent burning. Add this panada to the meat in the mortar, and pound well, adding by degrees the eggs and seasoning. When all is perfectly mixed, rub through a wire sieve on to a plate, remembering to scrape the sieve underneath. To Shape and Cook the Quenelles.—You will re- quire two dessert spoons, a knife, and a small basin or jug of warm water. Take up a spoonful of the mixture in a wetted spoon, and with a knife or spatula, also wet, smooth the mixture over the top. Make the quenelle as much the shape of an egg as possible, high in the centre and pointed at the Shaping Quenelles two ends. With the second wet spoon, scoop the quenelle neatly out, and place it in a greased frying or saute pan. Shape all the mixture in the same way, and arrange the quenelles a little distance apart in the pan. Wet the spoons and knife each time before using, and try to make the quenelles all one size and shape. Pour round them very gently enough boiling water to half cover them.