COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 546 containing the powders), or with Benger’s “ Liquor Pancreaticus.” Benger’s Food may be given for a change. Malt, also, in various forms is much used for making milk more digestible. 2616. Milk Tea This is frequently ordered for an invalid, as it is more wholesome and nourishing than ordinary tea. It must, however, be properly prepared. To make 1 breakfast-cupful, allow 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and 1 tea-spoonful good China tea. If a larger quantity is wanted, increase the proportions. First heat a small teapot with boiling water, pour away the water and put in the tea. Heat the milk to boiling point in a small saucepan and pour it over the tea. Cover, and allow it to stand in a warm place for 20 minutes. The side of the stove or a cool oven will do, but the tea must on no account be allowed to boil. Then pour off carefully into another heated teapot or into a breakfast cup, being careful not to disturb the leaves and sediment. Serve at once. By this means the drink contains only the cream and the whey of the milk and the refreshing element of the tea. The casein, which is the heavy part of the milk, combines with the tannin, the bitter element of the tea, and forms a curd which sinks to the bottom of the teapot. Hence the necessity for pouring off the tea carefully. Milk tea, if well made, is perfectly wholesome, and may be given to the most delicate person. 2617. Mulled Wine and Egg I gill water. 1 gill wine. 1 clove. £ inch cinnamon stick. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put the water, clove, and cinnamon into a small lined saucepan, and boil them for 10 minutes. Add the wine, and let the mixture barely reach boiling point. Beat up the egg with the sugar, pour the hot liquid gently over it, and stir well. The pre- paration should be of the consistency of cream. Probable cost, id. to 6d. 2618. Oatmeal Drink Put a large tea-spoonful of fine oatmeal into a tumbler, and mix it smoothly with a little cold water. Then fill up the tumbler with boiling milk or milk and water, stirring all the time. Add salt to taste. 2619. Prune Drink 5 or 6 prunes. 1 pt. cold water. £ oz. sugar. Wash the prunes and cut them in halves. If time permits, soak them for an hour in a pint of cold water. Then put them into a lined saucepan with the water and sugar, and simmer slowly for an hour. Strain and let stand till cold. Note.—This makesa refreshing and excellent drink. A little lemon juice or port wine may be added. Time to cook, I hour. Probable cost, 2d. 2620. Revalenta Gruel 1 tea-sp. revalenta. A pinch of salt. 2 tea-cupfuls milk. A small piece of butter. 1 tea-cupful water. Mix the revalenta smoothly with the water. Put the milk into a saucepan to heat, and, when almost boiling, stir in the revalenta. Simmer slowly for £ hour, stirring frequently. Add sugar or salt to taste, and stir in a small piece of butter at the last. 2621. Rice Milk £ oz. rice. £ pt. milk. Sugar to taste. Wash the rice well, and put it into a small lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water. Pour on the milk, and simmer slowly for an hour until the rice is reduced to a pulp. Be careful the milk does not boil over, and stir occasionally with a wooden spoon. Sweeten to taste, and serve hot or cold. Note.—Tapioca or sago may be used in the same way. The crushed tapioca is the best for the purpose. The larger kind, and also sago, would require soaking first. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, ljd. 2622. Rice Water 1 oz. Carolina rice. i £ inch cinnamon stick. 1 pt. cold water. | Well wash the rice, and put it into a small fined pan with the water and cinnamon stick. Simmer it slowly for an hour, then strain, and it is ready for use. It may be served hot or cold. If cold, stir it occasionally while cooling, or it will jelly. A little sugar may be added, if allowed. Notes.—Carolina rice is the best for the purpose, as it contains most starch. A table-spoonful of sherry or port may be mixed with the rice water, if the patient has need of stimulant. A piece of ginger may be boiled with the rice water instead of cinnamon stick. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost. Id. 2623. Rum and Milk £ pt. milk. 1 A pinch of nutmeg. £ glass rum. J Sugar. Make the milk very hot, sweeten to taste, and pour it into a glass. Add the rum and a pinch of nutmeg (if liked) and serve very hot. Probable cost, 3d. 2624. Sago and Port Wine 1 dessert-sp. sago. I 1 glass of port wine. £ pt. cold water. | Sugar to taste. Wash the sago, and soak it for an hour in the cold water. Then put it into a saucepan, and simmer slowly for £ an hour, until it is a clear jelly. If too thick, add more water. Remove the pan from the fire, stir in the port wine, but do not boil again. Sweeten to taste, and serve. Note.—Tapioca may be used instead of sago. Time to cook, 1£ hours. Probable cost, 6d. 2625. Suet and Milk £ pt. new milk. I £ to 1 oz. mutton suet. Sugar or salt. : Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water, and put into it the milk and suet very finely shred. Simmer slowly by the side of the fire from 15 to 20 minutes, then strain. Add salt or sugar according to taste, and serve warm. Notes.—If time permits, this may be prepared in