PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 349 pie crust rather thickly and in a round shape. Flour the surface well and double it in two. Then draw the edges together so as to form a sort of pocket shape that will fit in easily to the form of the mould. Roll slightly to smooth out any creases, but be careful that the two sides do not stick together. Slip this into the mould and press it well against the sides so as to take the form. Trim round, leaving about | inch of pastry pro- jecting above the edges. Mark round these edges with the back of a knife or a pair of pincers ; line the mould with soft paper, fill it with rice and bake in a good oven. When the pastry is set and firm, empty out the rice and paper and return to the oven to brown and cook the inside. Turn out when ready and fill with macaroni & la Milanaise. Serve hot. Note.—Other mixtures may be used for filling the timbale, such as macaroni and cheese, risotto, a fricassee of fish or chicken, &c. 1493. Vegetable Pie, 1 1 cupful each of— carrot, turnip, celery, onion, cooked haricot beans and tomatoes. 2 oz. butter or fat. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. fine tapioca. 1 pt. vegetable stock or water. Pastry. Melt the butter or fat in a stewpan, and when hot, put in the carrot, turnip, onion, and celery all cut in slices and well dried. Fry them until lightly browned, then add the beans and tomato cut in small pieces. Season with pepper and salt and cover with vegetable stock or water. When boiling, sprinkle in the tapioca, stir for a few minutes, then put on the lid and stew slowly for 1 hour or until the vegetables are tender. Empty the contents of the saucepaD into a pie dish just large enough to hold them, and when quite cold cover with suitable pastry as directed for a Meat Pie (on p. 337). Bake until the pastry is thoroughly cooked, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—The vegetables may be varied according to what is in season and available. The greater variety the better. 1494. Vegetable Pie, 2 2 cupfuls cooked mac- aroni. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked celery. 1 cooked cauliflower. 3 or 4 tomatoes. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 tea-cupful brown sauce or gravy. Potato pastry. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and fry it a golden brown. Then pour in the sauce or gravy, simmer a few minutes, and season rather highly with pepper and salt. Have the macaroni cut in small pieces and mix it with the grated cheese. Cut the celery and cauliflower also in small pieces, and peel and slice the tomatoes. Now take a greased pie dish and arrange in it the different ingredients in layers, pouring the sauce with the onions over all. Allow the contents of the dish to become cold, and then cover with potato pastry or any other plain pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. 1495. Vol-au-vent A vol-au-Vont is one of the most recherche dishes of French cuisine, and one which the English cook is somewhat afraid of attempting. However, if once the making of puff pastry has been thoroughly mastered, the making of the pastry case itself should not present much difficulty. In fact, this can very often be bought ready made from the pastrycook’s, although, of course, this will make it more expensive. The filling is the most importaht part of the vol-au-vent. The foundation of this is a rich sauce of some kind, either white or brown, with a variety of differentgarnishes,such as small quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, cockscombs, small pieces of sweetbread, chicken, brains, &c., or if it is a fish vol-au-vent, quenelles of fish, small fillets of fish, pieces of lobster, oyster, mussels, &c. The garnish must always be prepared and cooked beforehand and then made thoroughly hot in the sauce before being put into the pastry case. The filling may be made more or less elaborate according to fancy, but the small quenelles are a very favourite in- gredient in allFrench vol-au-vent ; cookedmacaroni, too, cut in small pieces, is often mixed with the other ingredients. A vol-au-vent can also be made sweet by filling it with a good compote or puree of fruit and whipped cream. This is delicious. To Make a Vol-au-vent Case.—The very lightest form of puff pastry must be used for this, and it should only have had six turns (Recipe 1447). Roll out the pastry very evenly to about £ inch in thickness, and let it rest for a few minutes before cutting, to allow for shrinking. Then take an oval or round cutter the size required, and lay it on the top of the pastry, keeping it quite £ inch from the edge in order to have a perfectly even piece of paste. Then cut round with a sharp-pointed knife, holding the knife slanting outwards from the cutter so as to make the lower edge of the pastry slightly wider in circumference than the upper. Now remove the cutter, and place the cut piece of pastry on a wetted baking tin with the under side uppermost. During the baking the upper part of the vol-au-vent will shrink in width and become the same size as that which rests on the tin. Now brush over the top of the vol-au- vent with beaten egg, and with a knife or cutter mark a smaller round on the top, which can be removed afterwards to form the lid. Score the top across lightly with the knife, and pierce the pastry through to the tin two or three times. Then bake in a good oven about 40 minutes. When a nice colour and well risen, remove the vol-au-vent from the oven, lift off the little lid of pastry, or the inner circle, and with a fork scoop out all the soft paste from the centre, being careful not to break the edges. The case should not be filled until just before serving. Note.—For a very high vol-au-vent it is usual to cut two pieces of pastry the same size, stamping out the middle of one of them completely. When both are baked, lay one on the top of the other while hot, using a Uttle beaten egg to make them stick.