COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 230 cutlets and fry them in boiling fat until a golden brown. Drain well and put a paper frill on each bone. Dish them neatly, garnishing with nicely- cooked green peas. A little tomato, brown, or other suitable sauce may be served separately. 915. Lamb Cutlets, Grilled 7 or 8 lamb cutlets. Mashed potatoes. Salad oil or melted 1 gill good gravy. butter. Trim the cutlets neatly, shortening the bones if necessary, and brush them over on both sides with salad oil or melted butter. Grill them accord- ing to directions given on p. 208, turning them three or four times. They must be well cooked. When ready, put a paper frill on each bone, serve the cutlets on a border of mashed potatoes (see Recipe 543), and pour some good clear gravy round. A dish of green peas may be served separately. 916. Lamb Cutlets in Paper (Cotelettes d’Agneau en Papilottes) 6 lamb cutlets. 12 small shoes cooked ham. 1 shallot. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert - sp. chopped mushrooms. Lemon rind. Seasoning. A little oil or butter. Trim the cutlets neatly, shortening the bones if necessary. Cut twelve thin round slices of cooked ham, just large enough to fit over the round part of the cutlets. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, put in the shallot finely chopped and cook it a few minutes, add the mushrooms and parsley and season -with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind, mix well and let this cool. Cut out six heart-shaped pieces of strong white paper large enough to hold the cutlets, and grease them with a little oil or butter. Place a slice of ham on one half of each piece of paper, with a little of the chopped mixture on the top. Then lay in a cutlet with more mixture and another round of ham over that. Fold over the paper and twist the edges well together. When all the cutlets are thus prepared, place them on a greased baking tin and cook in a good oven. Serve them in the papers on a hot dish. If liked, a little good sauce may be served separately. Note.—Mutton cutlets may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, about £ hour. 917. Mutton Roll 1 lb. lean mutton. 6 oz. lean bacon. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. Rind of | lemon. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 table - sp. chopped pickles. 2 eggs. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. Trim the meat and bacon, cut them in pieces, and pass them once or twice through the mincing machine. Put this minced meat into a basin and add to it the chopped parsley, onion and pickles, the lemon rind grated, the herbs finely powdered, mixed spice, bread-crumbs and pepper and salt to taste. Mix well for a few minutes, then beat up the two eggs and ad enough to bind the mixtr and a little stock may be into a roll, wrap it in a double sheet of greased paper and roast it in a good oven, basting occa- sionally. When nearly ready, remove the paper, sprinkle the roll with bread-crumbs and return it to the oven to brown and finish cooking. When ready, lift the roll on to a hot dish and serve with a simple gravy or wdth tomato or piquante sauce poured round. Time to roast, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 on 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 918. Sheep’s Brains Cook according to any of the directions given for cooking calf’s brains. 919. Lamb’s Fry (Foie et Fressure d’Agneau) Lamb’s fry. | Lemon juice. Pareley. | 1 onion. 2 oz. butter. Wash and dry the fry, then cut the liver in slices and the heart and lungs in small pieces. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion finely chopped, and fry it a light brown colour. Then put in the heart and lungs and stir them over the fire for 7 or 8 minutes. Add the liver and seasoning and cook for 10 minutes longer or until all is well browned. Sprinkle wdth parsley, add the lemon juice, and serve very hot. This dish is suitable to serve en casserole. Mashed potatoes or a potato puree would be a good accompaniment. u mem graouauy, using re together. Or, one egg used. Form the mixture 920. Lamb’s Head, Dressed 1 lamb’s head. Boiling water. Salt. A bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Rolls of bacon. | lemon. Split the head in two and remove the brains and the tongue. Wash and scrape the head well, being careful to remove the gelatinous substance from the nostrils and nasal passages. Let it lie in cold salted water for | hour, rinse again in fresh water and then put it wdth the tongue into a sauce- pan with boiling water to cover it and a little salt. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add the bunch of herbs and onion stuck wdth cloves, and simmer very slowly until the meat will slip away quite easily from the bones. To Prepare the Sauce.—Wash the brains and soak them in cold salted water for 20 minutes, then tie them in muslin and cook them along with the head for 10 minutes. Lift them up, drain them and chop them. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, milk, and enough liquid from the head to make it of the right consistency. (It should be rather thick.) Add to it the chopped brains, parsley, and pepper and salt to taste. To Serve.—Lift the head from the liquid in which it was cooked, remove all meat from the bones, cut it in neat pieces, skin the tongue and cut it in slices. Then re-heat the meat in the sauce. Ar- range it neatly on a hot dish and garnish with rolls of bacon and slices of lemon. Time to cook, about 1J hours. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons.