SWEET MAKING 597 and requires very careful watching and the closest attention. Sugar boiling may be done over a gas stove, a gas ring, or an ordinary stove. Gas is generally to be preferred to file heat, as it can be so much more easily regulated. Commence by putting the sugar and water into a saucepan, and allowing them to melt slowly over the fire. This must on no account boil before the sugar is melted or it will be liable to grain. When quite dissolved, bring quickly to the boil, then put the lid on the pan, and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. This allows the steam to wash down the sides of the saucepan and rid them of any sugar crystals which may have formed. Then remove the lid and skim if necessary. Now put in the ther- mometer, which has been heated by placing it in a jug of hot water, and continue the boiling until the desired stage is reached. This will depend on the purpose for which the sugar is to be used. During this time the sides of the saucepan should be washed occasionally with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent crystals forming. If these were allowed to collect they rnignt cause the whole quantity of sugar to grain. For the same reason the syrup must on no account be stirred nor moved about after it has once reached boiling point. By graining is meant that the sugar has re-formed into crystals, and this has always to be guarded against. A little glucose or a small quantity of tartaric acid or other acid is generally added to prevent this. If by chance an accident should happen and the syrup should grain, add more cold water and begin the process of melting over again. When the required degree of boiling is reached and the syrup is not to be used at once, dip the bottom of the saucepan into cold water to arrest the boiling, or this will continue, even after the saucepan is removed from the fire. If the sugar has to be tested with cold water instead of the thermometer, use the water as cold as possible. Table of Degrees for Sugar Boiling The following are the different degrees to which sugar can be boiled : 1. Small thread. 2. Large thread. 3. Small pearl. 4. Large pearl. 5. Small blow or souffle. 6. Large bio wor feather. The most accurate way of gauging the degree to which sugar has been boiled is with the ther- mometer, but it may also be tested with cold water in the following manner : The Small Thread, 215° F. Dip the tip of the forefinger into the syrup, press it against the thumb, and on being separated the sugar should draw out in a fine thread, breakable at a very short distance. The Large Thread, 217° F. Test as above ; the sugar should draw out in rather a thicker and longer thread. The Small Pearl, 220° F. Test as above ; the thread of sugar should draw out to a greater distance still. Large bubbles will also begin to show on the syrup. The Large Pearl, 222° F. Test as above; open the fingers as wide apart as possible and the thread of sugar should not break. The surface of the syrup will be well covered with bubbles. The Small Blow or Souffle, 230° F. Dip a straw or a wire twisted to form a loop in the syrup, lift it out, blow through the little hole, and if bubbles appear on the other side this degree is reached. The Large Blow or Feather, 232° F. Test as for “small blow”; the bubbles shofSd be larger, and should fly off like little feathers. The Small or Soft Ball, 236° to 240° F. Drop a small quantity of the syrup into very cold water, and leave it a second or two. Then roll it between the thumb and forefinger, and if a small softish ball can be formed it is ready. The Large or Hard Ball, 247° to 252° F. Test as for “ small ball,” but the ball should be larger and harder. The Small Crack, 290° F. Drop a small quantity of the syrup into very cold water; when cold it should break, but feel sticky when bitten. The Large Crack, 312° F. Test as for “ small crack,” but the sugar should be short and brittle, and break clean when bitten. Caramel, 330° to 350° F. When the sugar has boiled a little longer and begins to turn brown it has reached the “ caramel ” stage. Great care must then be taken that it does not bum. SYRUPS FOR SWEET MAKING The following different syrups are required in the making of various sweets : 2855. Sugar or Stock Syrup 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 pt. water. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and dissolve them over the fire. When boiling, put the lid on the saucepan, and boil for 5 minutes, in order to wash down the sides of the saucepan. Now uncover, and allow the syrup to boil gently from 20 to 25 minutes. Set aside to cool, and then bottle ready for use. 2856. Coating Syrup | lb. granulated sugar. | A pinch of cream of | gill water. | tartar. Boil the ingredients to 236° F. according to direc- tions given above for sugar boiling. Colouring 7. Small balL 8. Large balL 9. Small crack. 10. I.arge crack. 11. CarameL