SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 233 932. Savoury Liver and Bacon £ lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. A little flour. Veal stuffing. 4 to 6 oz. bacon. £ pt. stock or gravy. 1 table-sp. ketchup. Mashed potatoes. . Wash the liver, dry it and cut it in slices about $ inch in thickness. Coat these lightly with flour and lay them on a greased baking tin. Then take some veal stuffing (Recipe 1281) and spread a little on the top of each slice of liver. Cover with a thin slice of bacon, pour the gravy or stock round, and cover with a piece of greased paper. Then bake in a good oven until the liver is thoroughly cooked. Have ready prepared some nicely mashed potato, pile this neatly in the centre of a dish, and arrange the slices of liver and bacon round. Then mix about 1 tea-spoonful of flour with the ketchup, add this to the gravy in the pan and stir until boiling. If too thick, add a little more stock or water. Skim well, season to taste, and pour this sauce round the dish. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 933. Sheep’s Tongues with Spaghetti 4 sheep’s tongues. Stock. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour. 1 table-sp. sherry. £ lb. spaghetti. Sheep’s tongues may be bought either uncooked or partially boiled. If uncooked, soak them in salt and water for two or three horns, and then rinse them. Put them into a stewpan with enough well-flavoured stock to cover them, and simmer slowly about two hours or until tender. If partially cooked, the tongues will not require soaking, and from \ to f of an hour will be sufficient to cook them. When ready, take them up, remove the skin, trim the roots, and cut each tongue in three lengthwise. Then make a sauce with the butter, flour, and stock. Put the butter into a small sauce- Ean and heat it undl it turns brown. Add the our and brown that also, then pour in about £ pint of the stock in which the tongues were stewed, and stir until boiling. Reheat the slices of tongue in the sauce, adding the sherry and seasoning to taste. Serve very hot with a border of well-cooked spag- hetti round. Notes.—A border of potatoes or spinach may be used instead of the spaghetti. A few chopped capers may be added to the sauce. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 934. Sheep’s Tongues, Fried Prepare and cook the tongues as in last recipe. Then cut them in halves lengthwise and remove all the. skin and gristle. Now season the pieces with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and roll them lightly in flour. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Dish them on a bed of spinach or pur6e of potatoes, and pour a little gravy or thin sauce round. 935. Sheep’s Tongues, Larded and Braised (Langues de Mouton Braisees) 4 sheep’s tongues. Larding bacon. A bed of vegetables. Brown stock. Tomato sauce. Fleurons of pastry or croutons of fried bread Slices of lemon. Choose fresh uncooked sheep’s tongues, and soak them in salt and water for 2 hours. Rinse them, put them in a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and bring slowly to the boil. Then peel the skin off the tongues, and trim the roots. Lard the tongues evenly with fine strips of fat bacon (see Larding, p. 205) and place them on the top of a bed of vegetables in a stewpan. Pour in enough stock to cover the vegetables, add a little salt, and lay a piece of greased paper over. Put the lid on the pan, and cook slowly from 2 to 3 hours, or until the tongues are tender. From time to time baste them with the stock, and add more stock if necessary. When the tongues are ready, lift them from the pan, place them on a tin, and put them in a hot oven for a few minutes, just long enough to brown the lardoons of bacon. Serve them on a hot dish, pour tomato sauce round, and garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry and thin shoes of lemon. Notes.—Brown, piquante, or any other suitable sauce may be used instead of the tomato. Spinach or some other green vegetable is a good accompani- ment to this dish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 936. Sheep’s Trotters, Stowed 1 set of skinned trotters. Stock. 1 onion. 2 cloves. Seasoning. A bunch of herbs. I dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Sippets of toast. Wash the trotters, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring to the boil, and throw the water away. Rinse the trotters again in cold water, then put them into a sauce- pan with enough stock or meat boilings to cover them. Add the onion with the two cloves stuck into it, the bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the meat will slip away easily from the bones. Then strain. Bone the trotters and cut the meat in several pieces. Return 1 tea-cupful of the stock to the saucepan, add to it the flour, broken smoothly with the milk, and stir until boiling. Add parsley and more seasoning if necessary. Put the pieces of meat into this sauce and allow them to reheat, then serve garnished with neat sippets of toast. Note.—Other sauces may be used instead of the above, such as tomato, piquante, caper, &c., the trotters being simply warmed in the sauce after cooking and boning. Time to cook,2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 2 persons. 937. Sheep’s Trotters, Baked with Tomatoes 1 set of trotters. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 or 3 table-sps. stock. Seasoning. 1 or 2 tomatoes. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A little butter. Prepare and cook the trotters as in last recipe. When tender, remove the meat from the bones and