409 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS Light puddings such as batter and those with beaten whites of eggs will require a hotter oven to make them rise. Puddings with pastry will also require a hot oven to begin with, until the crust is set and be- ginning to brown. A pudding that has to be baked should always be made a little moister than one for boiling or steaming, as the heat of the oven will tend to dry it up. If the baking is done in a pie dish, see that the rim of the dish is clean and free from grease before putting it in the oven; otherwise it will have a burnt and unsightly-looking appearance If the pie dish is an old one the rim may be covered with pastry before putting in the pudding mixturo (see below), this will make a more decorative- iooking pudding. On removing a baked pudding from the oven, wipe the dish carefully before sending it to table, then place it on another dish with a doily or dish paper under it. A pie-dish collar or paper frill may also be put round it if wished, and most baked puddings are improved by having a little sugar sprinkled over them. To Line and Decorate a Pie Dish with Pastry Many a simple pudding can be made into quite a dainty-looking sweet, if the pie dish in which it is to be baked is first lined with pastry. First wet the pie dish with cold water and leave it wet, as this will prevent the pastry from sticking too firmly to it. Then roll out some scraps of pastry very thinly. The pastry used should not be too rich, and if a piece of puff or flaky crust has to be taken, a little dry flour should be worked into it before it is rolled out. Cut a band of this pastry, 3 or 4 inches in depth, and lay it round the sides of the dish and over the rim. It ought to be brought slightly over the outer edge of the dish to prevent its shrinking away in the baking. Press the pastry well on to the dish, join neatly without over- lapping, and wet the join with a little cold water or white of egg. The bottom of the dish should never be lined with pastry, as it would only become sodden if a soft mixture were poured on the top of it. Next wet round the rim of pastry, and decorate this with small pieces of pastry cut out with a fancy cutter. Plain rounds the size of a shilling may be cut out and then pinched together in the form of a shell. If these are placed close together along the edge, it will give a very pretty effect. Or small stars of pastry may be cut out, laid flat on the rim, and then pressed down in the centre with the end of a pastry brush or wooden skewer. A quicker method of decorating the rim is simply to lay on an extra strip of pastry and mark it with the back of a knife in the same way as for an open tart. As a rule the mixture is poured into the pie dish and all is baked together, unless the mixture requires little cooking, when the pastry may be baked for a short time first. In this case it is better to put in a few crusts or other dummies to keep the pastry in shape, 1807. Baked Almond Pudding (Pouding aux Amandes) £ pt. milk. | breakfast-cupful bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 oz. butter. A little pastry. Line a 1^-pint pie dish with pastry, decorating it prettily round the edges (see above). Then prepare the mixture. Put the bread-crumbs, butter, and sugar into a basin and pour the milk boiling hot over them. Allow these to soak for a few minutes and then add the chopped almonds, flavouring, and yolks of eggs. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into the prepared pie dish, sprinkle a few shred almonds on the top, and bake in a good oven until the pudding is nicely browned and the pastry cooked. Note.—A little jam may be put at the bottom of the dish, and a meringue on the top of the pudding if wished. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1808. Apple Amber Pudding 1| lbs. apples. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. 1 lemon. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. A little pastry. 2 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Vanilla. Peel and slice the apples and put them into a saucepan with the butter, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and the grated rind of 1 lemon. Allow them to stew slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, or rub it through a sieve, and then add the yolks of the eggs. Line a pie dish with some good short crust or other pastry (see above), and pour into it the apple mixture. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is cooked and Apple Amber Pudding the apple mixture set. Then beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to them 1 table-spoonful of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Pile this meringue on the top of the pudding, decorate with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, and return to a cool oven to set and become delicately browned. Note.—Other fruits made into a puree may be used instead of apples. If a very juicy kind is chosen, a few bread-crumbs or cake-crumbs must be added to thicken it. Time to bake, | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d.