256 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD fire until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with some good gravy or tomato sauce poured round. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1043. Mince with Scrambled Egg l lb. cooked meat. 1 tea-cupful stock or gravy. 1 table - sp. tomato ketchup. 1 table - sp. bread - crumbs. 1 dessert - sp. chopped pickles. Seasoning. 2 or 3 scrambled eggs. Fried croutons of bread. Any nicely cooked meat may be used, or a mixture of two different kinds of meat together. Trim the meat carefully and put it through the mincing machine. Then put it into a saucepan with the stock or gravy and the bread-crumbs, and make all thoroughly hot. Season to taste with pepper, salt, chopped pickles, and tomato ketchup, or any other savoury sauce. Keep this warm without boiling, whilst preparing the eggs. Scramble the eggs as directed in Recipe 1325, adding to them the necessary ingredients. Serve the mince in a hot dish, pile the eggs in the centre, and garnish with a few pretty croutons of fried bread. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1044. Potted Meat 6 oz. cooked meat. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. Almost any kind of meat can be potted, and two different kinds of meat used together are always tastier than one, as, for instance, veal and ham, chicken and tongue, game and ham, fresh beef and spiced beef, mutton and tongue, &c. A little ham or other salted meat should, when possible, be used along with fresh meat in the proportion of one part salted to three parts fresh. Trim the meat first, removing from it all skin, gristle, and sinew, then mince it finely, or put it twice through the mincing machine. Put the minced meat into a mortar and season it rather highly, according to the kind of meat used, and also to suit individual taste. A great deal depends upon judicious seasoning, and one flavour must not predominate over another. Melt the butter and add it gradu- ally, keeping back enough to pour over the top of the potted meat when it is finished. Pound well in the mortar, and then rub the mixture through a wire sieve. Pack it into one or two small pots and run the remainder of the butter over the top. This makes a nice breakfast relish, and is also useful for making sandwiches. Note.—If some good ham or beef fat is minced along with the meat the proportion of butter may be reduced, but, unless there is a sufficiency of fat of some kind, the potted meat will not be a success. 1045. Rissoles l lb. cold cooked meat. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill of stock. 1 tea - sp. chopped onion. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Remove all skin and gristle from the meat, chop jt finely, or put it through the mincing machine, and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion, and cook for a few minutes over the fire. Then add the flour and stir until slightly browned. Pour in the stock and continue stirring until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Add the meat and seasonings and mix well together. Turn the mixture on to a plate, smooth it over with a knife, and set aside to cool. When cold, it will be firm and easy to shape. Portion it out into about twelve equal-sized pieces. Take the pieces one at a time and shape them on a board with the aid of a little flour. They may be made into any shape that fancy Rissoles dictates, such as cutlet shapes, balls, small rolls, round cakes, or cone shapes. The dish will look neater if only one or two shapes are used. Use as little flour as possible in the shaping, just sufficient to keep the mixture from sticking to the board. Then egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat until they are a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve hot with a dish paper or d’oyley under them. Note.—Any kind of meat may be used for making rissoles, or a mixture of meats if convenient. A little ham or tongue used along with fresh meat is always an improvement. Sufficient for 12 rissoles. 1046. Savoury Meat Rolls | doz. small dinner rolls. I 6 rolls of bacon. Cold meat mince. Choose the small, high-shaped dinner rolls. Take a thin slice off the top of each and scoop out as much of the inside as possible. Then fry them in boiling fat a minute or two and turn them upside down on paper to drain. Prepare some nice savoury mince as directed in Recipe 1011, well-seasoned and moistened with good sauce. Make this very hot and fill up the roll cases with it. Put a little roll of bacon on the top of each and heat in the oven a minute or two. Serve with a dish paper under them. Note.—A grilled mushroom may take the place of the roll of bacon. 1047. South African Bobo tee | lb. cooked meat. 1 slice bread. 1 gill milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 6 sweet almonds. 1 table - sp. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Any kind of cooked meat may be used. Remove from it all skin and gristle, and chop it finely or put it through a mincing machine. Take a medium- sized slice of bread without crust, and soak it in