COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 244 Notes.1—One or two pig’s feet may be cooked in the stew. They must be carefully washed and the bones cracked in three or four places. Salt pork may be used instead of fresh, but the meat must then be put on in cold water instead of hot, and then poured off when it comes to the boil, and fresh water added. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 985. Pork and Apple Pie 2 lbs. fresh lean pork. 2 lbs. potatoes. 2 onions. 2 large apples. 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. Salt. Pepper. 1 cupful stock. 1 oz. dripping. Wipe the pork and cut it in small pieces, remov- ing all skin and boner, and any superfluous fat. Season the meat with pepper, salt, and powdered sage, and mix well together. Scald the onions and cut them in thin slices, and slice also the apples and potatoes. Grease a pie-dish and put in the different ingredients in layers, making the topmost layer a thick one of sliced potatoes. Pour the stock over and lay on the dripping in small pieces. Stand the pie in a baking-tin with a little water round it, cover it with a tin or dish and bake in a good oven. About 4 hour before it is ready remove the cover and allow the pie to brown. Time to bake, 24 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 986. Pig’s Feet with Tomato Sauce Boiling water. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill tomato puree. Croutons of fried bread. 4 pig’s feet. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. _ Salt. Pepper. Wash and scrape the feet thoroughly, then split them lengthwise and put them in a baking tin with the split side downwards. Sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and the chopped onion, and pour in enough boiling water to cover them. Cover the tin and cook the feet in the oven until tender, basting them occasionally with the water and adding more if necessary. When ready, lift the feet on to a hot dish and keep them warm while the sauce is made. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, and then pour in 1 gill of liquid from the feet and 1 gill of tomato puree. Stir until boiling, season to taste, and cook a fewminutes. Strain this sauce over the feet, and garnish the dish with small croutons of fried bread or little sippets of toast. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 987. Stuffed Pig’s Feet 4 pig’s feet. 4 pt. water. 1 gill vinegar. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. (Pieds de Pore Farcis) 4 lb. pork sausage meat. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little butter and lard. Wash and scrape the feet thoroughly, split them in two and let them lie in salt and water for 1 hour. Then rinse them well and tie them together with tape. Put the water and vinegar into a saucepan and place them over the fire. 'When hot, put in the feet and bring to the boil. Skim well and add the onion, bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the feet are tender. When ready, lift them out, cool slightly, and remove the tape. Take out the bones and lay the fleshy part of the feet on a board. Season with pepper and salt, spread a little of the sausage meat over each, and shape again like the original feet. Coat them lightly with flour and then egg and bread-crumb. Fry in a frying pan in lard and butter mixed, and serve plain or with tomato, piquante, or Robert sauce. 988. Pig’s Feet, Broiled Cook the feet as in last recipe. When tender, remove the bones and dry the feet. Dip them in a little melted butter and roll them in bread-crumbs. Then broil over a clear fire or under the grill of a gas-stove. Serve with fried apples (Recipe 982) or with apple or gooseberry sauce. 989. Pig’s Fry or Harslet, Fried Pig’s fry. A little flour. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. dripping. 1 or 2 onions. 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. 4 pt. stock or gravy. The fry consists of the liver, heart, lungs, and sweetbread of the pig. Wash the fry carefully in several waters, then put it into a saucepan with warm water to cover it. Bring to the boil and simmer slowly for 15 minutes, skimming when necessary. Meanwhile skin and chop the onions rather finely, put them into a small saucepan with the stock, powdered sage, and a seasoning of pepper and salt, and let them cook until soft. When the fry has simmered the required time drain it, rinse in fresh cold water, and dry in a cloth. Now cut it in slices and coat the pieces lightly with flour seasoned with pepper and salt. Melt the dripping in a frying pan ; when smoking hot put in the prepared fry and cook it until well browned on all sides. Then lift it on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Pour the onions with their gravy into the frying pan, allow all to boil for 5 minutes, scraping down any browning from the pan. Then pour round the fry and serve very hot. 990. Pig’s Fry, Stewed 1 lb. pig’s fry. 1 or 2 slices of bacon. 1 carrot. 1 or 2 onions. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. red-currant jelly- 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 4 pt. warm water. 1 table-sp. flour. Wash and trim the fry, then dry it and cut it in small neat pieces, using both the fat and lean. Trim the bacon and cut it in small pieces also. Then heat a frying pan, put in the prepared meat, and stir over the fire until well browned. Now turn all into a jar or fireproof casserole and add the vegetables, cut in small pieces, and other in- gredients. Cover closely and cook in the oven from 14 to 2 hours. Or, if more convenient, the jar containing the fry, &c., may be stood in a saucepan of boiling water and cooked on the top of the stove. When nearly ready, mix the flour with a little water, add it to the stew and cook about 15 jninutes longer,