BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 587 Time to bake, 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. from the oven is great, stand the cake on a bed of lined with greased paper, and bake in a good oven until firm to the touch and a pale brown colour. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, la. ' sand placed on a baking tin, or put a tile or briok under the tin. Time to bake, about | hour. Probable cost, &d. 2825. Soda Cake 1 lb. flour. £ lb. currants. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. £ lb. sugar. 3 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. A little milk (about 1 gill). Sieve the flour, sugar, and nutmeg into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Add the fruit, carefully prepared, and make a well in the centre. Beat up the eggs in a smaller basin with a fork, and pour them in, then the soda dissolved in the milk, slightly warmed. Mix quickly, beat for a few minutes, and pour into a greased tin. Bake immediately in a good oven, until the cake is well risen and feels firm to the touch. This cake should be eaten the day it is made, or the day after ; it soon becomes dry. Note.—A few caraway seeds may be added to the above mixture if wished. Time to bake, 1£ to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 2826. Spice Cake (Plain) 1 lb. flour. 1 egg- 1 dessert-sp. baking powder. £ lb. beef dripping. £ lb. sifted sugar. £ lb. currants. 2 oz. candied peek 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. Milk (about £ pt.). Sieve the flour into a basin and rub in the drip- ping with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then add the fruit, carefully prepared, and the other dry ingredients. Mix these together, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg, well beaten, and enough sweet milk to bind all together, and make a softish dough. The mixture should just be moist enough to drop from the spoon. Pour quickly into a well-greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost, lOd. 2827. Sponge Cake 6 oz. loaf sugar. 1 wineglassful water. £ lb. flour (Vienna). 2 whole eggs and 1 yolk. Grated lemon rind. Put the sugar and water into a small lined sauce- pan, bring them to the boil, and simmer slowly for 5 minutes. Beat the eggs slightly in a basin with a wire whisk, and pour the syrup of sugar and water on to them, stirring all the time. Then whisk steadily for half an hour, until the mixture looks light and froth}7 and is well risen in the basin. Dry and sieve the flour, and mix it in very lightly at the last, with a little grated lemon rind or any other flavouring preferred. Pour the mixture into a cake tin prepared according to directions given on p. 551, and do not more than half fill the tin. Bake the cake in a very steady oven until it is well risen and feels firm to the touch. If the heat 2828. Strawberry Short Cake, 1 £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. £ lb. sugar. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. About 1 gill milk. Grated lemon rind. Filling. 1 gill double cream. £ lb. strawberries. Sugar. Put the butter into a warm basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar, and mix a little grated lemon rind with it. Add this to the creamed butter, then the egg and a little flour, and mix well. Mix the baking powder with the remainder of the flour, and add them gradually with the milk. Beat all well to- gether, and bake in two sandwich cake tins lined with paper. Bake in a moderate oven, and when nicely browned and firm to the touch, turn the cakes out on sugared paper, and allow them to cool. Filling.—Whip the cream, and sweeten it to taste, adding a few drops of vanilla or other flavouring if liked. Husk the strawberries, and cut them in slices or small pieces with a silver knife. Spread a layer of cream on one of the cakes, then a layer of strawberries with a little more cream on the top. Place the other cake over, and spread the remainder of the cream on the top. Decorate with a few whole strawberries and a sprinkling of ohopped pistachio nuts. Time to bake, about 25 minutes. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 3d. 2829. Strawberry Short Cake, 2 £ lb. flour. 1£ tea-sps. baking powder. £ tea-sp. salt. 1 oz. butter. Milk. 1 lb. strawberries. £ lb. castor sugar. 3 whites of eggs. Sieve the baking powder and salt with the flour, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then stir in lightly and quickly sufficient milk to make a soft dough—too soft to roll. Turn it into a flat round tin that has been greased and floured, and bake in a hot oven until brown and well risen. Then unmould, cut a circle around the top of the cake within 1 inch of the edge, and lift off the circle of crust. With a fork pick out the crumb from the centre, being careful not to break through the sides. Crush the strawberries slightly, and sprinkle them with half the sugar. Let them stand for half an hour, and strain off some of the juioe. Fill up the cake with the strawberries, and replace the circle of crust. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add the remainder of the sugar to them. Heap this meringue irregularly on the top of the cake. (A forcing bag may be used to give it a more orna- mental form.) Place it in the oven for a minute or two to colour the meringue slightly. Sprinkle with sugar, and decorate with a few whole straw- berries. Serve the juice from the strawberries as a sauce. Notes.—Short cake should be freshly made and used as soon as possible. Whipped cream may be used instead of the meringue.