COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CEEAMS 443 carmine, and the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix very lightly, pour all into a wet mould, and allow it to set. Turn out when wanted. Notes.—Another method of serving the sponge is to pile it up, when almost set, on a glass dish and to decorate it with a few whole raspberries. A few red currants mixed with the raspberries will help to improve the flavour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. white of an egg, and finish in the same way as Lemon Sponge (Recipe 1977). 1993. Wjne Jelly (Gelee au Vin) Make in the same way as Lemon Jelly (Recipe 1968), using a gill or more of sherry or other wine in place of some of the water and lemon juice. 1988. Rhubarb Mould or Jelly (Moule a la Rhubarbe) 1 lb. rhubarb. 6 oz. sugar. 1 gill water. Gelatine. A few drops of carmine. Custard sauce. Wipe the rhubarb, but do not peel it. Put it into a lined saucepan with the water and sugar, and cook slowly until reduced to a pulp. Then rub through a hair sieve. Measure the liquid, and to each half-pint allow half an ounce of gelatine. Put both together into a saucepan, and stir over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain into a basin, add a few drops of carmine, and let it cool slightly. Then pour all into a wet mould, and set aside to cool. When firm, turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1989. Ribbon Jelly (Gel6e Rubanfie) 1 qt. clear jelly. 1 table-sp. maraschino. 1 table-sp. strawberry syrup. A few drops of car- mine. - 2 table-sps. cream. 1 table-sp. noyeau. Take 1 quart of plain jelly made rather stiffer than for ordinary use, and divide it into three equal parts. Flavour one part with maraschino, the second with strawberry syrup, deepening the colour with a few drops of carmine. To the third add the cream, and flavour with noyeau or any other flavour, and whip until it is frothy. Fill a mould with these three jellies in layers, and keep in a cool place until wanted. Note.—The flavouring may be altered to suit individual taste. 1999. Russian Jelly (GelSe a la Russe) Prepare some whipped jelly (see below), and divide it into two equal parts. Colour one part pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal, and leave the other part white. Then, before the jelly is too stiff, put the two kinds in spoonfuls into a wet mould, arranging them quite irregularly. Shake the jelly well down into the mould, and put it aside to set. Turn out when firm. Instead of moulding, the two different colours of jelly may be piled up on a glass dish. 1991. Strawberry Sponge Make in the same way as Raspberry Sponge (Recipe 1987), using strawberries instead of rasp- berries. 1992. Whipped Jelly Take any clear jelly or remains of jelly, and make it just liquid by standing it in a basin over a saucepan of hot water. Then whip it with a wire whisk until it is white and frothy like the PART III CUSTAEDS AND CEEAMS 1994. Apricot Cream (Creme d’Abricots) \ pt. apricot puree. | pt. double cream. | oz. sheet gelatine. 2 table-sps. water or syrup from the apricots. 2 oz. castor sugar. Squeeze of lemon juice. A few drops of car- mine. Decorations Sweet jelly. Pieces of apricot and pistachio nuts. Prepare the mould, and decorate it with the above decorations (see p. 432). Set this aside until the jelly stiffens. Make the puree by rubbing tinned apricots through a hair sieve. Use a little of the syrup from the tin, so that the puree is not too thick, and measure the half-pint after sieving. Put the puree into a basin, and stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water until the contents are slightly warm. Unless this is done the gelatine will not mix properly with it. Cut the gelatine into pieces with a pair of scissors, and put it into a small saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of water or apricot syrup. Stir it over the fire until quite dis- solved, strain it into the apricot puree, and mix well. Add the sugar and a squeeze of lemon juice. The quantity of sugar may be regulated according to taste. Whip the cream in a separate basin until quite thick, and then mix it lightly with the other ingredients. Add enough carmine to make the cream of a peachy colour, not too pink, and stir occasionally until beginning to set. Then pour it into the prepared mould, and place in a cool place or on ice until set. When required, turn out on a glass or silver dish, and put a border of chopped jelly round. Notes.—This is an example of a fruit cream, and other fruit creams can be made in the same way. If fresh apricots are used, they must be stewed first in a little water. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 1995. Apricot Mousse \ oz. gelatine. 1 gill double cream. 2 whites of eggs. | pt. apricot puree. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. £ gill syrup from apricots Prepare the apricot puree by rubbing some tinned apricots through a fine sieve along with some of the syrup. Then dissolve the gelatine in about b gill of the syrup, strain it into the puree and mix well. Now whip the cream and beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix all together very lightly, flavour with essence of almonds, and make the mousse peach-coloured with two or three drops