42 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Add the seasonings, and let the soup simmer for 10 minutes, removing any scum that may rise. Add the wine last and serve with crohtons of fried bread or toast cut in dice. Note.—A garnish of vegetables may be added to the soup if wished. If the stock used is not well flavoured, add small pieces of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery to the soup, cook it for 1 hour at least, and strain before serving. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost, Is. Quan- tity, 2 pints. 5. Broth with Potato Dumplings 3 pts. good broth or brown stock. 1 head of celery. 1 table-sp. chopped par- sley. Seasoning. Potato dumplings. Any stock or broth may be used for this soup, but it must be well flavoured and of a good colour. Remove from it all grease, strain it into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Season to taste and add the celery, well washed and cut in fine shreds. Boil 10 to 15 minutes, or until the celery is nearly tender. Then add the potato dumplings (see Recipe 1293), cook them 5 minutes, sprinkle in the parsley, and the soup will be ready for serving. Time to cook, about \ hour. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 3 pints. 6. Cock-a-Leekie 1 old fowl. 6 or 8 leeks. 1 table-sp. chopped par- sley. 2 qts. of cold water. 2 or 3 table-sps. whole rice. White pepper and salt. An old cock is frequently used for this soup, hence the name. Draw and truss it as for boiling. Put it into a large saucepan with two quarts of cold water, or enough to cover it. Add the giblets care- fully washed and a good teaspoonful of salt. Bring slowly to the boil and skim well. Then simmer slowly for 2 hours, skimming when necessary. Cut the roots and most of the green off the leeks. Re- move the outside skin and split them in halves lengthways. Wash and rinse them thoroughly, cut them in thin slices with a sharp knife and wash again. Drain in a sieve or colander and add them to the soup along with the rice well washed. Simmer all together for 2 hours longer, or until the bird is tender. To serve, lift out the fowl and giblets from the soup, remove all grease from the top, and add the parsley and necessary seasoning. The fowl may either be served whole with parsley or egg sauce poured over it (see Boiled Fowl, Recipe 1127), or half of it may be cut in small pieces and served in the soup and the other half reserved for some other dish. Notes.—Any old game bird may be used for making this soup instead of the fowl. A few stewed prunes or French plums are sometimes served in this soup. The stones must of course be removed. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Cost uncertain. Quantity, 3 pints. 7. Cow-heel Soup (Soupe de Pled de Bceuf) 1 cow-heel. 2 qts. meat boilings. 2 onions. 1 carrot. A small bunch of herbs. Some ham trimmings. Rind of 1 orange. Juice of J orange. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. dripping or butter. Seasoning. Wash and scrape the cow-heel well, dividing it into four or five pieces. Then blanch it, unless this has already been done by the butcher—put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil and pour the water away, rinsing the heel again with cold water. When thoroughly clean, put it into a large saucepan with the meat boilings and a little stock, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim if necessary, add the vegetables cut in pieces, the bunch of herbs, ham trimmings or a small ham bone, and the rind of the orange peeled off very thinly. Simmer all slowly until the flesh slips away easily from the bone of the cow- heel and add more water if the quantity should reduce too much. When ready strain, remove all fat from the top of the stock, and cut the flesh in small pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan and let it brown slightly, mix in the flour and brown that also, then add the stock and stir until boiling. Skim and add more seasoning if necessary, also the pieces of flesh and orange juice. Note,—A glass of port wine and a few forcemeat balls added to the soup will make it like mock-turtle. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 8. Croute-au-Pot This is Pot-au-Feu (Recipe 22) served with toasted bread and a garnish of vegetables. Cut a round roll in slices and toast the slices or bake them in the oven until a golden brown colour on both sides. Place those in the soup tureen and moisten them with a little of the hot soup or bouillon. Then fill up with more boiling hot bouillon and add some of the vegetables from the pot-au-feu, cut in small pieces. A little chopped parsley or chopped chives may also be added. Sometimes the bread is dipped in the bouillon before being toasted in the oven. 9. Giblet Soup (Potage aux Abatis) 2 or 3 sets of giblets. 3 pts. second stock 1 carrot. 1 small turnip. 1 onion stuck with 4 cloves. A small ham bone. A bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat 1 oz. flour. 1- glass sherry or mar- sala. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. The giblets of a fowl include as a rule the head, neck, liver, heart, gizzard, feet, and sometimes the pinions as well. Those of a duck, goose, turkey, or chicken may be used for making this soup. If turkey giblets are selected, a larger proportion of stock must be allowed. Wash and scald the giblets well, removing any ends of feathers. Skin the feet, remove the beak and split the heads in two, remove the inside skin from the gizzards, cut all in small pieces and dry them well. Now melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan, lay in the prepared giblets and fry them until nicely browned. Pour