PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 417 Note.—The pastry may be omitted. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1853. Baked Sponge Pudding l lb. flour. 3 oz. butter or mar- garine. 3 oz. sugar. 1 gill milk. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Flavouring. Sieve the flour into a basin, and rub in the fat until free from lumps. Sieve the sugar and baking powder on the top, and mix them in thoroughly. Then make a well in the centre, pour in the egg well beaten, with the milk and flavouring. Mix all together, put the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a moderate oven until well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Serve with jam or fruit sauce. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1854. Baked Sultana Pudding \ lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 3 oz. butter or lard. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. 1 egg. 3 oz. sultanas. 1 tea-cupful milk. A little candied peel. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter or lard until free from lumps. Pick and clean the sultanas and add them with the sugar, a little finely-shred candied peel, and flavouring to taste. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten and then the milk gradu- ally. Mix well'together, put the mixture into a greased Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, cut in square pieces, sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 ur 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1855. Swiss Apple Pudding 11 lbs. apples. | pt. water. 3 or 4 oz. sugar. Grated rind and juice of | lemon. 3 or 4 slices bread and butter. Stew the apples with the water, sugar, lemon rind and juice until they are quite soft and pulpy. Remove the crust from the bread and butter, and cut it in strips. Then grease a pie dish, or fireproof dish, and put the stewed apples and bread and butter into it in layers. The last layer should be bread with the buttered side uppermost. Sprinkle a little granulated sugar over the top, wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. Custard sauce or cream may be served separately. Note.—Brown or white bread-crumbs may be used instead of the bread and butter. In that case, a little finely-chopped suet should be mixed with the bread-crumbs, and some pieces of butter put on the top of the pudding before baking. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1856. Another Way Rind and juice of J lemon. Browned crumbs. 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. chopped suet. 4 or 5 apples. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. Take a plain mould or pie dish, grease it well, and line it with browned bread-crumbs. Put the bread-crumbs, suet, and sugar into a basin, add the apples, peeled, cored, and roughly chopped, flavour with grated lemon rind and juice, and mix well together. If the apples are not juicy, a little water or milk may also be added. Fill up the prepared mould or dish with this mixture, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with custard sauce or cream. Note.—The pudding may be made richer by adding one or two beaten eggs to the mixture. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1857. Sylvan Pudding £ lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 3 oz. butter. 1 egg. 3 oz. sugar. A little milk. A pinch of salt. 2 table-sps. jam. Sieve the flour, sugar, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre and add the egg and enough milk to make a thick batter. Beat well for a few minutes. Put the jam into a greased pie dish, pour the batter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and well risen. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Note.—Stewed fruit may be used instead of jam, and the mixture may be steamed instead of baked. Time to bake, J to £ hour. Probable cost, 9d. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1858. Walnut Pudding £ lb. bread-crumbs. £ lb. shelled walnuts. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. A little grated lemon rind. 1 pt. milk. Put the bread-crumbs and sugar into a basin with a little grated lemon rind. Heat the milk, and pour it over them. Toast the walnuts in the oven for a few minutes, then pound them in a mortar or chop them finely. Add them to the bread-crumbs, &c., with the yolks of eggs, and mix well. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and well risen. Notes.—The pie dish may be lined with pastry before putting in the mixture (see p. 409). A little strawberry or any nice jam may be put into the dish first. Time to bake, i hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1859. West Riding Pudding \ tea-sp. baking powder. A little flavouring. 2 table-sps. jam. Some scraps of pastry, dish and line it with 2 eggs. The weight of the eggs in butter, flour, and castor sugar. Take a lj-pint pie some scraps of pastry (see p. 409). Make the mix-