61 STOCKS AND SOUPS brown colour. Then sprinkle in the flour, mix well, and add the stock by degrees. Bring to the boil, season to taste, and boil from 15 to 20 minutes. Then strain and return to a clean saucepan. Add the filleted fish cut in small pieces and allow it to cook in the soup. Cut the French roll in small slices and brown them slightly in the oven. Put these into a hot soup tureen and pour the soup boiling hot over them. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 106. Fish Soup, 3 2 pts. fish stock. I 1 table-sp. cornflour. \ pt. milk. | Pepper and salt. 1 egg. To Make the Slock.—Take any fresh trimmings of fish, bones, heads and white skin, wash them carefully and break them in small pieces. Put them into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover them, and let them simmer by the side of the fire until the flavour is well extracted. Then strain through a fine sieve or strainer, measure the stock, and allow the other ingredients in the above proportions. To Finish the Soup.—Return the stock to a clean sauoepan, break the cornflour smoothly with the milk and add it to it, then stir over the fire until boiling. Season with white pepper and salt, and simmer five minutes in order to cook the corn- flour thoroughly. Beat up the egg and put it in the soup tureen, then pour the soup slowly on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with sippets of toast. Note.—This is a very simple and delicious fish soup, and differs from other fish soups in having no vegetable flavouring. Time to cook, 1 hour. Quantity, 2\ pints. 107. Fish Mulligatawny (Mulligatawny de Poisson) 1£ lbs. white fish or trimmings. 1| oz.butter or dripping. l| oz. rice flour. 3 pints water or fish stock. 1 onion. Salt. 1 small carrot, i turnip. | oz. curry powder. | pt. milk or 1 gill of cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wash the fish well and cut it into small pieces. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, add to it the vegetables all prepared and cut in very thin slices, and cook them for a few minutes over the fire. Add the curry powder and rice flour—mix these well in. Then put in the fish and stock or water, stir until boiling, and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Lift out some nice pieces of fish and reserve them for serving in the soup. Simmer from l£ to 2 hours longer, skimming when neces- sary. Strain through a fine wire sieve into a basin, rubbing through a little of the fish and vegetables, but be careful that none of the bones pass through. Rinse out the saucepan, and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the milk, small pieces of fish, lemon juice, sugar, and more seasoning if neces- sary. Serve with plain boiled rice on a separate dish. Time to cook, 2\ hours. Quantity, 2\ pints. 108. Lobster Soup, from Tinned Lobster 1 qt. fish stock. £ pt. milk. 1| oz. butter. 1£ oz. cornflour. \ tin of lobster. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. First melt the butter in a saucepan, add the corn- flour, and when well mixed pour in half the stock. Stir until boiling, and add the remainder of the stock and any trimmings from the lobster. Simmer for £ hour and strain through a sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan and add the milk, anchovy essence, seasoning, and lobster broken in small pieces. Simmer a few minutes to soften the lobster. Put the yolk of egg in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup gradually on to it, stirring all the time. A little cream may be added if wished. Time to cook, f hour. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 109. Mussel Soup (Potage aux Moules) 2 dozen mussels. 2 pts. white or fish stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A pineh of cayenne. | pt. milk. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. A squeeze of lemon juice. White pepper and salt. Soak the mussels in water for half an hour, and then clean them thoroughly (see p. 109). Put them into a stewpan with a little salt, and shake them over the fire for a few minutes, being careful they do not brown. As soon as the shells open, take them off the fire, and separate the mussels from the shells. Strain and reserve the liquor. Very carefully remove the beard, which looks like a piece of seaweed, and any small stones. Melt the butter in a saucepan, but do not let it discolour; add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Pour in the stock, and stir con- stantly until boiling, and skim if necessary. Add the milk, mussels and their liquor, and season to taste with white pepper, salt, anchovy essence, and a pinch of cayenne. Add a squeeze of lemon juice just before serving. Serve with toast. Note.—One or two yolks of eggs beaten up with a little cream may be added instead of the milk. Time to cook, J to 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints. 110. Skate Soup (Potage de Raie) 1| lbs. skate. 3 pts. cold water. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 blade of mace. Some parsley stalks. stick horse radish. 1 onion. 1 oz. vermicelli. A small bunch of herbs. Pepper and salt. Wash the fish carefully and put it into a saucepan with the cold water and a little salt. Bring to the boil, skim well, and simmer for half an hour, or until the skate is cooked. Lift out the skate, remove the best pieces of flesh from the bones, reserving them for serving in the soup. Return the bones, &c., to the pan, and add now the onions, horse radish well washed, lemon rind peeled very thinly, parsley stalks, mace, and herbs. Let this all boil for two hours, then strain through a sieve into a basin. Return the liquor to the saucepan with the vermi- celli, slightly broken up. Boil gently for fifteen minutes, season with pepper and more salt if neces- sary, and add the pieces of skate. Serve with toast. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Quantity, 2\ pints.