COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 124 The Potato Noisettes and Bearnaise Sauce.— Recipes 562 and 708. To Serve.—Arrange the artichoke bottoms in a circle on a hot entree dish, and place a piece of fish on the top of each, with one end pointing towards the centre. Pile the potato noisettes in the centre, and serve the sauce separately. Note.—A few chopped truffles may be added to the sauce. Time, 20 minutes to cook the fish. Sufficient for 7 persons. 385. River Trout a la Riviere a la 3 or 4 trout. Whiting farce. 3 onions. 1 oz. butter. Paprika pepper. Salt. Hongroise (Truites de Hongroise) 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 glass white wine. 1 on 2 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A little stock. Choose small onions, peel and chop them finely, and cook them slowly in the butter without allow- ing them to brown. Make some whiting farce (see Recipe 79), and add 1 table-spoonful of this cooked onion to it and a little chopped parsley. Draw the fish without opening them, trim and wash them carefully. Wipe them in a clean cloth and stuff them with the farce, using a tea-spoon to press it well into the opening. If a number of fish are being stuffed this is more easily done with a forcing bag. Lay the stuffed fish in the sauce- pan with the remainder of the onion, season them with pepper and salt, add the tomatoes cut in pieces (or a little tomato puree may be used), and pour the white wine over. Cover the fish with greased paper, and cook them in the oven without letting them boil. They must only poach about a quarter of an hour. When ready, lift the fish on to a dish and keep them warm while the sauce is prepared. Sauce.—Reduce the wine, &c., left in the sauce- pan to about half the quantity, then add to it a iittle stock to make sufficient sauce. Bring to the boil, add 1 oz. butter, mixed with 1 dessert-spoonful of flodr, give the sauce again one boil up, then rub it through a sieve. Reheat, adding more seasoning if necessary. The sauce should be a pretty pink colour. Pour the sauce over the fish, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 386. Trout a la Princesse (Truite a la Prlncesse) 1 small salmon trout. Garnish. 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. A little butter. Mayonnaise sauce. Spinach green. Shrimp or anchovy flavouring. I emon. Aspic or fish jelly. To Prepare the Trout.—Clean and prepare the trout, and cook it in a court bouillon (see p. 79). Allow it to cool in this, and then place it on the dish on which it is to be served. Then cut the upper part into convenient-sized pieces, so that it can easily be served. This must be done without destroying the appearance of the fish. First make a cut right down the centre to the back bone, then cut each side across into several pieces. Now slip the knife under the flesh so as to free it from the bone, and to make it possible to remove them without effort. Garnish.—Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and slice a small piece off each to make them stand steadily. Take out the yolks and rub them through a sieve, then divide this sieved mixture in two and put each portion into a small basin. To one portion add a little butter, and some shrimp or anchovy essence or paste to flavour. Mix well, season to taste and, if necessary, add a few drops of carmine to make it a pretty pink colour. To the other portion of sieved yolk add some green mayonnaise and, if necessary, a little spinach green to make the mixture a nice green colour. To Serve.—Place the little egg cups round the fish, alternating the colours green and pink. Put a row of thinly-sliced lemon down the centre of the fish where it is cut, and then decorate with any of the two egg mixtures which happens to be left. Garnish the edge of the dish with cut lemon, brush the fish over with melted aspic or fish jelly, and serve all very cold. Hand green mayonnaise (Recipe 754) separately. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 387. River Trout with Tomato Mousse (Truites de Riviere au Mousse de Tomates) 3 or 4 small trout. 1 glass white wine. 1 shallot. Seasoning. Aspic jelly. Wipe the trout carefully, draw them through the gills and cut off the fins. Place them in a greased baking dish, with the shallot finely chopped, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Pour a glass of white wine round, cover the fish with greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a folded cloth, remove the skin from one side and let them cool. Tomato Mousse.—Make the puree with fresh or tinned tomatoes by rubbing them through a hair sieve. If fresh ones are used they must first be cooked for a short time with a little butter and seasoning. The puree ought to be fairly thick and of a good colour. Warm it slightly, add to it the aspic jelly and the gelatine dissolved in a little water. Season to taste, stir in the cream slightly whipped at the last, and stir occasionally until almost set. To Serve.—Arrange the tomato mousse on the dish on which the fish is to be served. Make a flat bed and smooth it over with a wet knife. Lay the fish on the top, and decorate them with leaves of tarragon, fancy-shaped pieces of white of egg, and the red part of tomato, or any other decoration pre- ferred. Brush over with aspic jelly, using it in a setting condition, and decorate round the dish with thin slices of lemon. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Tomato Mousse, h pt. puree of tomatoes. 3 table-sps. liquid aspic 3 table-sps. cream. 2 sheets gelatine. Seasoning.