POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 299 with pepper and salt, turn the meat once more, and then serve on a hot dish with the liquid from the pan poured round. Red-currant or quince jelly should be served separately, and potato balls and celery salad would be good accompaniments. 1221. Venison Stew 2 lbs. venison. 3 oz. bacon fat or dripping 2 table-sps. flour. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. Rind of lemon. 2 table-sps. vinegar. 1 pt. hot stock or water. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. Croutons of pastry. Any scraps of venison may be used for stewing, as long as they are good and free from taint. Wipe them carefully, and cut in small pieces about 1 inch square, removing all skin and gristle. Then toss them in the flour, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a stewpan; when smoking hot put in the meat and chopped onion, and turn them over and over with a spoon until well browned. Next add the stock or water and vinegar, and stir until well mixed. Put the lid on the pan and cook the stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until the venison feels tender. Then add the red- currant jelly, the grated rind of 1 lemon, and more seasoning if necessary. Cook a few minutes longer, and serve garnished with croutons of pastry. Stewed celery, a green vegetable or salad would be a good accompaniment. Time to cook, 2 to 2\ hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1223. Noisettes of Venison h la Diana (Noisettes de Chevreuil a la Diana) 6 or 7 noisettes of venison A marinade. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 6 or 7 croutons fried bread. 2 table-sps. sour cream. Pur6e of chestnuts. 1 or 2 truffles. Cut six or seven neat round cutlets or noisettes of venison, cover them with a hot marinade (see Recipe 1199), and let them stand 3 or 4 hours. Then remove the meat from the marinade and dry the pieces in a cloth. Heat the oil in a saute or frying pan, and saute the meat in it until sufficiently cooked. Place each piece of meat on a round crouton of fried bread and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish. Put some puree of chestnuts (Recipe 1628) into a forcing bag, force it out in the centre, and pour the following sauce over : Sauce Smitane.—Pour away the oil from the pan in which the meat was cooked, pour into it a little of the marinade, and rub down into it any of the juice left from the meat. Reduce well, then add the sour cream and mix together. Note.—Small noisettes of mutton may be served in the same way. They must not be overcooked, but left red in the middle. Sufficient for 6 persons. 1224. Reindeer Tongues Cook in the same way as Ox Tongues (Recipe 222), only they will require longer soaking. Success depends entirely on the soaking and long slow cooking. 1222. Venison en Casserole (Chevreuil en Casserole) 1£ lbs. venison. £ lb. bacon. 1£ oz. flour. 3 gills water, ltable-sp.choppedonion 1 dessert-sp. red-currant jelly. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Seasoning. Forcemeat balls. Choose a nice fleshy piece of venison, wipe it and trim it carefully, and cut it in pieces about an inch square. Trim all rind and rust from the bacon, and cut it in thin strips. Place these in a hot frying pan and fry them gently a few minutes, without allowing them to become too brown and crisp. When ready, place the pieces of bacon in an earthenware casserole, leaving the liquid fat in the frying pan. Now coat the pieces of venison with the flour and fry them in the bacon fat until a rich brown colour. 'When ready, put them in the casserole beside the pieces of bacon. Then pour the water into the frying pan and stir until boiling, rubbing into it all the browning from the sides and bottom of the pan. Skim if necessary, and strain over the venison. Add the onion, red-currant jelly, lemon juice, and seasoning to taste. Put the lid on the casserole and stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until the meat is tender. About 15 minutes before serving add some small forcemeat balls, made according to Recipe 1288. Serve in the casserole. Mashed potatoes and spinach would be good accompaniments. Note.—Wine may be added if wished, and less water used. Time to cook, 2 to 2£ hours. Sufficient for 4 or C persons. PART III GAME BIRDS Hints on Choosing Game.—It is rather more difficult to choose game than it is to choose poultry, as the birds are usually sold unplucked, but still some of the same signs will hold good. The young birds are known by their smooth and pliable legs and short rounded spurs. The feet should be supple and moist, and easily broken. The feathers also help to indicate the age of the bird; when young there are soft and downy ones under the wing and on the'breast. The plumage of the young bird is even and soft, the long feathers of the wings are pointed, while in the older bird these become round, and the colours are usually brighter. The condition of the bird can be judged by turn- ing back the feathers of the breast and seeing if it feels plump and hard ; it should also weigh heavily for its size. For the Hanging and Keeping of Game.—(See under The Larder, p. 31.) Hints on Cooking Game.—Pluck the birds very carefully, as the flesh will be tender, especially if they have been well hung. All game should be drawn, with a few exceptions. Never wash the birds unless the flesh is tainted, but simply wipe them outside and inside with a damp cloth. As a rule, the simpler the method of cooking game the better. Well-roasted game is always superior to anything more complicated. It is only when