EXPLANATION OF FRENCH AND OTHER TERMS 639 Cannelon—Small rolls, generally of pastry, filled witli a delicate mince mixture. Capilotade—A kind of hash, generally of game or chicken. Carte du jour—Menu for the day. Casserole—A saucepan ; the case in which a ragout or compote is served. Cassolette—A small case for holding mince, or ragout, &c. Cassonade—Moist sugar. Cervelas—A kind of smoked sausage. Chapelure—Dried bread-crumbs. Charcuterie—Various parts and preparations of pork, such as sausages, pig’s feet, liver, black puddings, &c. Charlotte—Generally applied to a mould that is lined with strips of bread or finger biscuits, and filled with a cream or fruit mixture. Chartreuse—Applied to moulds of fruit and jelly, also to various savoury mixtures moulded. Chaudfroid—Applied to a sauce used for coating pieces of meat, game, fish, &c., to be served cold; that which is coated with chaudfroid sauce. Chijfonade—Herbs finely shred for soup. Choucroule (German, Sauer kraut)—A German national dish, a kind of pickled cabbage. Chow-chow—A kind of pickle ; vegetable preserved in a very hot sauce. Chowder—An American dish consisting of pickled pork, fish, and potatoes, and well seasoned. Clouter—To put nail-shaped pieces of bacon, tongue, or truffle into meat. A coarse kind of larding. Cocotte (en)—Served in small earthenware dish. Compote—A stew of fruit, also of pigeons and other small birds. Concasser—To chop or pound roughly. Conftt—Preserved in sugar. Confiture—Jam and other fruit preserves. Contiser—To insert shoes of truffle or tongue by making incisions in flesh of poultry or fish. Coquilles—Shell, that which is served in a shell. Cordon bleu—A badge of distinction given to skil- ful cooks in France. Couronne (en)—Dished in the form of a crown. Court-bouillon—A fish stock for boding fish. Crecy (d la)—Applied to dishes in which carrots, or a puree of carrots, form a leading part. Crepes—Pancakes. Crepine—Card. Crepinettes—A kind of sausage. Cretes de coq—Cock’s combs. Croissants—Half-moon shaped pieces of bread or pastry. Croustade—A case of bread, rice, potato, &c., for holding a mince or ragout. Cro&tes—Shapes or blocks of fried bread used for dishing. CroiUon—Bread cut in dice or fancy shapes and fried ; used for garnishing or serving -with soup. Cru—Raw. Cuisse—Leg of a chicken. Cuissot—Haunch. Dariole—A small cup-shaped mould. The term is also applied to what is cooked in them. Darne—A thick slice of fish; the middle cut of a large fish. D’Artois—A sandwich of very light pastry with a savoury or sweet mixture inside. Daub—A kind of stew. Debrider—To remove trussing strings and skewers. Degraisser—To remove the fat from soup or sauce. Depecer—To cut in pieces. Desosser—To remove the bones. Dhall—A kind of pulse, like split peas or lentils. Diable (d la)—With a hot seasoning. Diner—Dinner. Dorer—To brown or to glaze over ; to make yellow with egg. D'Uxelles—A chopped mixture of parsley, mush- rooms, shallot, &c., used for flavouring or stuffing. Fbarber—To remove the beards from oysters. Fchaudtr—To scald, to heat in boiling water. Fclair—A light kind of pastry (choux pastry) filled with cream or custard. Fcossaise (d la)—In the Scotch manner. Ecumer—To remove the scum. Egoutter—To strain off the water. Emince—Minced. Emondtr—To remove the skins from almonds. Entrie—A dish served in the first part of a dinner ; generally a made dish with a sauce. Entremet—A dainty dish served in the second part of a dinner, such as a dressed vegetable, a hot or cold sweet, a savoury, &c. Epigrammes—Small fillets of game, poultry, or meat served as an entree. Escalopes—Small round pieces of veal cut very thin, egged and bread-crumbed, and fried; also round or oval pieces of lobster or fish. Escargot—Snail. Eluvee—To stew slowly, generally in the oven. Fagot—A bunch of herbs. Faire rtvenir—To fry partially, without cooking. Fanchonnettes—Small tartlets, generally coated with meringue or icing. Farce—Stuffing. Fecule—A very fine flour (rice or potato) used for thickening sauces and soups. Fermiere (a la)—Farmhouse style; generally very simple. Feuilletage—The lightest kind of puff pastry. Filet—Fillet. Fines-herbes—Parsley, chervil, chives, tarragon, thyme, &c., mixed. Flamber—To singe; to set a light to, as in rum omelet. Flan—An open case of pastry which can be filled with a sweet or savoury mixture. Fleurons—Small pieces of pastry used as a garnish. Foie gras—The fiver of a goose which has been specially fattened. Fondant—Soft and melting like fondant icing, fondant sweets. Fondue—A savoury made of melted cheese. Fouettee—Whipped. Crime foueitee—Whipped cream. Fourre—Coated with cream, sugar, &c. Frangipane—A confectioner’s custard, generally flavoured with almonds. Frapper—To ice, or to set on ice. Fricandeau—A large piece of veal larded and braised.