122 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD garnish with some nice fresh salad or a border of chopped aspic round, and decorate the top with any of the above ingredients arranged in a pretty design. either in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Time, 10 to 12 minutes to cook. Sufficient for 7 persons. 376. Fillets of Sole with Egg Plant (Filets de Sole aux Aubergines) 2 soles. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 egg plants. A little flour. Lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. To Prepare the Egg Plants.—Cut the egg plants in halves lengthwise, sprinkle the cut surface with salt, and if time permits allow them to stand half an hour to get rid of some of the water. Strain oS the water that has run from them and cut the aubergines in dice. Toss these in flour and fry them in butter until sufficiently cooked. To Prepare the Fish.—Take four fillets from each sole (see p. 78), trim and flatten them slightly with a knife. Season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, fold each fillet in two and coat them lightly with flour. Place the fillets thus prepared on a well-greased baking tin, cover with greased paper, and cook in a moderate oven from 10 to 12 minutes, or until the fish is sufficiently cooked. To Serve.—Arrange the fillets neatly on an oval dish, one leaning against the other, and put the egg plant round. Sprinkle the surface with chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. Add the remainder of the butter to the tin in which the fish was cooked, heat it over the fire until it turns brown, then strain it boiling hot over the fish. Decorate round the edge of the dish with thin slices of lemon. Note.—Fillets of plaice may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 377. Fillets of Sole ft la Florentine 2 soles. | pt. cooked spinach. | pt. fish stock. Lemon juice. 3 gills good white sauce. Fillet the soles and make stock of the trimmings. Trim the fillets neatly, season them with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and double them with the side which the skin came off inside. Lay them on a greased tin, and pour round them enough fish stock, or white wine and fish • stock to half cover them. Place a piece of greased paper on the top, and cook in a moderate oven until the fish is ready. Arrange a bed of well-cooked spinach on an entree dish, and dish the filleta neatly on the top ; they may either be placed in two rows, one overlapping the other, or in a circle. Have ready some good white sauce, made with fish stock (see p. 674), add to it 2 table- spoonfuls of cheese, and pour this over the fish, coating it well. Sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and brown the surface lightly, 6 table-sps. grated J/ar- mesan. Pepper and salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 378. Fillets of Sole a l’Orly (Filets de Sole k l’Orly) 1 medium sole. Frying batter. Tomato sauce. Marinade. 1 shallot. Juice of | lemon. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. First make the batter according to Recipe 1861, and let it stand while the fish is being prepared. Fillet the sole and cut each fillet into two or three pieces according to size. . Mix the ingredients for the marinade on a plate, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne. Lay the pieces of fish into this, and let them steep, or marinate, for half an hour at least. Turn them occasionally to ensure their being properly flavoured. Then have ready a pan of boiling fat, dip each piece of fish into the frying batter, and fry to a golden brown colour. Drain well and pile up lightly on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve tomato sauce separately. Note.—It is the marinade and tomato sauce which constitute the “ orly,” and this must always be adhered to, but the fish may be egged and bread-crumbed instead of being dipped in batter. Any small fillets or even flakes of cooked fish may be prepared in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 379. Fillets of Sole with Prawns (Filets de Solo aux Ecrivisses) 2 soles. Whiting farce, i Prawn butter. 8 prawns. | Sauce au vin blanc. Cook the prawns in a a little fish stock or court bouillon, and shell them carefully. Make the whiting farce according to Recipe 79, and fillet the soles. Spread the eight fillets on a board with the side which the skin came off uppermost, flatten them slightly to break the fibre, and trim them neatly. Cover each fillet with a layer of farce, and then double them lengthwise. Insert the narrow end of each fillet in the shell of a prawn, and fill up the hollow in the head with more farce. Then place the fillets in a greased saute pan or baking tin, pour round them enough white wine or liquid in which the prawns were cooked to nearly cover them, cover with greased paper or with the bones of the fish, and poach in the oven for 12 minutes. Poach also the tails of the prawns for the last few minutes to make them thoroughly hot. Prawn, Butter.—Take the trimmings of shells from the tails of the prawns, and pound them in a mortar, add an equal quantity of butter, pound again, and rub through a hair sieve. Season to taste and add a few drops of colouring if too pale in colour. To Serve.—Arrange the fillets of sole on a hot oval dish, with the heads of the prawns resting on the edge of the dish, coat the fish itself (not the red shells) with sauce au vin blanc (see p. 123), decorate with the tails of the prawns and then prawn butter put through a forcing bag or paper