627 PAPER-BAG COOKERY sides with a knife or pair of scissors, and draw the bag carefully away, leaving the food on the dish. Some Advantages of the System Cleanliness and freedom from smell are among the first. The food is placed in a perfectly clean bag, which cannot be said of all saucepans even under the most ideal conditions ; and the odour of cooking, so often objectionable in small houses or fiats, is done away with altogether. Various kinds of food can be cooked at the same time without any fear of the flavours mingling or of one contaminating another. There is economy, too, in this method of cooking; meat and fish lose little or nothing as far as weight is concerned, and their flavour and nutritive pro- perties are retained. It also means a saving of time and labour, as food requires little attention when cooked in this way, and there will be no saucepans to wash up, even the oven should be left perfectly clean, if the cooking has been properly done. As far as efficiency is concerned, this simple method of cooking leaves little to be desired in point of tenderness, nutritiveness, and natural flavour, and when properly carried out the results are most savoury and appetising. RECIPES 3030. Cod or Halibut Steaks Cut slices of fish about one inch in thickness, dip them in flour, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a well-greased bag. Squeeze over them a little lemon juice, lay on a few small pieces of butter, close up securely, and cook in a good oven about 15 minutes. One or two thinly-sliced tomatoes, a few chopped mushrooms, a little finely-chopped shallot and parsley, or 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of good fish sauce may be added as desired, and cooked along with the fish. 3031. Smoked Haddock Trim a smoked haddock weighing from 1£ to 2 lbs., and season it with pepper to taste. Place it in a well-greased paper bag, and add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Seal up and bake in a hot oven from 15 to 20 minutes. White sauce may be used instead of the milk and butter, and a few small tomatoes or a sprinkling of Parmesan cheese may be added. Or again, a short time before the fish is ready, a hole may be cut in the bag with a pair of scissors, and one or two fresh eggs dropped in, then returned to the oven until sufficiently cooked. 3032. Stuffed Haddock Prepare the fish as directed in Recipe 207, using butter rather than suet in the stuffing. After it is sewed up and trussed, brush it over with beaten egg, and sprinkle with browned bread-crumbs. Place in a well-greased bag, seal up, and bake in a good oven from 20 to 40 minutes according to size. Serve with anchovy or parsley sauce poured round. 3033. Mackerel Take two fresh mackerel, remove the head and fins, cut them open, and take out the backbone. Brush the fish over with melted butter, season them with pepper, salt, a little mixed herbs finely powdered, and J tea-spoonful chopped shallot. Place one fish on the top of the other, the open sides together, and slip them into a well-greased paper bag. Add 2 table-spoonfuls tomato sauce or tomato ketchup, seal up, and cook in a good oven from 20 to 30 minutes according to the size and thickness of the fish. Dish up carefully, pour- ing the sauce over. Herring may be prepared in the same way. 3034. Red Mullet Take two or three red mullet, prepare them care- fully, and wipe them dry. “ Oil or butter a paper bag, and place the fish inside, seasoning them with cayenne and a little salt. Add a small glass of white wine, a piece of butter the size of a walnut, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a tea-spoonful of chopped parsley. Seal up and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. A tomato and two or three mushrooms cut in pieces may be cooked along with the fish if wished. Grey mullet may be cooked in the same way. 3035. Whiting Have the fish cleaned and skinned, and fasten the tails in the mouths. Roll them in flour, dip them in milk, and then cover them with bread- crumbs, seasoning with white pepper and salt. Place the fish in a well-greased bag, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and seal up. Cook in a very hot oven from 15 to 20 minutes, according to the size of the fish. Other kinds of light white fish may be done in the same way, and it may be filleted if preferred. 3036. To Roast Meat Prepare the meat as for other roasting, stuffing it or not as desired. Select a good-sized bag, and either grease it with dripping or grease the joint itself, regulating the amount of dripping according to the fatness of the meat. Put the meat into the bag, seal it up, and place the bag on a grid in a well-heated oven. No basting is required, and the time allowed must be rather less than for ordinary roasting. Reduce the heat after the joint has been in the oven about 10 minutes. There will be very little gravy from meat cooked in this way, as the juice remains in the meat itself, but what there is in the bag should be poured into a basin, and have the grease removed from it. A little extra gravy or stock may then be added to it, and this poured round the meat. If a thick gravy is wanted, the joint of meat should be coated with flour before it is put into the bag, or a good gravy may be made separately. This is a particularly good method of cooking a small joint of meat, which is very liable to become dried up if roasted in the ordinary way. 3037. Roast Chicken Prepare and truss the chicken for roasting. Cover the breast well with good dripping or butter.