373 RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES 1603. Croustades ol Rice with Cheese 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. $ oz. butter. 2 tab'e-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. Rice croustades. Make 6 or 7 rice croustades as directed in Recipe 1601, and, when they are cooked and ready, prepare the egg mixture for filling them. Beat the eggs until light and frothy, adding to them the milk or cream. Melt the butter in a small saucepan or frying pan, pour in the eggs, and stir quickly until they are just beginning to thicken, then add the cheese and seasoning, and cook a minute longer, until of a thick creamy consistency. Fill the rice cases with this mixture, put on the covers, and servo very hot garnished with a little parsley. 1604. Rice Timbales \ lb. rice. I Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 pt. milk or broth. | 2 yolks of eggs. Wash the rice, put it into a double cooker with the milk or broth, the butter and seasoning. Cook until the rice is perfectly soft and all the liquid absorbed. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolks of eggs. Have ready some small greased timbale or dariole moulds, fill them with the rice mixture, place them in a tin with hot water to reach half-way up, and bake them in the oven about 12 minutes, or until firm to the touch. Then unmould and serve the timbales by them- selves, or as a garnish for meat dishes. Note.—The mixture may be made more savoury by adding to it a little curry powder, grated ham or tongue, or a little tomato sauce. Sufficient for 7 or 8 timbales. 1605. Puffed Rice This can be bought ready prepared in packets, and is very good served with soup instead of toast or croutons. It can also be eaten with jam or syrup and a little cream or milk. The required quantity of puffed rice should be put on a tin and made thoroughly crisp in the oven. It requires no further cooking. Serve it hot. PART II MACARONI DISHES MACARONI AND OTHER ITALIAN PASTES Macaroni and the other forms of Italian paste are all made from a special variety of wheat flour formed into a paste with boiling water and then worked up by machinery into various shapes and forms. Its origin is Italian, but it is now made in almost every country in Europe, although our supplies come chiefly from Italy and France, and the finest macaroni is still the Neapolitan. There are many different forms of macaroni, as for instance, the long straight pipes in various sizes, a small pipe sometimes twisted into little coils; a, still finer make known as spaghetti, which is very light and easily digested; and vermicelli, often looking like little twisted threads, Then there are also flat ribbons going under different names, and many small fancy varieties, such as stars, crosses. Macaroni (Fancy Shapes) discs, rings, letters, and other designs, the pates d’ltalie or pastincs so much used for garnishing soup. The mode of treatment is practically the same for all, some requiring longer to cook than others. Macaroni should only be cooked until tender, but not soft and pulpy. Care must be taken to choose macaroni of good quality, the inferior makes are not economical and not satisfactory. The best macaroni has a trans- lucent appearance and is of a light yellowish colour. It is rough and firm in texture, and swells to about double its original size when boiled. It will keep well when stored. The inferior makes are either of a dull greyish colour or they are coloured up with saffron to give them a yellow appearance. They do not swell much in boiling, and become mouldy if kept for any length of time. As a food macaroni is very valuable on account of its high nutritive value, wholesomeness, and cheap- ness, and it is to be regretted that it is not more used in this country than it is at present. Speaking about macaroni and rice. Sir Henry Thompson, in his book Food and Feeding, says : “ It is to be lamented that so little use is made in our country of the Italian pastes, especially of macaroni in all its forms, and that rice, largely used as it is, is not so well cooked, and therefore not so highly appreciated among the upper and middle classes as it deserves to be. The mention of maca- roni conveys to nineteen out of twenty Englishmen, as it does also to our cooks, the idea of an indiges- tible mess, containing much toasted cheese and butter, well peppered and over-baked, which, is sometimes served at the end of dinner as a savoury to complete the repast. In this form it ought rarely if ever to appear. Macaroni is, in fact, an aliment containing much nutritious matter, when made from selected growths of wheat contain- ing more gluten than the average grain used for bread. Most people, especially in summer, will find it a good substitute for the tough fibres of meat, particularly at lunch or midday meals, when their employments demand continuous atten- tion during the whole of a long afternoon. If properly cooked, it sustains the power without taxing too much the digestion, or rendering the individual heavy, sleepy, and incompetent after- wards.” Macaroni can be used for various purposes, i.e. as a garnish for soup, as an accompaniment to meat or fish, as a sweet pudding or savoury, and