HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES The term hors-d’oeuvre is applied to small appetising morsels served at the commencement of a luncheon or dinner, and intended to stimulate the appetite for what there is to follow. While they are a marked feature of the modern restaurant dinner, and of that of the French and Italian restaurants in particular, they are by no means a necessity at the ordinary English dinner, in fact, by many they are considered quite superfluous. Fashions change, however, and tastes vary, and a knowledge of what to serve as hors-d’oeuvre, and how to serve it, may prove useful to not a few. The savoury is of much greater importance than the hors-d’oeuvre, and is served after the sweets at the end of a dinner. It takes the place of the cheese course in the old-fashioned dinner, and grated cheese still enters largely into its composition. Those who do not care for sweet dishes generally look forward to the savoury, and without it no dinner of several courses is considered complete. The following pages show the kind of materials most suitable to use for hors-d’oeuvre, and give direc- tions for making many little savoury dishes; while an ingenious person with a little practice will not find it difficult to devise others. The chief point to remember is that smallness and neatness combined with piquancy of flavour must always distinguish them. Directions are also given for making some savoury dishes of a more substantial character, sui and suppers. GENERAL REMARKS ON HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES In this country hors-d’oeuvre are nearly always served cold. They must never be of a satisfying nature, but should consist rather of something tasty and very appetising. They may either be served in small individual dishes of china, silver, or glass, which are placed on the plate of each guest before the meal is commenced; or a choice of several different kinds is offered on a special hors-d’oeuvre dish. This latter method, the hors Special Hors-d’CEuvre Dish d'oeuvres varies, or miqnardises assortis, is very common at the restaurant dinner, and is also suitable for luncheons, but for a dinner the indi- vidual hors-d’oeuvre is more popular, as it save3 time by avoiding the extra serving. An hors-d’oeuvre should always be very simple in character, but choice of its kind. Its success will depend very much on the dishing up ; it must be daintily and tastily served, without the appear- ance of having been overmuch handled. Many hors-d’oeuvres are served plain, au natural, as it were; others are made up on little canapes or croutes of various kinds. They must always be used as cool and fresh as possible, chopped ice being used in hot weather. For decorating pur- poses, curly green parsley, tarragon and chervil, seasoned watercress, mustard and cress, thin slices of lemon, pieces of tomato and hard-boiled egg, nasturtium flowers, sliced cucumber, small green gherkins, capers, chopped aspic or savoury jelly, &c., may all be used. serving at more homely dinners, high teas. Small pieces of dry toast, thin brown bread and butter or crisp biscuits may be served separately. What can be used as Hors-d’CEuvre The following are some of the most popular articles used as hors-d’oeuvres : Oysters.—Beyond doubt this is the favourite hors-d’oeuvre in this country. They are served au naturd (Recipe 315), from four to six being allowed for each person. Caviare, which is the roe of the sturgeon and other fish of the same family, is another favourite hors- d’oeuvre, and is considered a great delicacy by those who like it. It is rather an acquired taste, how- ever, and one which is not appreciated by everyone. There are different kinds of caviare, but the Russian is generally considered the best. Large quantities from Germany and America are also imported into this country, and they are more moderate in price than the Russian. It is green when fresh, but turns almost black when it is preserved. Caviare must be kept very cold or on ice until it is wanted. It may either be handed round in its jar or little barrel placed on a folded serviette, or made up into little canapes. Cut lemon and brown bread and butter should be served along with it. Olives.—These are also very appetising, and are considered very wholesome. They should be steeped for a short time as they are generally too salt, and then served in small dishes with a little cold water. They are often stoned and stuffed in various ways, in fact they can be bought ready prepared in this form. Olives, like salted almonds, are often allowed to remain on the table until dessert is served. If any are left over they should be re-bottled in salted water. Anchovies and Sardines.—These can either be served plain, carefully filleted, seasoned to taste, and garnished, or made up in various ways. Unless they have been very specially prepared it is better