SWEET MAKING 603 chocolate that is left may be used over again, or more may he added to it. If it has to be kept for some time, cover it over or scrape it out of the sauce- pan, and put it into an air-tight tin box. 2887. Vanilla Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, flavouring the fondant with essence of vanilla and leaving it white. 2883. Strawberry or Raspberry Chocolate Creams 1 lb. fondant. Strawberry or rasp- berry flavouring. A few drops of car- mine. Covering chocolate. This is an example of chocolates made with a fondant or creamy centre. The fondant used may be cooked or uncooked (see Recipes 2858 or 2863); if the former, it should only be boiled to 240°, as the centres must not be too nard. Put the fondant on to a marble slab, work it out a little with the hand, add either raspberry or strawberry essence to flavour, and enough carmine to make it a pale pink colour. Work well, flattening out the fondant with the palm of the hand until all is well blended. Then roll out in a long roll, cut across in. small pieces, and roll again into balls. Use a little icing sugar to prevent the fondant from sticking to the hands. Lay the little balls of fondant, as they are shaped, on a marble slab or on a tin lined with grease-proof paper, and, when all are ready, set them aside in a cool place overnight, or for several hours at least. Then coat them with covering chocolate as directed above. They may either be left plain, or decorated with little gold or silver balls. Note.—Many other chocolate creams may be made in the same way as above, the shape, flavour, and colour being altered to fancy. The following are a few further examples : 2884. Coffee Chocolate Creams 1 lb. fondant. I Covering chocolate. Coffee essence. . ] Put the fondant on to a marble slab, and work into it by degrees some strong coffee essence until it is well flavoured, and of a good brown colour. When thoroughly blended, spread out the fondant, and leave it for a little while to harden, as the coffee essence will moisten it considerably. Then form into a long roll, cut in small pieces, and pro- ceed as directed above. After coating, the creams may be left plain or decorated with a little chopped pistachio nuts. 2885. Rose Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, flavouring the fondant with essence of rose and colouring it a very pale pink. Decorate when finished with a small piece of crystallised rose-leaf on each. 2886. Tangerine Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, flavouring the fondant with essence of tangerine, and colouring it a pale orange with orange colouring, or with a little yellow and carmine mixed. De- corate the top of the chocolates with a small thin slice of candied orange peel, or with a little crystal- lised orange flower. 2888. Violet Chocolate Creams Make in the same way as directed in Recipe 2883, but flavour the fondant with essence of violet, and colour it with violet colouring. When the choco- lates are finished, decorate them with a small piece of crystallised violet on each. 2889. Almond Chocolate Creams 1 lb fondant. Almond essence. \ lb. ground almonds. Covering chocolate. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Put the fondant on to a marble slab, and work into it the other ingredients. Be careful to keep it a very pale pink colour, or the colour may be left out if preferred. Form into almond-shaped centres, and, when set, cover with chocolate. Decorate with a small split almond on the top of each. 2890. Barcelona Chocolates 2 oz. shelled Barcelona nuts. 2 oz. unsweetened choco- late. \ lb. fondant. 1 oz. butter. Vanilla essence. Water or sugar syrup. Covering chocolate. Brown the nuts in a moderate oven, and chop them roughly. Grate or shred the chocolate finely, and put it into a saucepan with the fondant and a little sugar syrup or water. Melt these carefully over the fire without making them too warm, using just enough liquid to keep them from burning. When well blended, add the butter and nuts, and flavour with vanilla. Mix again and then spread the mixture on a marble slab to cool. Form into small balls or any other shape preferred, and leave them several hours or until next day before cover- ing. Coat with chocolate in the usual way. 2891. Chocolate Almonds and Raisins, 1 Jordan almonds. I Covering chocolate. Muscatel raisins. j Blanch some fine large Jordan almonds, and toast them in the oven to a nice brown colour. Remove the seeds from about the same number of muscatel raisins, and wipe them well in a clean towel. Choose raisins with as thin skins as possible. Then coat these, one at a time, with rather thick covering chocolate, and decorate them with a neatly-cut half almond on the top of the chocolate raisins, and a small seeded raisin on the top of the almonds. Notes.—A more elaborate sweet may be made bv surrounding the almond with a thin coating of almond paste, and putting a small ball of almond paste inside the raisins before coating them with chocolate. Or, another way is to coat the almonds and raisins with fondant covering before coating them with chocolate. Or yet another method is to toast and chop the almonds, seed and chop the raisins, and mix them with double their weight of fondant, flavour with vanilla, form into centres and cover with chocolate.