291 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME To Clean a Rabbit After the rabbit is paunched and skinned, it must be well washed and cleaned before it is ready for cooking. First remove the kidneys and draw away all the fat that surrounds them. Then break the thin skin (diaphragm) which separates the chest from the lower part of the body and draw out the heart and lungs from the inside. The liver, heart, and kidneys are the only inside parts that should be kept. The gall must always be carefully removed from the liver. Wash the rabbit well in salt and water, and if possible let it soak at least hour in tepid water with a little salt in it. Then lift out, dry and use as directed. Note.—If the strong flavour of the rabbit is ob- jected to, it should be blanched before cooking. To Skin and Paunch a Hare A hare should not be paunched until it is about to be used. Skin the hare first, in the same way as directed for skinning a rabbit, only in this case the tail and ears should be left on. The ears are the most difficult parts to skin, and a little care is required not to tear nor injure them in any way. Sometimes a slit is made in one of the hind-legs just above the foot, and the hare is hung on to a hook while the skinning is being done. Paunch in the same way as a rabbit, only be careful to save the blood, as this is required for some dishes, such as jugged hare and hare soup. Save also the liver, heart, and kidneys, and remove the gall from the liver. Wash the hare quickly in tepid water, dry in a cloth, and it is then ready for cooking. Many authorities object to this washing of the hare and direct that it should be wiped only with a cloth, in order not to lose any of the flavour, but a quick washing without soaking seems a more wholesome method. To Cut a Rabbit in Joints First cut off the four legs by the joints. Leave the fore-legs whole, but cut the hind-legs in two or three pieces, chopping through the bone with a chopping knife. Then cut the body across in five or six pieces, chopping the breast piece in two in order to make it flatter. Trim the pieces neatly, re- moving from them all the flap or loose skin, which along with the neck may be put into the stock pot, or used in the making of any gravy. Split the head in two, and this may be served with the rabbit, if liked ; it is considered a delicacy by some people. The liver, heart, and kidneys may also be served. To Bone a Rabbit It is not often that a rabbit has to be boned, but when a galantine has to be made it is necessary to do so. Clean and prepare the rabbit as directed above, then cut off the head and the two fore-legs and lay the rabbit on a board with the open side upper- most. Commence the boning at the neck end by cutting through the thin layer of flesh which covers the breast bone. Press the knife close to the bone and raise the flesh from it on both sides. Then cut away the flesh from the long back-bone, being careful not to cut through the flesh on the back of the rabbit if possible Disjoint the hind-legs from the body and draw the back bone out. Now cut through the flesh of the legs and remove the bones as cleanly as possible. Remove also all the flesh from the fore-legs which were cut off. When every piece of bone has been removed, spread the rabbit on the board and cut away all sinews and any other parts that are uneatable. It will have rather a ragged appearance, but so long as there is a good straight piece of flesh from the back it is all that is required. Lay the fleshy part from the legs on the back of the rabbit, and make all as oblong in shape as possible. Season with pepper and salt, then stuff and roll up as directed in Recipe 1202. 1189. Boiled Rabbit with Onion Sauce 1 rabbit. Hot water. 4 or 5 onions. Salt. Pepper. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1£ oz. flour. 1 cupful milk. Rolls of bacon. Clean the rabbit as directed above and then truss it for boiling. To do this, make a slit in the hind- legs at the thigh joint and draw them forward. Then turn the fore-legs back to meet them, keeping Babbit Trussed for Boiling the point off the hind-legs to the outside. Now turn the head round to one side and to the point where the two legs join. Take a trussing needle and string, pass the needle through the head, through the points of the two legs, the body and