FISH 79 All fish, with the exception of salt fish, should be ut into water that is very hot, but not bubbling ard, and salted in the proportion of 1 oz. salt to 1 gallon of water, and 2 table-sps. vinegar or lemon juice to the same quantity. The acid is added to make the flesh of the fish white and firm. If the fish about to be cooked is dry and tasteless, fish stock or court bouillon should be used instead of water, in fact it is always preferable to use one of these if they can be obtained. A simple court bouillon (quickly made stock) can be made by adding a bunch of herbs, a little cut-up carrot, onion and celery, and a few flavouring spices tied in muslin, to the water in which the fish is to be cooked. White wine is sometimes added instead of vinegar, od half white wine and half French vinegar may be used. What is known as court bouillon au bleu is made by substituting claret for the white wine. This is supposed to give the fish a bluish tinge. Again, there is the court bouillon a la Nantai.se, which is composed of equal quantities of milk and water. This gives fish a very soft and mellow flavour and is especially suited to fish that is being cooked for an invalid. A fish kettle is the best utensil to use for boiling fish, where there is a drainer, which enables the fish to be lifted out easily without being broken. It should be just large enough to hold the fish com- fortably. If a kettle too large for the fish has unavoidably to be used, the fish should be strapped on to the strainer with a piece of tape to prevent its being knocked about in the water. If no fish kettle is available a stewpan may be used. An old plate should be placed inside and the fish tied in a piece of butter muslin or cheese cloth. If the ends of the muslin are allowed to hang over the sides of the stewpan the fish can be easily raised out of the water without danger of breaking it. Always weigh the fish before boiling, so as to judge the time it will require to cook. From 8 to 10 minutes to the lb. and 8 to 10 minutes over is an average allowance, but this must be modified according to the shape and thickness of the fish. No hard and fast rule can be laid down; a thick cut of fish will take longer to cook than a thin flat piece of equal weight. Have sufficient water or court bouillon in the fish kettle to cover the fish by 2 inches and no more. If too much liquid is used the skin of the fish will in all probability be broken. Allow the liquid to boil up again after the .fish is put in and then draw the kettle to the side of the fire and allow the contents to simmer only, for the required time. If cooked too quickly, the outside will become cracked and broken before the inside is ready. All scum that rises must be carefully removed, if allowed to remain it would spoil the appearance of the fish entirely. The readiness of the fish must be tested before it is lifted from the water. The flesh ought to have lost its clear appearance and to have become white and opaque. The flesh should also come away from the bone easily, and a wooden skewer may be gently pushed in to try this. Fish should always be sufficiently cooked or it will be unwholesome, and at the same time not overcooked or it will be flavourless. As soon as the fish is ready, lift it out of the liquid in whioh it has been cooking and drain it well. If it cannot be served at once, keep it warm on the drainer placed across the fish kettle and covered over with a hot, clean cloth. Serve the fish on a dish with a drainer, and if liked a folded fish napkin or paper doyley under it. The custom of using a fish napkin is not altogether a desirable one unless the fish is very well drained previously, as it absorbs the moisture and is inclined to make the fish sodden. Garnish the fish with fresh parsley and cut lemon or any other suitable decoration and serve sauce separately. Boiled or steamed potatoes are usually served with boiled fish. Note.—For exceptions to the above rules see the various recipes for boiling special kinds of fish. Broiling or Grilling This is cooking fish on a grill, either in front of or over a nice clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. It is one of the best methods of cooking small fish, as the flavour is retained better than by any other way. Herring, mackerel, trout, had- dock, red mullet, &c., may all be cooked in this manner, also slices or steaks of the larger kinds of fish. They may be prepared in one of the following ways : 1. Wash and clean the fish, cutting off the heads and fins, and dry them lightly in a cloth. Then score the skin across diagonally on both sides to prevent it cracking during the process of cooking. Season the fish with pepper and salt, and brush it over with oil or melted butter, or allow it to soak for an hour in a mixture of oil and vinegar with a little chopped parsley and shallot : or 2. The fish may be split open, the bone removed and then lightly coated with flour or fine oatmeal. The latter is most suitable for herring, mackerel, or trout. A coating of egg and bread-crumbs may also be used if liked. Thoroughly heat the gridiron, grease it well, and lay the fish on it. Keep the fish rather near the fire while cooking or it will become flabby. Cook it from seven to ten minutes according to the thickness of the fish, and turn it once at least during the process. If a gas stove is used, place the fish on the grid tin and make the grill red hot before placing the fish under it. See also Grilling of Meat, p. 208. When finished it should be nicely browned on both sides and show the marks of the grill. Serve grilled fish at once with cut lemon and small pats of maitre d’hotel or any other savoury butter. If there are any roes belonging to the fish,- these may be cooked on a tin in the oven and used as a garnish. Some sharp sauce, such as tartare, cucumber, or tomato, may be served separately, and parsley or watercress used as a garnish. Grilling in Paper.—Fillets of fish, such as salmon, turbot, or sole, are sometimes wrapped in a heart- shaped piece of greased paper with a spoonful of any good sauce and grilled thus. They may also be soaked or marinaded in a mixture of oil, &c., as above, previous to being wrapped up. They should be served in the paper (en papillottes). See Recipe 290. Baking The simplest method of baking fish is to place it on a well-greased baking tin or fireproof dish