432 COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS Under this heading will be found directions for making various cold puddings and sweets, some of them simplo and inexpensive, suitable for everyday use, and others more elaborate and decorative for littlo supper or dinner parties. Cold desserts are particularly useful as they can be made some hours, or even a day, before they are wanted, and give no trouble at the time of serving dinner. In hot weather too, or at the end of a substantial repast, they are generally more acceptable than the hot pudding. It has become the custom with many housewives to draw on the supplies of the caterer for the cold sweets and jellies required for even the homeliest of parties. This seems a pity in view of the fact that they can be so easily prepared at home, and that home-made dishes taste better, and can be made to look as dainty as, if not daintier than those which are bought ready for the table. It is to be hoped that the following collection of recipes will tempt readers to rely a little more upon their own initiative in this respect. GENERAL REMARKS When making a jelly, cream, or any other cold mixture that has to be turned out of a mould, try to get it of a consistency that will just stand and no more. A stiS mixture, although more easily unmoulded, is never pleasant to eat. When gelatine is used for stiffening purposes, it ought to be of the best quality and have no un- pleasant taste of glue. French sheet gelatine is perhaps the easiest kind to use, as it requires no previous soaking. It should be very transparent and break easily like a piece of thin glass. Gelatine is most easily dissolved in water or other clear liquid, if milk is used it must not be allowed to boil, or it will curdle. The usual proportion to allow is -J to 1 oz. gelatine to 1 pint of liquid, but the quantity will vary somewhat according to the kind of gelatine used and certain other considerations. In warm weather, for instance, rather more gela- tine should be used than in cold. The jelly for a large mould should always be made stiffer than for a small one, and especially if it is to be set with fruit. A cream or custard mixture requires a smaller proportion than a jelly, as it is already slightly stiff. A little experience and one or two trials of the gelatine will very soon teach the proper quantity to use. The great secret in making jelly that looks bright is to take pains with the clearing of it. The sauce- pan used ought to have a clear or enamelled lining, and all utensils used must be perfectly free from grease. A cloth is generally sufficient for clearing purposes, and is to be preferred to the old-fashioned flannel bag. The temperature at which jelly is moulded ought to be such that while still perfectly liquid it is not sensibly warm. If poured into the mould hot, it is apt to become cloudy, and there is likely to be difficulty in turning it out. A cream or custard mixture should be stirred occasionally until it is beginning to set, and then moulded. If poured into the mould too liquid, the gelatine will be inclined to fall to the bottom, and form a clear top on the mould. When putting a jelly or cream aside to cool, see that the mould stands perfectly even, in order that the jelly may stand straight and firm when unmoulded. As a rule, a jelly is ornamental in itself, provided it is bright and is served in an equally bright crystal or silver dish ; but 'with different flavours, colours, and combinations, a great variety of more fanciful-looking sweets may be obtained. Orna- mentation, however, requires care and taste ; un- less the decoration is nicely done, the dish will have a slovenly appearance, corresponding very much to tawdry finery in dress. Jellies are improved by having custard, cream, or a puree of fruit served •with them. This should be served separately. To Prepare the Moulds The best moulds for jellies are those which are made of copper and tinned inside. It will be better if they can be kept for jellies only and not used for greasy puddings. Earthenware moulds are also good and are easily kept in order, but they are not so easy to turn out and the shapes are not so pretty. The moulds should have been well washed with very hot water to make them perfectly free from grease and then rinsed in cold water, or left filled with cold water up to the time of using. For most jellies and cold puddings the moulds are left wet. Some cooks oil the mould before putting in a cream or blanc-mange—this gives it a more glossy appearance. Almond oil or very pure salad oil is the best to use; it must be perfectly free from taste. Paint it on the mould with a brush, then turn the mould upside down, and allow any super- fluous oil to drain out before using. To Decorate a Mould with Jelly This is often done before pouring in a creamy or non-transparent mixture—it makes a pretty finish, and the mould will turn out more easily than if it had a creamy top. Prepare the mould and pour into it a little clear liquid jelly. Allow this to set and then place on the top any suitable deco-