186 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 688. Fennel Sauce (Sauce Fenouil) Make in the same way as Parsley Sauce (see Recipe 700), adding 1 table-spoonful chopped fennel instead of the parsley. Wash the fennel, pick it from the stalks, and cook it in boiling water until tender. Then drain it well and chop finely. 689. Horse-Radish Sauce, Hot (Sauce au Raifort) 1 stick horse-radish. 1| gills good white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. vinegar or lemon juice. Seasoning. Heat the white sauce in a small saucepan. Prepare the horse-radish as in Recipe 752, add it to the sauce, simmer at least 20 minutes, then sieve and reheat. Beat up the yolk of egg with the cream (sour cream can be used), add them to the sauce, and stir over the fire without boiling. Season to taste and add the lemon juice or vinegar when the sauce is removed from the fire. Note.—The yolk may be omitted if considered too rich. 693. Mushroom Sauce, Brown (Sauce aux Champignons) 6 oz. fresh button j 1 oz. butter, mushrooms. ! J pt. brown sauce. Peel and stalk the mushrooms and cut them in quarters. Put them into a small saucepan with the butter and lemon juice, and cook slowly for 10 minutes. Then pour off any butter that has not been absorbed, and add the brown sauce. Simmer about 15 minutes longer and serve with any brown meat dish. 694. Another Way Prepare and cook the mushrooms in butter as above, pour on J pint of brown stock, and simmer slowly for half an hour. Then mix 1 dessert- spoonful cornflour with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, add this thickening to the mushrooms, &c., and stir it well in. Cook a few minutes longer and serve. Note.—Brown mushroom sauce can also be made from tinned mushrooms. Follow the direc- tions given below, using brown sauce instead of white. 690. Liver Sauce \ pt. white sauce. Chicken or turkey liver. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley, Salt, pepper. Make the sauce with white stock or boilings from the fowl or turkey. Cook the liver and then chop it or rub it through a sieve. Add the liver to the sauce with the parsley, season rather highly, and cook a few minutes. Add the lemon juice just before serving. 691. Melted Butter (Beurre Fondu) 2 oz. fresh butter. White pepper and salt. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Put the butter into a very clean saucepan and stir it over a slow fire until melted. It should not lose its creamy appearance. Add the lemon juice and seasoning, and pour into a hot sauce-boat. More or less lemon juice may be used according to individual taste. Serve with some vegetables such as asparagus, globe artichokes, &c., also with boiled fish. 692. English Melted Butter Sauce (Sauce au Beurre) 2 oz. butter. [ £ oz. flour. | pt. water. j White pepper and salt. Dissolve 1 oz. butter in a small saucepan, and work the flour into it, cooking them together for a minute or two. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and pour in the water. Return to the fire and stir constantly until boiling. Boil all together for 10 or 12 minutes, season to taste, add a squeeze of lemon juice if liked, and, just before serving, add the remainder of the butter broken in small pieces. Strain before using. Note.—If this sauce is to be served with fish, the water in which the fish has been cooked should be used instead of plain water. If a plainer sauce is wished, omit the second piece of butter, using just 1 oz. 695. Mushroom Sauce, White J pt. good white sauce. | 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 gill tinned mushrooms. | 1 table-sp. cream. Take J pint thick white sauce. Bechamel or Veloute Sauce (Recipe 672 or 673) is best, and make it very hot. Add the mushrooms, cut in halves or quarters, a little of the mushroom liquor, cream and lemon juice. Make all very hot, but do not cook long or the mushrooms will harden. Some- times a little white wine is added. Serve with white meat or fish entrees; if with the latter, the white sauce should be made with fish stock. 696. Mussel Sauce 2 doz. mussels. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. About }■ pt. fish stock or milk. 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Prepare and cook the mussels as directed on p. 109, and carefully preserve the liquor. Make up this liquor to \ pint with fish stock or water. Then make a sauce in the ordinary way (see White Sauce, Recipe 671), using the butter, flour, and J pint of liquid, and cook it thoroughly. Add the mussels, cream, and seasoning, make all very hot over the fire, but do not boil again. When mush- rooms can be procured fresh and good they make an excellent sauce, and a cheap substitute for oyster sauce for serving with boiled fish. The cream may be omitted. 697. Mustard Sauce (Sauce Moutarde) 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. dry mustard. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. chilli or 2 tea- sps. white vinegar. 1 gill water or fish stock. Melt the butter in a small saucepan without dis- colouring it, add the flour and mustard, and mix until smooth with a wooden spoon. Pour in the water or fish stock, stir until boiling, and cook