COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 280 begins to cook, return the pieces of chicken, cover the saucepan, and cook in the oven or by the side of the fire until the flesh of the chicken is quite tender. A little stock should be added from time to time if necessary, to prevent the rice adhering to the saucepan. When ready, the stock should be entirely absorbed. Serve neatly in a deep dish and very hot. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. braise gently until tender, basting occasionally with the stock (see Braising, p. 210). When ready, remove the rolls of chicken and cut them in slices about f inch thick (use a very sharp knife for this), and brush them over with a little liquid glaze. Dish them in the form of a crown on a puree of spinach, and pour tomato or Italian sauce round. Time to braise, 1£ hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 1139. Chicken a la Marengo (Poulet a la Marengo) 1 tender fowl. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Stock. 10 or 12 button mush- rooms. 1 glass sherryor Marsala. Salt. Pepper. 2 shallots. 3 table-sps. puree of tomatoes. A bouquet garni. A pinch of cayenne. A squeeze of lemon juice 2 hard-boiled eggs. Croutons of fried bread or fleurons of pastry. Cut the fowl into neat joints, removing as mugh of the skin as possible. Warm the butter and oil in a stewpan, place in the pieces of fowl, and season with pepper and salt. Colour the pieces slightly, sprinkling them with the flour and shallots finely chopped. Then add the wine, puree of tomatoes, bouquet garni, mushrooms cut in small pieces, and sufficient light stock or water to cover. Cover the saucepan and stew gently in the oven, or at the side of the stove, until the fowl is tender. When ready, arrange the joints neatly on a hot dish, remove all grease from the sauce, add to it a squeeze of lemon juice, a pinch of cayenne, and more seasoning if necessary, and strain it over. Garnish with the mushrooms in the centre of the dish, and sections of hard-boiled egg and croutons or fleurons round the sides. Poached eggs may be used as a garnish if preferred. Note.—Veal or rabbit may be prepared in the same way. Time to stew, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1140. Chicken Legs with Spinach (Cuisses de Volaille aux Epinards) Salt. Pepper. Cayenne and nutmeg. 4 chicken legs, f lb. fillet of veal. 3 oz. fat bacon. 2 table-sps. chopped tongue. 6 or 8 button mush- rooms. 2 or 3 truffles. 2 yolks of eggs. Vegetables and stock for braising. A little glaze. A puree of spinach. Tomato or Italian sauce. Slit the legs of the chicken down one side and carefully remove the bones. Then prepare the farce. Pass the veal and bacon twice through a mincing machine, pound them in a mortar, and rub them through a sieve. Add to this sieved meat the chopped tongue, the mushrooms and truffles slightly chopped, and yolks of eggs. Mix all to- gether, and season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of cayenne, and a pinch of nutmeg. Stuff the chicken legs with this, sew them up neatly, and wrap them in buttered paper. Prepare a bed of vegetables in a stewpan, cover with stock, and heat over the fire. Place the chicken legs on the top of this, put the stewpan in the oven, and 1141. Galantine of Fowl (Galantine de Volaille) 1 fowl (untrussed). 1 lb. sausage meat. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 3 oz. ham or tongue. A few pistachio nuts. 1 or 2 truffles. Rind of f lemon. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A piece of glaze. Aspic jelly or salad. A large and older bird may be used for making a galantine, as long slow cooking will make it tender. Choose it untrussed, and singe and pick it carefully. Then bone it as directed on p. 277. When the boning is finished, spread out the fowl on a board with the skin side downwards, and arrange the flesh so as to have it of an equal thickness all over, and as oblong in shape as possible. Sprinkle it with pepper, salt, and spread over half the sausage meat, which has been seasoned rather highly with pepper, salt, cayenne, a little nutmeg and grated lemon rind. Cut the hard-boiled eggs, bacon, and tongue into strips, and lay these across the fowl in White Galantine of Fowl alternate rows. A few pistachios and truffles may also be put in if wished, or a little chopped parsley may be sprinkled over. Cover with the remainder of the sausage meat and then roll up the fowl and sew the join neatly with a needle and strong thread, keeping it well in shape. Now wrap the galantine In a cloth, like a roly-poly pudding, being careful that the hems of the cloth do not come on the breast of the fowl, where they would make a mark. Tie it securely at both ends, and put a safety-pin or a stitch or two in the middle. Remove the inside from the carcase, and wash the bones and trimmings. Put these into a large saucepan, with enough stock or water to cover them, and some pieces of vegetable, unless the stock is already well flavoured. Let this boil up, skim and put in the fowl, and cook slowly from If to 2 or 3 hours, according to the age of the fowl. When done, lift it out, and if, owing to the shrinking of the meat, the cloth looks wrinkled, take it off and re-roll it, and put to press till cold between two dishes with a 3 or 4 lb. weight on the top. When cold, take the galantine out of the cloth and trim the ends. Brush over the surface with a little melted glaze, applying two coatings if necessary (see p. 210). Serve garnished with aspic jelly or some nice green salad.