309 FORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES Note.—This stuffing is used principally for roast goose, roast duck, and roast pork. If fresh sage is used, the leaves must be boiled a few minutes, then dried and chopped finely. 1279. Sausage Stuffing \ lb. sausage meat. | lb. stale bread. A little hot milk or water. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 egg- Soak the bread in the milk or water until soft, and then squeeze it as dry as possible. Melt the butter or dripping in a small saucepan, put in the chopped onion and cook it 5 or 10 minutes without browning. Then mix all the ingredients together, binding with the egg well beaten. The onion and butter may be omitted. 1280, 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. Tomato Stuffing 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 egg and 1 yolk. Salt. Pepper. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion and cook it a few minutes without browning. Remove the skins from the tomatoes and cut them in small pieces. Add them to the butter and onion in the saucepan, cook all together for 10 minutes, then allow the mixture to cool. Mix in the bread-crumbs with the whole egg and yolk beaten together. Season with pepper and salt and the stuffing is ready to use. 1281. Veal or Herb Forcemeat, 1 1 lb. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped suet. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Grated rind | lemon. 1 or 2 oz. chopped ham. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Egg or milk. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, add the suet very finely chopped, the chopped parsley and ham, grated lemon rind and herbs very finely powdered. Mix well together, season with pepper and salt, and bind with a little beaten egg or milk. The ham is sometimes omitted, and 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter may be used instead of the suet. 1282. Veal Forcemeat. 2 \ lb. lean veal. 2 oz. fat bacon. 2 oz. stale bread. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. £ tea-sp. powdered thyme. 1 tea-sp. chopped par- sley. Seasoning. 1 egg- Put the bread, which must be free from crust, into a basin, cover it with cold water and let it soak until soft. Then squeeze out all the water in a cloth. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the onion and cook it a few minutes without browning. Put in the soaked bread, and cook a few minutes longer until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. When ready, turn it into a basin to cool. Wipe and trim the veal, cut it in pieces and put it through a mincing machine along with the bacon. Add the chopped meat to the bread panada, season with pepper, salt, thyme, and parsley, and moisten with beaten egg. A little grated lemon rind may be added if wished. This forcemeat may be used for stuffing poultry and other birds, &c., also for making forcemeat balls. 1283. Walnut Stuffing Make in the same way as Potato Stuffing (Re- cipe 1277), omitting the onion and adding 4 to 6 oz. shelled walnuts finely chopped. This stuffing is very good in ducks and rabbits. 1284. Whiting Farce (Farce Mousseline) J lb. whiting. | Seasoning. | white of egg. | 2 tab.-sps. double cream This is a very fine and delicate farce, suitable for fish entries. Weigh the flesh of the whiting free from skin and bone. Put it into a mortar and pound it well with the white of egg and seasoning to taste of pepper, salt, and a pinch of spice. Then rub this through a fine sieve and put it into a small saucepan or basin. Stand the saucepan in a tin with a little broken ice round it and mix the puree well with a wooden spoon, adding the cream, slightly beaten, by degrees. Not more than a tea-spoonful of cream must be added at a time, and the mixture must be well beaten to make it light. Before using the farce it will be as well to test a small piece in boiling water or stock. If after 2 or 3 minutes’ cooking it is of a nice con- sistency, the farce may be used as it is, but if too hard, add more cream, or if too soft, a little more white of egg. PART II BALLS, DUMPLINGS, AND QUEN- ELLES FOR GARNISH 1285. Bread Dumplings 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of sugar. Pepper. Salt. Put the butter into a basin and beat it to a cream. Add the egg and seasoning and then the bread- crumbs by degrees. Stir well together and then set the mixture aside in a cool place for an hour at least. Form it into small balls the size of a marble and boil in soup for 10 minutes. 1286. Cheese Balls or Quenelles for Soup \ tea-cupful bread- | Salt. Pepper. crumbs. Beaten egg. 1 oz. grated cheese. I Use rather soft cheese for these. Mix it with the bread-crumbs, season with pepper and salt and bind all together with a little beaten egg. Then form into very small balls, using a little flour, dip them into beaten egg and drop into boiling stock or water. Cook about 3 minutes, lift them out with a draining spoon and they are ready for serving in soup. Note.—These may be made quenelle-shaped if preferred.