COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 204 small amount of bone in proportion to its size. When it is too large a joint for a small family, it is sometimes a good plan to have it cut in two pieces and to roast one piece and boil or stew the other. When a piece of the loin is cut along with the leg it is called the Haunch. The Loin.—This is generally divided into two parts, the best end and the chump end, or even subdivided into separate cutlets or chops. The loin makes one of the finest and most delicate roasts, but it is not economical owing to the large proportion of fat and bone. If ordering for a roast it must be well jointed by the butcher, or it will be found difficult to carve, or sometimes the chine bone, which runs down the centre of the back, is sawn nearly off and then removed altogether after cooking. The double loin from both sides of the animal is called the Saddle. It is con- sidered a very fine joint, but too large for the ordinary household. The Neck.—The best end of the neck is also used for cutlets. It is an excellent piece for broiling and braising, as it is tender and delicate in flavour. The scrag-end, which lies nearer the head, is a cheap piece of an awkward shape and contains a good deal of bone. It is only suitable for broth or plain stews, as it is impossible to cut it in neat pieces. The Shoulder.—This is another good joint for roasting, and some people prefer it to the leg. It is perhaps more delicate in flavour, but is inclined to be fat. It can also be braised or boiled. The Breast.—Is a cheap piece of mutton with much fat and skin. If boned, stuffed, and rolled it makes quite a nice little roast. It is also very suitable for Irish stew where the potatoes absorb some of the fat. The Head and Trotters are generally sold at a low price, but they make excellent broth. They can also be served as a dish by themselves with a good sauce, or made into a pie and served, cold. The Pluck.—This consists of the heart, liver, and lungs, which are often sold together. In Scotland they form the foundation of haggis. The lungs, or lights, are very inferior, and by themselves are seldom used, except perhaps as cats’ meat. The heart is sometimes sold by itself, and is very good stuffed and roasted. The liver can also be bought separately, and is generally fried or stewed along with a little bacon. Kidneys.—These are very dainty morsels, and are a favourite breakfast delicacy. They are generally broiled or stewed, and are also used along with beef in pies and stews. The loin roast often contains one of the kidneys. LAMB When lamb is large it is usually cut up and used in the same way as mutton, but when small it is cut in quarters. The fore-quarter consists of the neck, shoulder, and breast, and the hind-quarter of the leg and the loin. If the hind-quarter makes too large a joint the upper part may be cut into chops and served as one dish, while the lower portion will make a nice little roast, or may be steamed and served with a good sauce. Or, a larger-sized piece may be cut off the top and made into a stew or braised. The fore-quarter may be divided in the same way, the breast piece being stewed or braised and the shoulder roasted. The chops from the neck may also be cut off separately, and either broiled or fried, or used for hotch-potch. Lamb’s Head can be used in the same way as sheep’s head, and is more delicate in flavour. Lamb’s Fry, consisting of the liver, sweetbread, and heart, is generally cut in shoes and fried. The sweetbreads alone are considered a great delicacy and are much used for entries. PORK Diagram showing different cuts of Pork. 1. Spare Rib. | 4. Fore-loin. 2. Hand. J 5. Loin. 3. Spring or Belly. I 6. Leg. The usual joints of fresh pork are the following : The Loin is generally scored and roasted. Pork chops are also cut from this part. Leg.—Another piece for roasting. The skin should always be scored by the butcher, or it would be impossible to carve the joint. It is sometimes salted and then boiled. The Hand and Spring or Belly.—These parts are rather fat, and are usually salted. They are best boiled and served cold. Head.—Usually salted. Can be made into brawn, or boiled and served cold. Feet (Pettitoes) can be cooked in various ways. Usually boiled or stewed. The Tongue should be pickled and then served in the same way as sheep’s tongue. Harslet, Haslet, or Fry.—Consisting of the heart, lights, liver, sweetbread, &c., of the pig, are gener- ally cut in slices and fried. PRICE OF MEAT Note.—The following are average London Store prices for home-fed meat. Colonial or foreign meat is Id. to 2d. per lb. cheaper. Beef Aitch bone . Per lb. 7 d. to 7id. Sirloin . . . Per lb. Is. to Is. Id. Brisket . . 7id. to Sd. Steak . . . lid. to Is. 3d Fillet . . . 'is. 3d. Shin.... 7d. to 8d. Flank, thick . 9d. to lOd. Top side . . lOd to lUd. „ thin . Gravy beef . 6 Id. Ox heart . . 2s. 6d. each 8 d. ,, kidney Is. Ribs.... 10d. to Is. Id. ,, tail . . Is. 6d. tols9d. Rump . . . Is. each Silver-side lOd. Suet.... Sd.