COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 606 300° or until the toffee breaks crisply when tested in cold water. Have the nuts ready shelled, toasted and chopped roughly, add them to the to See, pour out on an oiled tin, and, when cold, break in pieces. 2908. Barley Sugar 2 lbs. white sugar. A few drops vanilla or 1 pti water. lemon essence. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Either granulated or loaf sugar may be used. Put it into a saucepan and boil as directed for Sugar Boiling (see p. 597) to 230° F. Then add the strained lemon juice and the flavouring essence. Continue the boiling until the “ large crack,” or 312° F., is reached. Pour out quickly on to a well- oiled slab, and let the sugar cool slightly. Then cut it in narrow strips with a knife, and twist these with the fingers into a spiral shape. When quite cold, keep in an air-tight tin box. Note.—Barley water is sometimes used instead of plain water, hence the name. 2909. Butter Scotch 1 lb. light brown sugar. 4 to 6 oz. butter. J lb. syrup. 1 table-sp. water. 1 tea-sp. glucose or a pinch cream of tartar. | tea-sp. vanilla. | tea-sp. lemon essence. First melt the butter in a saucepan, then put in the syrup, sugar, and water, and dissolve them slowly by the side of the fire. Bring to the boil, stirring all the time, add the cream of tartar or glucose, and boil to 300° or until the toffee breaks crisp when tested in cold water. Flavour to taste, and pour it on to an oiled or buttered tin. When set, mark in squares, and break in pieces when cold. If this has to be kept for any time, wrap it in wax paper, and store in a tin box. 2910. Candy Sticks 1 lb. granulated sugar. Flavouring and colour- 1 gill water. ing. £ lb. glucose. Melt the sugar in the water, then add the glucose, and stir until dissolved. Boil to 300° F., according to General Directions for Boiling Sugar on p. 597. Then pour the syrup on to a marble slab, and flavour and colour to taste. Fold over and over with a wooden spatula, and, when cool enough, pull out with the hands, double, and pull again, continuing this until the candy is too hard to work longer. The last pulling out should be made rather thin. Cut in sticks and keep in an air-tight tin or glass bottle. Quite a variety of candy sticks may be made by changing the colour and flavour, such as ginger or cinnamon essence flavouring and yellow colouring, strawberry or raspberry flavouring and pink colouring, peppermint flavouring and green colouring ; or, when one becomes expert at making the candy, two different colours may be pulled out together, and this gives a very pretty effect. Note.—If a large quantity of candy is made it should be pulled over a hook fixed to the wall. 2911. Chelsea Toffee 2 lbs. granulated sugar. £ lb. butter. 1 tea-cupful water. 1 tin Swiss milk. 2 tea-sps. vanilla essence 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the sugar and water, and bring to the boil. Boil a few minutes, and then add the Swiss milk. Now stir constantly and boil about £ hour longer, or until the toffee reaches 255° F. Remove from the fire, add the vanilla and carmine, and pour out on an oiled tin. When set, mark in squares, and cut in pieces when cold. Note.—A few chopped nuts may be added to the mixture if wished. 2912. Everton Toffee lib. coarse brown sugar. 3 oz. butter. 1£ gills water. Pinch of cream of tar- tar. Flavouring to taste. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and melt slowly over the fire. Add the cream of tartar, and boil to the hard ball, or about 260°. Then re- move the saucepan from the fire and add the butter, a small piece at a time, and a few drops of vanilla or other flavouring. Return to the fire and boil again until the mixture reaches 300°, or feels hard when tested in cold water. Pour out on a well-oiled tin, and when partly set, mark across in convenient* sized pieces. When quite cold, break up the toffee, and wrap it in wax paper, and, if it is to be kept for any length of time, wrap it in tinfoil paper as well. Probable cost, 7d. 2913. Fudge, 1 1 lb. granulated sugar. | pt. milk. 2 oz. unsweetened choco- late. 1 oz. butter. 1 cupful chopped nuts. Vanilla essence. Grate or shred the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan with the sugar, butter, and milk. Heat slowly over the fire, stirring all the time, until the ingredients are melted. Then simmer, stirring occasionally, until the mixture registers 240°, or, when tested in cold water, -will form a soft ball. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the nuts, and flavour with vanilla essence. Con- tinue the stirring until the mixture thickens, then pour it into an oiled tin or between oiled bars on a slab. Mark it in squares with the back of a knife, or with a caramel cutter, and cut in pieces when cold. Note.—The mixture may be made richer by using partly cream instead of milk. 2914. Fudge, 2 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill honey. 1 gill water. A pinch cream of tartar. 2 whites of egg. Flavouring. J lb. shelled walnuts. Put the honey, water, and sugar into a saucepan, and stir them carefully over the fire until dissolved. Then add the cream of tartar, and boil to 254° F. Beat the whites to a stiff froth in a basin, pour the hot mixture gradually on to them, and continue the beating until thick. Add the walnuts, chopped and toasted, flavour with orange-flower water or