618 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD rind very thinly off the lemons, taking off only the yellow and none of the white, and add it to the sugar and water. Then dissolve the citric acid in a saucepan with the remainder of the water, and pour it also into the crock. Peel the lemons, carefully removing all the white pith, which is not used; cut the lemons themselves into slices, re- move as many of the seeds as possible, and then add them to the rest. Cover the crock, and allow the lemon syrup to stand for a day or two, stirring occasionally. Strain through muslin or a fine cloth, and bottle and cork tightly. Two table-spoonfuls of this syrup is sufficient for a tumblerful of plain or soda water. 2982. Lemon Syrup, 2 Fresh lemons. Sugar. Brandy. Take about six lemons, wipe them, peel the rind ofi them as thinly as possible, and cut it in small pieces. Then press the juice out of the lemons, strain it, and measure it. To each pint of juice allow 1 lb. of sugar and £ gill good brandy. Put all together into a jug or basin, adding the prepared rinds, cover and let it stand for 24 hours. Then strain through muslin, and bottle for use. A little of this syrup mixed with iced water or aerated water will make a delicious summer drink. 2983. Milk Punch, 1 Put into a tumbler a small wine-glassful of brandy with a table-spoonful of castor sugar. Add a little crushed ice, and fill up with cold milk. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and serve with a straw. 2984. Milk Punch, 2 Put into a large tumbler 1 table-spoonful rasp- berry syrup, 1 table-spoonful cura£ao or noyeau, 1 table-spoonful rum or brandy, and a dessert- spoonful of fine sugar. Add a little crushed ice, fill up with milk and grate a little nutmeg over the top. 2985. Mulled Claret 1 pt. claret. \ pt. water. 3 to 4 oz. sugar. 2 cloves. Rind of J lemon. 1 inch cinnamon stick. A grate of nutmeg. Put the water and sugar into a delicately clean saucepan with the spices, and the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon. Br'ng slowly to the boil, add the claret, and boil up again. Pour into a jug and serve very hot. Thin biscuits or toasted rusks should be served along with it. Port may be used instead of claret. 2986. Orange Punch 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1 1 lemon. Apollinaris. 1 pt. water. 4 oranges. | Crushed ice. Put the sugar and water into a lined saucepan with the grated rind of two of the oranges. Stir over the fire until dissolved, then bring to the boil, and boil quickly for 5 minutes. Remove from the fire, allow the liquid to cool, and add the juice of the oranges and lemon. When wanted, strain into a jug or bowl, add a large bottle of Apolli- naris, and some crushed ice. 2987. Orange Soda Juice of 1 orange. I 1 table-sp. liqueur. 1 table-sp. brandy. | Ice. Soda water. Put some finely-broken ice into a soda-water glass, and strain in the juice of an orange. Add the brandy and a little Curasao or other liqueur. Fiil up with soda water and serve. 2988. Raspberry Drink Make some raspberry puree by rubbing fresh raspberries through a very clean hair sieve. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of this puree into a tumbler with 1 table-spoonful of brandy or liqueur, and sugar to taste. Add a little crushed ice, and fill up with aerated water. Serve with straws. 2989. Raspberry Lemonade 1 table-sp. raspberry syrup. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. A little shaved ice. Soda water. Put the raspberry syrup, lemon juice, and castor sugar into a large tumbler; add about 2 table- spoonfuls of shaved ice, and fill up with soda water. A thin slice of lemon may be floated on the top. Serve with a straw. Note.—Strawberry lemonade may be made in the same way. 2990. Raspberry Vinegar 3 lbs. raspberries. I Preserving sugar, lqrt. white wine vinegar. | Only 1 lb. of raspberries is used at a time, so it is better to have them fresh when required. Pick 1 lb. of fruit carefully, put it into a large jar, and pour the vinegar over it. (White wine vinegar is the best to use, as it is not so harsh as the ordi- nary white vinegar.) Cover the jar, and stand in a cool place for 3 or 4 days, stirring the contents gently each day. At the end of this time strain the liquid through a hair sieve or piece of muslin. Allow it to drip thoroughly, but do not use any pressure. Now pour the liquid over another pound of raspberries, and repeat as before until the 3 lbs. of fruit have been used. After the last draining, measure the liquid and put it into a lined saucepan with 1 lb. of cane sugar to each pint. Bring to the boil, and boil gently for 10 minutes, removing all scum as it rises. Allow the vinegar to cool, then bottle and cork securely. Store in a cool place. Note.—Another method is to put all the rasp- berries at once into a jar with the required quantity of vinegar and to let them stand for 10 days, stirring them gently each day. Then strain and boil with sugar as before. 2991. Red Currant Syrup Choose ripe and juicy red currants, pick them carefully, and put them into a large jar. Set this in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until the juice has run freely from the currants. Then strain through a jelly cloth or fine hair sieve. Measure the juice, and to each pint allow 1 lb. of sugar and \ gill French brandy. Put the sugar and juice into a saucepan, stir over the fire until