RICE, MACARONI, a saucepan, put in the prepared onion, and cook it a few minutes, but without allowing it to brown. Then add the rice, well washed and drained, and the curry powder, and stir these ingredients over the fire until the butter is absorbed. Add the stock, sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Now cook by the side of the fire until the rice is tender, stirring occasionally. Add the lemon juice at the last, and use as required. This makes a very good accom- paniment to various meat and vegetable dishes. Time to cook, \ to § hour. Probable cost, 8d. 1590. Devilled Rice J lb. rice. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. Salt. Black pepper. A pinch of cayenne. Boil the rice as for curry and drain it well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely minced, and cook it over the fire until a light brown colour. Then put in the rice, sprinkle it with the curry powder and other seasonings, and stir all together over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Serve very hot by itself, or as an accom- paniment to grilled meats of any kind. Probable cost, 4d. 6 oz. rice. 3 hard-boiled eggs. h pt. white sauce. 3 tab. -sps. chopped celery 1591. Rice and Egg Pie Seasoning. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Boil the rice dry as for curry and cut the hard- boiled eggs in slices. Chop a little crisp celery and prepare the white sauce (Recipe 671). Then take a greased pie dish, or fireproof dish, and put into it the different ingredients in layers, keeping the bread-crumbs for the top. Cover the pie with these, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly hot and nicely browned. Serve garnished with a few sprigs of parsley. Note.—If celery is not in season, some chopped nuts, chopped mushrooms, ham, or grated cheese may be used in its place. Probable cost, 9d. 1592. Neapolitan Rice (Riz a la Napolitaine) £ lb. Patna rice. I 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 tomatoes. I 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper Boil the rice as for curry and make it very dry. Slice the tomatoes and rub them through a sieve (tinned tomatoes may be used for this) and grate the cheese. Melt the butter in a saucepan and put in the rice, mix well, season with pepper and salt, and add sufficient tomato puree to moisten the rice without making it too liquid. Add the cheese, which should not be too strong in flavour, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 4d. 1593. Rice and Nuts | lb. rice. | lb. mixed nuts. 2 or 3 table-sps. tomato sauce. Salt. Pepper. A few bread-crumbs. A little butter. Cook the rice as for curry and drain it well. Chop the nuts, but not too finely. Then take a AND NUT DISHES 371 fireproof baking dish, grease it, and arrange in it the nuts and rice in alternate layers. Have ready some well-seasoned tomato sauce, and pour it over the top to entirely cover the rice, &c. Sprinkle some fine bread-crumbs over, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 1594. Rice Pilaff or Pilau 6 oz. rice. 1J oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 pt. light stock. A pinch of saffron. Seasoning. 2 doz. stoned raisins. 1 doz. shred almonds. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and cook it a minute or two. Add the rice well washed, but quite dry, and stir with a spoon until it is well coated with the butter, but not brown. Add the stock, saffron, almonds, raisins, and seasoning, cover the saucepan and cook in a moderate oven about £ an hour. When the rice is tender without being broken, add the re- mainder of the butter broken in small pieces, and mix all lightly with a fork. This may be served by itself or as an accompaniment to some meat dishes. Hard-boiled eggs or broiled mushrooms may be used as a garnish. Probable cost, 8d. £ lb. rice. 1 gill picked shrimps. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1595. Rice with Shrimps 1 tea-sp. chutney. Stock. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. grated cheese 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Wash the rice in several waters, and put it into a stewpan with the shrimps, curry powder, and chutney. Mix well and pour in enough stock to cover the ingredients. Season to taste and bring to the boil. Then cover and stew slowly until the rice is cooked and the stock all absorbed. Add the cheese (if liked), pile up on a hct dish, and sprinkle the parsley over. A few extra shrimps warmed in butter may be used as a garnish. Time to cook, f hour. Probable cost, 10d. 1596. Risotto 6 oz. rice. 1 onion. 2 oz. butter. A pinch of saffron. 1 pt. stock. 2 oz. grated cheese. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and fry it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Wash and dry the rice, add it to the onion and butter, and cook it a few minutes, being very careful it does not burn. Then stir in a very little powdered saffron and add the stock. Simmer all slowly until the rice is tender and the stock nearly absorbed. The mix- ture must be stirred occasionally to prevent its sticking. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and, a minute or two before serving, stir in the grated cheese and the remainder of the butter. Serve very hot. Note.—A few chopped mushrooms may be added to the rice if wished. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Probable cost, lOd.