557 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES to the size of the rolls. Just before removing the rolls from the oven, brush them over with milk, or egg and milk, to make them shiny. Notes.—Sometimes an egg is added to the above dough. The mixture may, if liked, be baked in 6mall greased tins. Probable cost, 5d. 2653. Fancy Bread 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk. 1 gill cream. 1 oz. German yeast. 1 table-sp. orange flower water. 1 or 2 oz. shredded almonds. Sieve the flour, sugar, ginger, and cinnamon into a warm basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast in a smaller basin with a little salt, make the milk and cream lukewarm, and add them to it along with the orange flower water. Strain this into the centre of the dry ingredients and make into a light dough. Sprinkle with flour, cover the basin and then stand in a warm place from 1J to 2 hours, until the dough is well risen and feels light and elastic to the touch. Turn out on a floured board and knead lightly. Make into small rolls, and place' them on a greased and floured tin. Brush over with slightly beaten white of egg, sprinkle with shredded almonds, which have been dried in the oven, and bake in a moderate oven until quite crisp and of a pretty brown colour. Note.—These may be cut in pieces and served with coffee, or sliced and buttered for afternoon tea. Time to bake, | to f hour, according to size. Probable cost, Is. 2654. Gluten Bread 1 oz. German yeast. 3 gills warm water. 4 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 lb. Callard’s gluten flour. A pinch of salt. Dissolve the yeast and salt in the warm water. Put the gluten flour into a basin, and strain the yeast into it. Add the eggs, and the butter melted, and knead until perfectly smooth. Cover the basin with a cloth, and set it to rise in a warm place for 1 hour. Then divide it, and bake it in tins. Note.—2 oz. almond flour added to this is an improvement. These specialities can be bought from Messrs. Callard & Co., 95 Regent Street, London, W. : Gluten flour, 2s. 6d. per lb. ; almond flour, 2s. This bread is specially recommended for diabetic patients. 2655. Bread Sticks | lb. light dough. 1 egg. Any bread dough may be used for these, but a light dough such as that used for Vienna bread is best. Work in the egg, and, if there is no butter in the dough, work in i oz. of this as well. Knead the dough, until it is elastic, and cut it into pieces about the size of an egg. Roll those pieces on the board into a long stick rather thicker than a pencil. Place them on a greased and floured tin, and set them in a warm place to rise for 10 minutes. Then bake in a moderate oven until crisp and very lightly browned. Serve these bread sticks with soup or with cafe au lait. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 2656. Salt Sticks Make in the same way as Bread Sticks, keeping the sticks much smaller and shorter. Brush them Salt Sticks over with milk and sprinkle with coarse salt and Nepaul or coralline pepper before baking. When ready, tie them in bundles with narrow ribbon. 2657. Breakfast Bannock 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. salt. 2 tea-sps. baking powder. 1 table-sp. sugar. \ pt. milk. 1 egg. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten, and then the milk gradually until all is bound together into a light dough. Form the dough quickly into a round or oval-shaped bannock, and put it on a greased and floured baking tin. Brush over with a little milk, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Qd. 2658. Breakfast Rolls 1 lb. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. \ oz. German yeast. £ pt. tepid water. 1 tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour into a basin, rub in the butter thoroughly, and make a well in the centre. Mix the yeast with the salt until smooth and creamy, then pour on to them the tepid water. Strain this into the centre of the flour, and mix up quickly into a dough. Turn out on a well-floured board, and knead until smooth. Then form it into a long roll, and cut across in pieces about 3 inches in length. Place these on a greased and floured tin and set them to rise in a warm place