53 STOCKS AND SOUP£ liminary preparation, but it will take a longer time to cook. The soup may be made richer by the addition of 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. It is not absolutely necessary to sieve this soup, but a much smoother preparation is obtained by doing so. Time to cook, 2| hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 56. Lentil Soup from Lentil Flour Make in the same way as pea soup from pea flour. See Recipe 64. 57. Lettuce Soup (Potage de Laitues) 2 lettuces. 3 or 4 spring onions. A handful of spinach. 2 oz. butter. 1 egg. 2 pts. light stock or meat boilings. 1 dessert-sp. crushed tapioca. Pepper and salt. First prepare the vegetables. Cut any hard stalk from the lettuce and remove any soft or discoloured leaves. Wash the leaves well and let them lie in cold water for half an hour. Wash and pick the spinach, removing the stalks. Cut the root and most of the green oS the onions and wash them in cold water. Then drain the vegetables and cut them all in thin slices or shreds. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the sliced vegetables and stew over a slow fire about 15 minutes, stirring frequently. Pour in the stock, bring to the boil and simmer slowly for 20 minutes. Sprinkle in the tapioca and cook until quite transparent, seasoning to taste. Beat up the egg, put it in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with fried crofttons of bread. Grated cheese may be handed separately. Note.—A cupful of hot milk and 1 or 2 yolks of eggs may be added instead of the whole egg. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 58. Neapolitan Soup (Potage Crdme Napolitaine) Make in the same way as Portuguese soup (Recipe 65), adding small pieces of cooked macaroni instead of the rice, and a little grated cheese. 59. Onion Soup (Brown), 1 (Soupe aux Oignons) 4 or 5 medium-sized onions. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 oz. rice flour. 1 qt. second brown stock. 1 oz. grated cheese. Pepper and salt. Skin the onions and cut them in thin slices so that they fall in rings. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan and let it just turn brown. Put in the sliced onion and brown that also, but be careful it does not blacken, or the flavour of the soup will be spoiled. Then add the rice flour and mix it well in. Pour on the stock, stir until boiling and skim well. Let the soup simmer for 11 hours, or until the onion is quite soft ; then rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan, return the soup to it and reheat over the fire. Serve with crofitons of fried bread. The grated cheese can either be put into the soup or banded separately. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. -» Quantity, 1J pints. 60. Onion Soup (Brown), 1 or 2 Spanish onions. 1 oz. butter. I slice toast, slightly buttered. 2 (Soupe aux Oignons) 1 qt. brown stock. Grated Parmesan. A pinch of cayenne. Prepare the onions as in last recipe, slicing them very thinly. Cook them a few minutes in the butter, allowing them to brown, but not to blacken. The stock used must be clear and good. Make it very hot and pour it into the saucepan beside the onions. Season to taste and add a pinch of cayenne. Butter a slice of toast and cut it in dice or small round pieces, toss these in grated Parmesan, brown in the oven a minute or two, and float these on the top of the soup. Time to cook, 15 minutes. Probable cost, lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 61. Onion Soup, White (Soupe aux Oignons) 4 or 5 medium-sized onions. 1 oz. butter. 2 pts. meat boilings or white stock. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks. 6 white peppercorns. A blade of mace. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. milk. Salt to taste. Skin the onions and scald them in boiling water a few minutes to remove some of the pungent flavour. Then slice them down as thinly as possible and so that they fall in rings. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put into it the sliced onion, bay-leaf, parsley stalks, peppercorns and blade of mace; put the lid on the pan and cook for 10 minutes over the fire without browning. Pour on the stock or meat boilings, simmer until quite soft and rub through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it. Break the flour gradually with the milk, add this to the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil 5 minutes at least, and season to taste. Serve with crofitons of fried bread and hand grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese separately. Note.—This soup may be made richer by thicken- ing it with 1 or 2 yolks of eggs and a little cream instead of the flour and milk. Time to cook, 1 \ hours. Probable cost, 10d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 62. Parsnip Soup (Potage de Panais) 1J lbs. parsnips. 1 or 2 onions. 1 stick celery. A small bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Pepper and salt. 2 pts. meat boilings. | pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Wash and scrape the parsnips until quite white, cut oil the tops and then weigh them. Cut them in thin slices, and throw them into cold water for a few minutes. Prepare the celery and onion and cut them in thin slices also. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, strain the parsnips, and add them to it with the onion, celery, and bunch of herbs. Stir these over the fire for a few minutes until they absorb the fat, add pepper and salt and pour on the meat boilings. Mix well, put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 1| to 2 hours, or until the parsnips are quite soft. Rub the soup through a sieve into a basin, then rinse out the saucepan