129 VEGETABLES AND SALADS and egg and bread-crumb them. Put them in a frying basket and fry in boiling fat until a golden brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper to ab- sorb all the grease and serve them piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley. Any suitable sauce may be served separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 398. Artichoke Chips Choose large artichokes for making chips, and wash and prepare them as directed in Recipe 396. Cut them in thin slices or shreds and let them lie for a short time in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice have been added. Then drain the chips and dry them thoroughly in the folds of a towel before cooking. When required, lace a few at a time in a frying basket and fry in oiling fat (see French Frying, p. 248) until brown and crisp. Drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle lightly with salt. 399. Jerusalem Artichokes, Saut6d (Topinambours Saut§s) 1 lb. artichokes. I Pepper, salt. 2 oz. butter. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare the artichokes as in Recipe 396, but do not cook them. Cut them in very thin slices, drain them and let them lie between the folds of a towel for a short time. Melt the butter in a saute or frying pan, put in the artichokes and keep tossing them over and over until they are nicely browned on both sides. Season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle the parsley over just before serving. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 400. Artichoke Cream (Creme d9 Topinambours) 1£ lb. Jerusalem arti- I 1 gill double cream. chokes. Seasoning. | 2 eggs. Tomato sauce. Prepare and cook the artichokes as in Recipe 396, drain them very dry and rub them through a hair sieve. Beat the eggs thoroughly, and whip the cream until thick, add them to the artichoke puree, mix very lightly and season to taste. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper and steam slowly until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with tomato sauce poured round. Notes.—If preferred the mixture may be steamed in several small moulds. This cream may also be served cold or iced and garnished with cucumber, or tomato and lettuce. Time to steam, J to § hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 401. Artichoke Souffl6 (Souffle de Topinambours) 1 gill artichoke puree. I Grated lemon rind. 1 gill milk. 2 eggs. | Pepper. Salt. Take some cooked and well-drained artichokes, rub them through a sieve and measure 1 gill of the puree. If the remains of artichokes mixed with sauce are used, the milk, or some of the milk, must be omitted. Beat up the yolks of the eggs with the milk and strain them into the artichoke puree. Season with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once, and in the same dish. This is very good and delicate in flavour. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be cooked in several small moulds. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 402. Japanese Artichokes or Crosnes, To Bake (Crones Japonaises au Four) 1 lb. crosnes. I 1 table-sp. cream. 1 oz. butter. I Seasoning. Trim the ends of the crosnes, and wash and brush them well in cold water. Warm the butter in an earthenware saucepan, put in the crosnes, cover with the lid, and cook them in a moderate oven until tender, shaking the saucepan from time to time. The crosnes must not be overcooked, or the flavour will be spoilt. Add the cream and seasoning a few minutes before serving. Note.—A gill of good white sauce may be added at the last, or the crosnes may be served in small scallop shells with the sauce over and a little grated Parmesan on the top, then browned under the grill, or in the oven before serving. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 403. Japanese Crosnes, To Steam (Crones Japonaises au Beurre) 1 lb. crosnes. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 to 2 oz. butter. I 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Wash and prepare the crosnes as in the last recipe. Put them in a double cooker or steamer, and steam them until quite tender, but not overcooked. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, toss the crosnes in it and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle the parsley over and stir in the yolk of egg after removing the saucepan from the fire. Serve at once and very hot. Time to steam, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Asparagus (Asperges) Asparagus is a cultivated form of a wild sea- shore plant belonging to the lily family. It is a favourite vegetable on account of its delicious flavour, it is also wholesome and nutritious and possesses valuable diuretic properties. There are different kinds of asparagus on the market, the white, the violet, and the green. The white and the violet are sometimes forced to an enormous size and fetch a high price, but the green, which is more naturally grown, is cheaper and has often the most pronounced flavour. Care must be taken to choose the asparagus very fresh. If the heads droop and the cut ends of the stalks have a brown appearance, the vegetable is stale. If necessary it may be kept for a day or two by standing it with the stalks downwards in a jug of very cold water. The last shoots of the asparagus plant, which are X