342 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD may be made one day and then thoroughly reheated the following day. The pastry lining the basin should not be too thick, as it is apt to become sodden and indigestible. For this reason, and especially for a large pudding, the bottom of the basin is frequently left unlined and the sides only covered. Almost any kind of meat may be used for filling, or a mixture of meats. Examples of two or three different kinds are given in the following recipes, but almost any of the fillings given for a meat pie may be used for a meat pudding. It is not necessary to make a hole in the top of a meat pudding- as is the case with a pie, as the pastry itself is porous and allows the steam to escape. The only exception to this would be if the pudding were baked, when a small hole should be pierced and kept open in the top, but this is not a usual mode of cooking a meat pudding, and one scarcely to be recommended, as baked suet crust is not so light as that which is boiled or steamed. Small meat puddings may be turned out of their basins and have a little hot gravy poured round them. Large puddings are usually served in the basin with a heated and folded serviette tied or pinned round them. A small jug of hot gravy or boiling water should always be served separately. 1467. Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding 1 lb. beef (cut thin). 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. 3 table-sps. stock or water. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. Suet pastry. Prepare the meat according to directions given for Beef Steak and Kidney Pie (Recipe 1452). Take a 1J pint basin and grease it well with clarified butter or a little dripping. Then make some suet crust as in Recipe 1441, and roll it out to about \ inch in thickness. Line the basin with this, pressing it well in so as to take the form. Be careful, also, to get it smooth and of an equal thickness all over. Trim off round the edges and roll out these scraps into a round to form a cover. Fill up with the prepared meat, and pour in the ketchup and stock. The contents should be piled rather high in the middle as they shrink in cooking. Double down the edge of the pastry which lines the basin over the meat, and wet it with cold water. Place the round piece on the top and press the edges well together. Cover with a scalded and floured pudding cloth. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of fast-boiling water and boil quickly until thoroughly cooked. More boiling water must be added as required, and the pudding must never be allowed to go off the boil. When ready, lift out and let it stand for a minute or two. Then remove the cloth and wipe the basin. Heat a table napkin, fold it neatly and pin it round the basin, and serve the pudding thus, in the basin in which it was cooked. A small jug of boiling water or nice gravy should always be sent to the table with a meat pudding, as it will require filling up when the crust is cut. Note.—The pudding may be steamed instead ef boiled, but longer time for cooking must be allowed. Skirt steak may be used instead of ordinary steak ; it is cheaper and makes a very good and tasty pudding. The pieces of skirt should be dipped in boiling water for a minute or two to enable the skin to be peeled off them. Then cut them in small pieces and season as above. A few parboiled and sliced potatoes are sometimes mixed with the meat. Chopped mushrooms or onions may also be used for flavouring. Time to boil, 2\ to 3 hours. Time to steam, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1468. Kidney and Liver Pudding l lb. ox kidney. | lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. i lb. bacon. 1 table-sp. flour. Salt, pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of mace. A little stock. Suet crust. Wash the kidney and liver well, dry them in a cloth, and cut them in small pieces, carefully re- moving all fat from the kidney. Cut the bacon also in small pieces, cook it a few minutes in a hot frying pan, and then lift it on to a plate. Mix the flour, spices, pepper, and salt together and coat the pieces of kidney and liver with this. Now fry them in the fat left from the bacon, adding a little dripping if there is not sufficient. When nicely browned, mix the meat with the bacon and let all cool. Meanwhile prepare some suet crust (Recipe 1441). Line a greased basin, large enough to hold the meat with this, fill up with the meat, add a little stock or water, and cover with a round of crust. (For fuller directions see previous recipe.) Cover the pudding with greased paper and steam steadily until thoroughly cooked. To serve, either turn the pudding out of the basin and pour a little hot gravy round, or serve in the basin with a folded serviette pinned round. Time to cook, at least 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1469. Mutton Pudding 1J lbs. lean mutton. 3 sheep’s kidneys. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 4 or 5 potatoes. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. Suet crust. Any piece of lean mutton may be used for this, but a piece from the leg is best. Cut it in small pieces, removing the skin and most of the fat. Skin also the kidneys and cut them in pieces, re- moving the core from the centre. Mix the mutton and kidneys together and season them with the chopped onion, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Peel and parboil the potatoes and cut them in thin slices. Now line a greased pudding basin with suet crust, and follow directions given for Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding, filling with the meat and potatoes in layers and moistening with a little good stock. Steam or boil until thoroughly cooked, then turn out and serve with a little more stock or gravy poured round. Or, if preferred, the pudding may be served in the basin. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 1470. Partridge Pudding 2 partridges. Seasoning. £- lb. beef steak. Gravy. | lb. bacon. Suet crust. Draw and clean the partridges, and cut them up in small joints, removing the larger bones