COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 234 cut it in small pieces. Then grease a pie dish or fireproof dish and put a layer of meat at the bottom of it. Place a few thin slices of tomato on the top and season with pepper and salt. Next put a layer of bread-crumbs, then more meat, and so on until all is in. The last layer should be bread- crumbs. Pour in the stock, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until well browned. Note.—Sheep’s trotters can also be cooked ac- cording to any of the recipes given for Calves’ Peet. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 938. Scotch Haggis The liver, heart, and tongue of a sheep. A sheep’s paunch. 1 to 2 lbs. onions. I lb. oatmeal. | lb. suet. Salt. Pepper. Some stock or gravy. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of mace. Thoroughly cleanse the paunch, washing it first in cold water, then plunge it into hot water and scrape it on both sides. Cut it so as to form two or three small bags in which to cook the haggis, sewing up any holes and openings with a needle and strong cotton. Allow the bags to remain in cold water until wanted. To Make the Mixture.—Take the heart, liver, and if possible the tongue of a sheep, wash them well in salt and water, and then boil them slowly for If hours. Meanwhile, chop the suet, scald and chop the onions, and toast or bake the oat- meal until a golden brown. When the meat is ready, drain and dry it, and mince it finely, re- moving any parts that are uneatable. Mix the minced meat with the other ingredients, and season rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little spice. Moisten with stock or some of the liquor in which the meat was cooked. Then drain and dry the bags, fill them three-parts full with the mixture, and sew them up. Prick the skins here and there with a needle, plunge the haggis into a saucepan of boiling water with a plate at the foot, and allow them to boil slowly at least 2 hours, pricking them occasionally to prevent them bursting. After cooking, a haggis wall keep for several days, being re-boiled for a short time when wanted. It must be served very hot on a folded serviette. A small hole is cut in the skin, and the mince taken out with a spoon. It is often served as an entree. No sauce or gravy is required. Note.—The liver, heart, and tongue of a lamb will make a more delicate haggis than those of the sheep. PART IV VEAL 939. Loin of Veal, Roasted 4 to 5 lbs. loin of veal. Some slices of fat bacon or a little lard. 1 cupful boiling water. f table-sp. cornflour. I cupful stock. Seasoning. Wipe the meat, trim it neatly, and if necessary bind it round with a piece of tape. Mix 1 table- spoonful of salt and 1 tea-spoonful of pepper together and rub them into the meat. Then place the meat on a roasting tin and cover the top of it with thin slices of fat bacon, or with a coating of lard. Roast in a hot oven for 10 minutes, then baste and pour the boiling water into the tin. Continue the roasting, basting frequently until the meat is ready (see Rules for Roasting, p. 207). When sufficiently cooked, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove any binding tape, and keep the meat warm. Pour away the fat from the roasting tin, add the cornflour, and mix it into the browning. Add the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste, and strain some of it round the meat and the rest into a sauce boat. A few rolls of bacon should be put round as a garnish. Mashed potatoes and spinach d, la creme are nice accompaniments to this dish. Time to cook, 2 to 1\ hours. Sufficient for 7 or S persons. Probable cost, 4s. to 4s. 6d. 940. Breast of Veal, Stuffed and Roasted 3 to 4 lbs. breast of veal. I Rolls of bacon. Veal stuffing. | Tomato or brown sauce. Remove all the bones from the veal. (These must be kept for making stock or soup.) Then wdpe the meat with a damp cloth, trim it care- fully, and season it with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Prepare some veal stuffing as directed in Recipe 1281, adding to it a little cooked ham finely chopped. Lay the meat on a board with the skin side underneath, and spread the stuffing over it. Roll up and sew it up securely with a needle and fine string. Then flour the meat and roast it carefully, basting well (see Roasting, p. 207). When ready, lift the roll on to a hot dish, remove the string, and pour thin tomato or brown sauce round. Garnish with rolls of bacon or with small baked tomatoes. Note.—This joint may be braised instead of roasted. Time to roast, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 3s. to 4s. 941. Steamed Veal with Cauliflower 2 lbs. fleshy veal. 1 or 2 sticks celery. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. Pepper and salt. 1 gill milk. | pt. stock from veal. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Lemon juice. 1 cauliflower. Wipe and trim the veal and tie it with tape into a neat shape. Put it into a steamer or double boiler with the celery cut in small pieces, tb,e onion stuck with cloves, pepper and salt. Add also l tea-cupful water and steam the veal steadily until tender. Then make a sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and cook it a minute or two, stirring all the time. Now draw the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, pour in the milk and a \ pint of the stock from veal, and stir again over the fire until boiling. Cook the sauce for 5 minutes, then take it from the fire and stir in quickly 1 or 2 yolks of eggs, add also a squeeze of lemon juice and seasoning to taste. Serve the veal in the centre of a hot dish, removing the binding string or tape, pour the sauce over and garnish with sprigs of cooked cauliflower. Small rolls of bacon may also be used as a garnish. Time to steam, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d.