COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 498 as will be required for the savoury. Then dip the buttered side of each into sieved hard-boiled yolk of egg, making a yellow surface. Take some potted game, mix it on a plate with a little extra butter and more seasoning according to taste. Then with the butter hands roll this into balls, and put one on the top of each biscuit or cake. Garnish with a tiny bunch of cress, and serve as a cold savoury. Note.—If the game mixture is very soft, set it aside in a cool place before attempting to roll it. 2282. Canapes de Lax Lax. Seasoning. Small oatcakes or bis- cuits. Tarragon or parsley. Capers. Drain the oil from some lax, sprinkle it with some fresh salad oil, lemon juice, and white pepper, and let it stand for 1 hour or so. Butter some small crisp oatcakes or Parmesan biscuits, lift the lax from its seasoning, and arrange a few pieces neatly on the top of each. Decorate lightly with a few leaves of tarragon or small sprigs of parsley and green capers. This must not be prepared until a very short time before serving. 2283. Tartelettes de Lax 2 oz. lax. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. 1 filleted anchovy. 1 hard-boiled yolk. 2 table-sp. liquid aspic. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. A few capers. Seasoning. 6 or 7 tartlet cases. Make some small cases of anchovy pastry, either round or boat-shaped, bake them until crisp, and let them cool. To Malce the Mixture.—Drain the lax free from oil and then weigh it. Pound it in a mortar with Tartelettes de Lax the filleted anchovy, hard-boiled yolk of egg, and salad oil. When smooth, rub all through a fine sieve. Add the aspic jelly, and, when beginning to set, stir in the whipped cream. Season to taste, and set on ice until wanted. Then fill up the little cases with the mixture, using a forcing bag if pos- sible, and garnish with some thin strips of lax and a few capers. 2284. Petits Cornets de Homard cream. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 6 or 7 pastry cornets. Chervil or cress. 2 table-sps. cooked lobster. £ gill mayonnaise sauce. | gill aspic jelly. 2 table-sps. whipped Have the aspic jelly in a liquid condition, and whip it until stiff like the beaten white of egg. Add to it A gill thick mayonnaise sauce and the whipped, cream. Mix very lightly, and then stir in the lobster meat finely chopped. Add more seasoning if necessary, also I or 2 drops of carmine, or by preference a little prepared lobster spawn, or lobster butter. Have ready some little cornets made of anchovy or plain pastry (see Recipe 2250), and fill them with the lobster mixture by means of a forcing bag. Place a nice piece of lobster meat or a prawn at the mouth of each, and decorate with a little chervil or small cress. Serve neatly arranged, and very cold. Note.—The pastry may be brushed over with a little aspic jelly to give it a more finished appear- ance. 2285. Lobster Croustades (Croustades de Homard) 2 table-sps. lobster meat. 1 table-sp. mayonnaise sauce. 1 pickled gherkin. Small cress. 7 or 8 pastry croustades. Decorations. Make small pastry cases as directed in Recipe 2248, bake them and let them cool. Chop the lobster meat, add to it the gherkin finely chopped, moisten with the mayonnaise sauce, and season highly and to taste. Put a little carefully prepared cress at the foot of each croustade and then some of the lobster mixture on the top. Decorate with tiny strips of red chilli or with little bunches of small cress, &c. Note.—Crab, oysters, or even bloaters may be used in the same way. 2286. Mussels a la St. Vincent 3 doz. mussels. Mayonnaise sauce. 2 oz. picked shrimps. Green salad. Aspic jelly. Prepare and cook the mussels as in Recipe 312, and drain them from their liquor. Break them in Mussels A la St. Vincent pieces with a silver fork, and mix them with shelled shrimps. Add to them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls