COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 178 tender. Separate the stalks and wash and brush them well in cold water. If time permits let these lie for half an hour in cold water, then lift out and dry them well in a cloth. Then with a sharp knife cut the celery across in fine shreds and also shred the white of egg left from the salad dressing. Mix these two lightly together, pile them up in a salad dish, and pour the dressing over. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley, and garnish with little bunches of small cress and the small green tops of the lettuce. Curled celery may also be used as a garnish (Recipe 467). Allow the salad to stand about | hour before serving. Note.—A little ketchup or Worcester sauce is sometimes added to the salad dressing for a celery salad. 644, Celery and Walnut Salad (Salade de Celeri et Noix) 1 head of celery. [ Mayonnaise sauce, i lb. shelled walnuts. | A little cream. Use the white part only of the celery, wash it, cut it in fine shreds, and then dry it in a clean towel. Toast the walnuts in the oven for a few minutes, rub off as much of the brown skin as possible, and cut them in small pieces. Mix the celery and walnuts together with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls thick mayonnaise sauce and a little whipped cream. Add more seasoning if neoessary. Pile the mixture in the centre of a salad dish, and decorate with shred or curled celery (see Re- cipe 467) and a few halves of walnuts. This salad is very good served with poultry or game. 645, Chicken Salad Some cooked chicken. 1 lettuce. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. Some small cress. A few radishes. Mayonnnaise sauce. Cut the chicken in dice, removing the skin. Wash the lettuce and celery. Dry well and cut them in shreds. Mix these with the chicken, half the cress, and a little mayonnaise. Pile high on a salad dish, and pour some more mayonnaise oveD the top. Garnish with the small leaves of lettuce, radishes, and the remainder of the cress. Note.—Endive may also be used as a garnish, and cucumber used instead of celery. A hard- boiled egg cut in pieces may be added. 646, Chicken and Lettuce Salad (Salade de Volaille) Cooked chicken. Lettuce. Mayonnaise sauce. Small piece of cucumber and beetroot. White of egg. Take the breast, or the most tender part of a cooked chicken, and cut it in fine shreds free from skin. Cut a small piece of beetroot and cucumber in thin slices, season them with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of oil and vinegar, and let them lie from 15 to 20 minutes. Cut the white part of a nice fresh lettuce in shreds and have ready a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce. Now take a salad dish and arrange the beetroot and cucumber in circles next the outer rim. Pile the chicken and, lettuce in layers in the centre, moistening each layer with a little mayonnaise sauce and making all into a dome shape. Cover the whole with more mayonnaise, decorate the sides with rings of hard- boiled white of egg and place the heart of the lettuce on the top. 647, Crab Salad (Salade de Crabe) 1 boiled crab. 1 or 2 tomatoes. Small cress. Lettuce. Seasoning. Lemon juice. Mayonnaise sauce. Pick all the meat from the crab and shred it finely, carefully removing all pieces of shell. Put it into a basin, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Add to the crab some small cress and some tomato skinned and cut in small pieces. Moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce and mix lightly together. Arrange a few crisp leaves of lettuce in a salad dish, pile the crab mixture in the centre and pour a little more mayon- naise over the top. Decorate with small cress and pieces of tomato. 648. Crab and Tomato Salad 1 crab. Anchovy fillets. I 5 or 6 small tomatoes. Mayonnaise sauce. I Small cress. Lettuce. Choose nice red tomatoes of equal size, firm and ripe. Scald them for a minute and remove the skins. Then cut a small piece off the top of each and with a small tea-spoon scoop out the soft and seedy inside. Season with pepper and salt and turn the tomatoes upside down to drain. Mean- while chop the meat from a crab and mix it with a little mayonnaise sauce. Fill the tomatoes with this mixture, decorate the tops with small cress and fine strips of filleted anchovies. Place them on nice curly lettuce leaves and serve. 649. Cucumber Salad (Salade de Concombres) Cucumber. I 2 or 3 spring onions. White pepper, salt. I Salad dressing, No. 748. Choose a fresh, green, and firm cucumber. Peel and slice it as thin as a piece of notepaper. When doing this always commence at the thick end and slice towards the stalk; otherwise the cucumber is inclined to have a very bitter taste. Lay these slices on a plate with the onions washed and thinly sliced, and sprinkle them rather liberally with salt. Cover with another plate, stand for half an hour, and then pour off all the water that has exuded from them. This tends to make the salad more digestible. Then arrange the slices neatly in a salad dish and pour the dressing over. Note.—When served as an accompaniment to salmon the oil and onion should be omitted and vinegar only used with the seasoning. 650. Dandelion Salad (Salade de Dent de Lion) Dandelions. Salad dressing, No. 748. Select young fresh dandelion leaves, pick them carefully and remove any pieces of stalk. Wash them in plenty of cold water and let them lie in fresh cold water for \ hour. Then shake them dry in a salad basket, or dry them lightly in a cloth. Put the leaves in a salad bowl and mix them with