483 ICES fruit. For instance, put some lemon cream ice into some pretty glass cups, and then a spoonful of raspberry pur4e, which has been iced and flavoured with a little liqueur. Pile a little whipped and iced cream on the top and put the ices in an ice cave or on ice until required. Or, again, a raspberry ice crfeam may be used with a puree of raspberries or strawberries, or a walnut or coflee cream with apricot or pine-apple, and so on. These ices may be varied according to individual taste and the materials at hand. 2203. Ginger Ice Cream (Glace a la Creme de Gingembre) Make in the same way as Vanilla Ice Cream (Recipe 2217), adding 3 oz. preserved ginger cut in small pieces and a little of the syrup to the custard. 2204. Gooseberry Ice | pt. gooseberry puree. I A little green colouring. | pt. double cream. I 1 glass liqueur. To Make the Puree.—Top and tail some green gooseberries, wash them, and then stew them until soft with very little water, and enough sugar to sweeten. Rub the stewed fruit through a hair sieve and add to it whipped cream in the above proportion. Make a pale green colour with spinach- green, and if liked add a little liqueur. Freeze as directed on p. 479. 2205. Lemon Cream Ice—Economical (Glace a la Creme de Citron) 1 pt. custard. I 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 lemons. I A little yellow colouring. Wipe the lemons and grate the rind off very lightly. Rub the rind into the castor sugar and use this for sweetening the custard. Add the strained juice of 1 lemon and a little yellow colour- ing. Mix well and freeze. Note.—A better ice can be made by using half double cream and half custard as in Vanilla Cream Ice. 2206. Liqueur Ice Cream (Glace au Liqueur) 1 pt. double cream. I 2 or 3 glasses maras- 4 oz. castor sugar. | chino or other liqueur. Whip the cream and add the sugar very finely sifted. Pour in the liqueur, mix well, and freeze. Note.—A rich custard may be used instead of the cream, or half custard and half cream. 2207. Orange Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme d’Orange) Make in the same way as Lemon Cream Ice (see above), using the rind and juice of 2 oranges instead of the lemon. Add also one or two drops of carmine as well as the yellow to produce an orange colour. . 2208. Praline Cream Ice 1 pt. custard, f pt. cream. J lb. sugar. J lb. almonds. A squeeze of lemon juice. Blanch the almonds, chop them roughly, and make them very dry. Put the sugar into a small saucepan or sugar boiler with the lemon juice, melt it carefully over the fire, and let it become a good brown colour, then add the almonds, and stir constantly until they are brown also. Then pour the mixture on to a flat tin that has been greased with salad oil, and let it cool. When cold and hard, pound in a mortar until reduced to a powder. Add this powder to the custard while warm, then cool and half freeze. Whip the cream, stir it in lightly with a little liqueur or brandy, and freeze again until sufficiently stiff. Note.—If liked, some of the praline may be left rather coarser, and added to the ice at the last. 2209. Peach Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme de Peehes) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream Ice (see above), substituting peaches for apricots. 2210. Pine-apple Cream Ice, 1 (Glace a la Cr6me d’Ananas) Jib. tinned pine-apple. pt. custard. I gill thick cream. Juice of f lemon. Sugar. A little rum. Chop the pine-apple, put it into a mortar, and pound it to a pulp. Then add some of the liquid from the tin and rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Add the custard to the puree and strain in the lemon juice. Whip the cream, add it to the other ingredients with sugar to taste, and a little rum if liked. Then freeze. 2211. Pine-apple Cream Ice, 2 (Glace a la Creme d’Ananas) 1 small fresh pine-apple. ! 1 lemon. 1 pt. cream. | 6 oz. castor sugar. Grate the rind off the lemon and rub it into half the sugar. Put this flavoured sugar into a double boiler with half the cream, and scald them until the sugar is quite dissolved. Then stand this cream aside until cold, peel the pine-apple, taking out the eyes ; then cut it in quarters, and remove the core. Now grate it down or chop it very finely, strain over it the lemon juice, and sprinkle with the remainder of the sugar. Whip the re- mainder of the cream, and add it to that which has been scalded. Turn these into the freezing pot and half freeze them, then add the prepared pine- apple and lemon juice, and freeze again until suffi- ciently stiff. Note.—A little brandy or liqueur may be added to this ice if wished. 2212. Raspberry Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme de Framboises) Make in the same way as Strawberry Cream Ice (see below), substituting raspberries for straw- berries. 2213. Rice Cream Ice If pts. milk. 1 bay-leaf. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 oz. flour of rice. 1 gill milk. J- lb. castor sugar. 1 glass brandy or liqueur If gills cream. Put the milk, bay-leaf, and lemon rind into a saucepan and stand them at the side of the fire until hot and well flavoured. Then remove the