COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 600 Cerises I)eguis4es the boiling until the “ soft ball ” stage is reached, or 240° on the thermometer. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir the syrup with a wooden spoon or spatula, until it begins to turn white. Then stir in the cocoanut a nd pour into an oiled tin. Leave until cold, and cut in bars. Note.—The cocoanut ice may be made in two colours if wished. Pour about two-thirds of the white mixture into the tin, and colour the remain- ing part pink, with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. Keep the latter warm by standing the saucepan in boiling water, and in a few minutes’ time, when the white ice has set, pour the pink on the top. A cheaper cocoanut ice may be made by using brown moist sugar instead of the loaf. Note.—These should not be coated more than a few hours before they are wanted, as the moisture from the cherries works through the fondant and softens it. 2865. Cocoanut Creams Fondant. I Coating syrup. Flavouring. | Desiccated cocoanut. Take the required amount of ordinary fondant that has been boiled to 240°, and work it up on a marble slab, flavouring it to taste. Roll out into a long thin roll. Cut in small equal-sized pieces, and form these with the hands into balls or little rolls, using a little corn starch or icing sugar to prevent the fondant sticking. Lay these on a board or tin covered with paper, and let them he all night. Next day dip them into coating syrup (see p. 597), and toss them in desiccated cocoanut. Set aside to harden. Note.—Half the fondant may be coloured pink if liked. 2866. Cocoanut Ice, 1 1 lb. granulated sugar. I cocoanut. 1 gill milk. i A few drops of car- 4 to 6 oz. desiccated | mine. Put the milk and sugar into a saucepan, bring to the boil, and boil for 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Then add the cocoanut, and continue to stir until the mixture thickens, or reaches about 230° F., but on no account must it be allowed to brown. Pour out two-thirds of the mixture into a wetted tin or between bars on a marble slab, colour the remaining portion pink with a few drops of carmine, and pour it on the top. When nearly cold, cut in bars. Note.—Brown sugar may be used instead of the white, the colouring should then be left out; or, the cocoanut ice may be left all -white. 2867. Cocoanut Ice, 2 3 lbs. loaf sugar. I | tea-sp. cream of tartar b to J lb. cocoanut. or | tea-sp. lemon | pt. water. | juice. Either fresh or desiccated cocoanut may be used. If the former, remove all shell and brown skin, wipe the nut meat quite clean and then grate it; if desiccated cocoanut is used, chop it smaller if necessary. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar or lemon juice into a saucepan, bring them to the boil, skim if necessary, and then continue 2868. Cocoanut Kisses, 1 1 lb. loaf sugar. | 1 gill of water, i lb. glucose. I 6 oz.desiccated cocoanut. Put the sugar, water, and glucose into a lined saucepan, bring to the boil and skim. Put the lid on the pan and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. Then remove the lid and boil to 240° F. Take the sauce- pan off the fire, and add the cocoanut and a little flavouring if wished. Arrange in small rocky heaps on a papered tray, and leave them to dry. Note.—If liked, the mixture may be divided into two portions and one part coloured pink. 2869. Coflee Walnuts 1 lb. fondant. 5 or 6 doz. shelled wal- nuts. Coffee essence. Vanilla. Sugar syrup. Toast the walnuts for a few minutes in a moderate oven to make them crisp, and let them cool again. Then put the fondant, which has been boiled to 245°, into a saucepan with enough coffee essence to flavour and colour it, and a few drops of vanilla. Heat very carefully over the fire, using if necessary a little sugar syrup to prevent its sticking. Be care- ful it does not become too hot, and beat well until smooth and glossy. Put some of this coffee fondant on to a plate and let it cool slightly, then place a little between two half walnuts, press them lightly together, and let them set on a tin lined with wax paper. When finished, thin down the fon- dant in the saucepan writh sugar syrup until of a proper consistency for coating. It should be rather thicker than the ordinary coating fondant. Then cover the walnuts with this (see Coating with Fon- dant, p. 598), place them again on the tray to set, and finish them off with a little twist of fondant on the top of each; or this may be put on after- wards by putting some of the fondant into a paper cornet and forcing it out on the top. Note.—Instead of the fondant between the two half walnuts, a little marzipan flavoured with coffee essence may be used. 2870. Chocolate Tablet 1 lb. granulated sugar. I J lb. chocolate powder. b pt. water. | Vanilla essence. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, stir them over the fire until boiling, and then boil moderately quickly for J hour. Add the chocolate (or good cocoa may be used), stir a few minutes longer, flavour with vanilla, and pour into a tin