I STOCKS AND SOUPS 67 with the cold water, and bring slowly to the boil. Add a little salt and skim well. Then add the vegetables, herbs, and spices and simmer gently for 2 hours. Remove the pieces of tail and set them aside. Allow all that remains to boil 2 hours more, when it should be strained through a hair sieve and put aside till next day to get cold. Then remove the fat from the top of the stock, and put it into a saucepan with the whites and shells of eggs, and clear as directed for Consomme (see Recipe 117). Meanwhile trim some neat pieces of meat from the tail and heat them in a little stock. Reheat the cleared soup and add these pieces of meat as a garnish along with some pieces of cooked vegetable cut in fancy shapes. Notes.—The shin of beef may be omitted from this recipe if some clear light stock is available. This soup is sometimes thickened slightly with a little arrowroot. Time to cook, 4 hours first day, 30 to 40 minutes second day. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 136. Clear Soup k la Rachel (Consomm6 a la Rachel) This is the same as clear soup with quenelles (Recipe 134), but the quenelles should be in three different colours. Divide the quenelle meat in three parts, colour one part green with sap green or spinach or tarragon, another pink with lobster coral or beetroot juice, and leave the third part its natural colour. Shape the different mixtures in small egg-spoons or put each into a paper cornet and force it out as directed in Recipe 1298. Serve these quenelles in nice clear consomme. 137. Clear Soup with Ravioli (ConsommS aux Ravioli) 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. ltea sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream or white sauce. 1 yolk of egg. 2 pts. clear soup or consomme. jRavioli. 2 yolks of eggs. Flour, salt. 2 table-sps. cooked poultry or game. \ table-sp. cooked ham. To Make the Ravioli.—Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, add a pinch of salt and mix with enough sieved flour to make a stiff paste. Turn this out on a floured board and work with the hands until the paste no longer sticks to the fingers. Then roll it out until as thin as a sheet of paper and divide it into two equal-sized pieces. Chop the meat and ham finely, add to them the grated cheese and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Then moisten with the yolk of egg and a little cream or white sauce. Rub all through a sieve and add the chopped parsley at the last. With a tea-spoon place small portions of this mixture on one of the pieces of pastry, about 1 inch apart; slightly moisten the other piece of pastry with a little cold water or beaten egg and lay it on the top. Press the pastry round the meat mixture with the wrong side of a small cutter and then cut out with a cutter one size larger. The ravioli should be about the size of half a crown. About J hour before they are wanted, throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil for 10 minutes, then lift out with a draining spoon. Note.—Sometimes a little cooked spinach is added to the above mixture. To Serve.—Put the ravioli into the soup tureen and pour the consomme boiling hot over them. Hand grated Parmesan separately. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. Quantity, 2 pints. 138. Clear Soup a, la Royale (Consomme I la Royale) 2 pts. consomme clear stock. 2 whole eggs. or 1 yolk of egg. 1 gill clear stock. Pepper. Salt. Make a custard by beating the eggs and one gill of stock together, season carefully with pepper, salt, and if liked, a pinch of nutmeg. Strain the custard through muslin or a very fine strainer and remove the froth. Pour it into a small greased cup or basin, cover with greased paper and steam very slowly from 10 to 15 mins, until the custard feels firm to the touch. Let it cool in the mould, as this will make it more solid, then turn out on a clean board. Cut it first in slices about J inch in thickness, then stamp out in fancy shapes with small cutters, or cut into diamonds or dice with a sharp knife. The stamping or cutting must be done very neatly and regularly. Put these little custards in a hot soup tureen and pour the con- somme boiling hot over them. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 139. Clear Turtle Soup (Consomir6 a la Tortue) Make in the same way as thick turtle soup (Recipe 146) as far as the straining of the stock. Then clear in the same way as Consomme (see Recipe 117). No butter and cornflour must be used. Serve the soup with the pieces of turtle and forcemeat balls. Other Clear Soups Consomme Alexandra.—Clear soup with a garnish of small chicken quenelles, the white meat of chicken cut in dice and asparagus points. Consomme Andalouse.—Clear soup with a garnish of balls or strips of cooked cucumber and fancy shapes of tomato custard. Consomme Christophe Colombe.—Clear soup with a garnish of tomato custard and yellow custard cut in dice and a few green peas. Consomme k la Duchesse.—Clear soup slightly thickened with arrowroot and garnished with poultry or game cut in strips. Consomme k la Dubarry.—Clear soup slightly thickened with tapioca and garnished with small pieces of cauliflower, custard in dice, and rice. ConsommS h la Favorite.—Clear soup slightly thickened with tapioca and garnished with tongue or ham, mushrooms and artichoke bottoms cut in Julienne shreds. Consommd Hongroise.—Clear soup with a garnish of tiny balls of savoury choux paste cooked in the soup. Consommd k la Jerusalem.—Clear soup with a garnish of Jerusalem artichokes cut in shreds. Consomme Invernaise.—Clear soup with a garnish of small fancy shapes of carrot and quenelles cut in slices. Consomme Parmentier.—Clear soup with a gar- nish of small quenelles of mashed potato. Consomme Prince.—Clear soup with a garnish of small balls of turnip.-