INVALID COOKERY 539 Other Meat Dishes In addition to the recipes given above, many of the dishes in the Meat and Poultry sections would be suitable for invalids; the flavourings can always be modified to suit special requirements. Among other recipes the following might be consulted : Grilled Chop or Steak, Veal or Chicken Quenelles; Chicken, Veal, or Rabbit Cream; Roast Chicken or Game, Boiled Fowl, Broiled Chicken or Game, Stewed or Steamed Pigeon, Boiled Rabbit, Baked Tripe; Tripe with Onions, Oysters, or Tomatoes; Mutton Cutlets, Grilled Minced Steak, Steamed Mutton or Veal, Chicken Souffle, Fricassee of Chicken, Calf’s Brains, Calf’s Feet, Sweetbreads, &c. PART IV PUDDINGS AND SWEETS FOR INVALIDS For Milk Puddings, which are nearly all suitable for invalids, see p. 390. The egg may always be omitted if desired, because, although the pudding may be more nourishing with the egg, it is not always so digestible. In any case the white of egg should be beaten up separately from the yolk, as this intro- duces air into the pudding and makes it lighter. The flavourings used must always be of the simplest, such as grated lemon or orange rind, lemon or orange juice, grated nutmeg or cinnamon, a bay-leaf or piece of vanilla pod. Essences should as a rule be avoided. Avoid making the puddings too sweet or too firm in texture. ^ Jellies are nearly always acceptable to invalids, as they are cooling and easily taken. They must on no account be stiff, but should melt easily in the mouth and require no mastication. Although jelly made from calf’s feet is very delicate in flavour, it is a mistake to think that it is more nourishing than that which is made from gelatine, and provided a pure form of gelatine can be procured, there is really no occasion to take this extra trouble, unless it is specially wanted. Whether the jelly is made from stock made from a foot or from gela- tine, these in themselves are of little or no value, but rather a vehicle for conveying other forms of nourishment or restoratives. The French sheet gelatine is to be recommended for making jellies. It dissolves easily and has little taste. Isinglass, which is also used for stiffen- ing purposes, is the purest form of gelatine. 2557. Buttered Apples 2 apples. I oz. butter. | A pinch of ground cin- £ oz. sugar. [ namon. Choose good sound apples. Peel them, cut them in halves, and remove the cores. Arrange them in a fireproof dish, well greased with. some of the butter, and sprinkle with sugar and a little powdered cin- namon or grated lemon rind. Place the remainder of the butter in small pieces on the top, cover with greased paper or another dish, and bake in a moderate oven until the apples are soft and lightly coloured. Time to cook, \ to f hour. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 2558. Apple Cream 2 baked apples. I A squeeze of lemon juice i gill of double cream. | Sugar to taste. Remove the pulp from two baked apples, rub it through a fine wire or hair sieve, scraping the sieve well underneath, and put the pulp into a basin. Add to it the cream, a squeeze of lemon juice, and sweeten to taste with castor sugar. Beat this well for a few minutes, and serve in a small glass dish. A few ratafia crumbs may be sprinkled over the top. Note.—Custard may be used instead of cream. Probable cost, 4d. 2559. Water Arrowroot £ oz. arrowroot. £ pt. cold water. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Put the arrowroot into a small basin, add to it a table-spoonful of the cold water, and break it with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. Then pour on the rest of the water, mix well, and pour into a small lined saucepan. Stir this over the fire until it boils and thickens, and then let it boil from 7 to 10 minutes longer, to thoroughly cook the arrow- root. Sweeten to taste, and serve in a cup or small basin. A little nutmeg may be grated over the top of it, and wine or cream added as desired. Note.—It is not sufficient to break the arrowroot with a little cold water, and then to pour boiling water on to it until it turns clear. This only half cooks the arrowroot, and might prove most in- jurious to the patient, besides being so sticky that it is most disagreeable to take. Buy the best arrowroot. Some of the cheap arrowroots are not wholesome. 2560. Arrowroot Made with Milk J oz. arrowroot. £ pt. milk. | tea-sp. sugar. Prepare in exactly the same way as water arrow- root, using milk instead of water. 2561. Baked Bananas Wash the bananas and cut off the ends. Put them on a tin or dish in the oven, and bake them until the skin bursts open like a baked apple. Serve hot with sugar and cream. A little lemon juice may be sprinkled over the bananas if they are found wanting in taste. 2562. Bananas and Cream Peel one or two bananas, and cut them in very thin slices with a silver knife. Dust them over lightly with castor sugar, and arrange in a small glass or china dish. Add the juice of half an orange, or, if it is allowed, a little wine or liqueur, such as noyeau or kirsch. Cover and set in a cool place about 15 minutes. Then whip 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream until thick, sweeten to taste, and pile this on the top of the bananas. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d.