100 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Have the fish well cleaned, trimmed, and cut in small neat pieces. Put the trimmings into a sauce- pan with the water, peppercorns, mace, parsley roots, and salt to taste. Simmer slowly for at least one hour, strain and return the liquid to the stew- pan. Put the pieces of fish into this liquor, and cook them slowly until tender. Lift them out on a hot dish, add the chopped parsley to the liquor in the pan, and pour it over the fish. Serve hot, and hand brown bread and butter separately. Note.—A little grated horse-radish is sometimes added to the fish liquor before putting in the fish. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Whitebait (Blanchailles) A very small fish of a silvery appearance, very highly esteemed. It is considered a great delicacy on account of its delicate flavour and tenderness. It is a special favourite with the Londoner, and is caught in large quantities near the mouth of the Thames. It is usually fried and served hot, al- though when cold it may be served with mayonnaise. 265. Whitebait, To Fry (Blanchailles Frites) 1 pt. whitebait. Flour. Salt. These fish must be perfectly fresh, and should be carefully looked over to free them from weeds or other undesirable matter. Wash and rinse them in icy cold water, handling them as lightly as possible, and leave them in a colander or basin with a lump of ice until they are wanted. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat or oil (see p. 248). Spread the fish on a clean cloth to drain. In another cloth put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls flour, place a few of the whitebait on the top and toss them in it Whitebait until evenly coated, and separate one from the other. Empty the bait without delay into a fry- ing basket, and shake well to let the loose flour fall out. Plunge it into the hot fat and fry about 2 minutes, shaking the basket gently all the time. The whitebait must not be coloured this first frying. Lift out the basket, allow the fat to drip from it, and turn the fish on to paper to drain. Proceed with more in the same way until all are finished. Then allow the fat to reheat, put back the fish into the basket (there may be as many as the fat will cover this time), and fry them a second time until brown and crisp, about 2 minutes. Drain on paper and season with fine salt. Serve at once on a hot fish d’oyley, and garnish with quarters of fresh lemon. Thin brown bread and butter should be handed separately. Notes.—In large establishments it will save time to have two saucepans of fat for frying whitebait, bo that it can be finished off at once The success of the dish depends on little and fight handling, quick flouring, and hot fat. When properly done the whitebait should be crisp, and each fish distinct and separate. Time, about 5 minutes to fry. Sufficient for 4 persons. 266. Whitebait, Devilled (Blanchailles a la Diable) Prepare in the same way as last recipe, sprinkling the whitebait with freshly ground black or red pepper before the second frying. 267. Imitation Whitebait 1 filleted sole (medium). A little flour. Seasoning. Cut the fish in narrow strips, resembling the shape of the whitebait, as much as possible. Season these, toss them lightly in flour, and then cook them in exactly the same manner as whitebait (Recipe 265). Serve piled up on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Whiting (Merlan) A well-known fish of very delicate flavour. The flesh is tender and very easy of digestion, and for this reason it is a great favourite for invalids. It is called “ the chicken of the sea.” Besides the recipes given below whiting may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking haddock. 268. Whiting, To Fry (Merlans Frits) Whiting. 1 Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. | Seasoning. Small whiting are generally served whole. Skin and clean them, but do not cut off the heads. Put a little flour (1 tea-spoonful for each whiting) on to a plate, and mix with it some pepper and salt. Dip each fish into this and coat them lightly. This dries the fish and makes it fry a better colour. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and press the Fried Whiting crumbs well on with a knife. Fix the tail through the eye or mouth, and fry them to a nice brown colour in hot fat. If the fish are very small they may be fried in deep fat, but if rather large a small quantity of fat in a frying pan will be better. Drain on kitchen paper, serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Maitre d’hotel butter, or any suitable fish sauce, may be served separately. Allow 1 whiting per person.