442 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1968). Pour it into a wet mould, and allow it to set. Notes.—This jelly can be ornamented inside with sections of orange. Put a layer of jelly into the mould first. When it is set, arrange upon it a crown of sections of orange, cover them with jelly, set again, and continue thus until the mould is full. Mandarin orange sections are the best to use when obtainable. Probable cost, 10d. to Ls. 1982. Orange Quarters Cut two or three oranges in half crossways, and carefully remove all the inside without destroying the peel. If a small hole should be made at the stalk end of the orange, fill it up with a little butter. Make some clear orange jelly according to direc- tions given above, and colour half of it pink with a few drops of carmine. Place the orange cups in a tin with a bed of salt or broken ice, arranging them so that they stand straight and steadily. Fill them with the jelly, making an equal number of each colour, and let them stand until firm and set. To serve, cut the half oranges in two with a very sharp knife, and arrange the two colours alternately on a silver or glass dish. A few vine leaves or sprays of maiden hair, if obtainable, may be put on the dish first. Note.—This makes a pretty dish for children’s parties. 1983. Orange Sponge Make in the same way as Lemon Sponge (see Recipe 1977), using half orange and half lemon rind and juice. 1984. Port Wine or Claret Jelly (Gelee au Vin Rouge) \ pt. port or claret. | pt. water. The rind and juice of 1 lemon. \ lb. loaf sugar. 1 inoh cinnamon stick. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. 3 cloves. 1 oz. sheet gelatine. 2 or 3 drops of car- mine. Put into a small lined stewpan the water, sugar, red currant jelly, cinnamon, and cloves. Cut the gelatine into small pieces, and add it with the lemon rind peeled off very thinly and the strained juice. Stir over the fire until the gelatine is quite dissolved. Simmer for a few minutes, and add the wine. Do not boil again. Strain through a piece of muslin, and if necessary add a few drops of cochineal or carmine. When nearly cold, pour into one large or several small moulds that have been rinsed out with cold water. Set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. Turn out when required, and, if wished, decorate with whipped and sweetened cream. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 1985. Prune Mould or Jelly, 1 (Moule aux Pruneaux) J lb. prunes. 2 oz. white sugar. Rind of b lemon. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 inoh cinnamon stick. b pt. water. 1 oz. sweet almonds. 1 glass claret. 1 gill whipped cream. Sugar and flavouring. Wash the prunes, and allow them to soak at least half an hour in the cold water. Then put both into a clean lined saucepan, and add the lemon rind thinly peeled, the cinnamon stick, and sugar. Stew until quite tender, then strain off the liquid and rub the prunes through a sieve. Crack the stones, blanch the kernels, and add them to the pulp. Put the liquid from the prunes into a saucepan, add to it the claret and gelatine, and dissolve carefully over the fire. Strain this into the pulp, and stir occasionally until nearly cold. Rinse out a border mould with cold water, and decorate it with some sweet almonds, blanched and shred, fill up with the prune mixture, and set aside in a cool place until firm. Then turn out and serve with whipped and flavoured cream in the centre. Decorate with some chopped pistachio nuts, or with a few glac6 cherries cut in small pieces. Note.—A pretty sweet can be made by decorating the mould with some clear jelly and pistachio nuts before pouring in the prune mixture. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, la. 4d. Another Way, 2 Make in the same way as above, but leave the prunes whole. The wine may be omitted and a few drops of pink colouring added. Another Way, 3 Make in the same way as Fig Jelly (Recipe 1974), using prunes instead of figs. Raspberry jelly may be used instead of the lemon, and a few drops of carmine added to give colour. 1986. Raspberry Jelly Cream 1 pt. packet raspberry r 2 oz. castor sugar. jelly. I 2 or 3 drops carmine. Hot water. j 1 glass red wine. 1 gill double cream. | Fresh raspberries. Dissolve a packet of raspberry jelly according to the directions given, using a little less water than what is stated, and making up the quantity with red wine. When the jelly is beginning to cool, pour it in a border mould and put it in a cool place to set. A short time before the jelly is required, turn it out on a crystal or silver dish. Whip the cream, add to it the sugar, colour it pale pink with carmine, and stir in at the last minute a few fresh rasp- berries carefully picked. Pile this in the centre of the jelly, and decorate with a few more rasp- berries, and, if liked, a little chopped pistachio nut. Note.—A strawberry-jelly cream may be made in the same way. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1987. Raspberry Sponge 1 lb. fresh raspberries. 3 oz. castor sugar. Rind and juice b lemon. \ oz. gelatine. 1 gill water. 3 whites of eggs. A few drops of car- mine. Pick the raspberries, crush them in a basin with the sugar, and rub them through a hair sieve. A wooden or silver spoon must be used for this, as metal would discolour the fruit. Put the gelatine (pink gelatine is best), water, and thinly-peeled lemon rind into a saucepan, and heat them slowly over the fire until the gelatine is dissolved. Strain into the raspberry puree, add the lemon juice.