573 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES the saucepan, and beat the mixture until cold. Dry and sieve the flour, and stir it in very lightly. Then put the mixture into a forcing bag with a nozzle the size of a sixpenny piece at the end of it, and force out finger-shaped pieces of the mixture on a sheet of white paper. Dredge well with sugar, and shake the loose sugar off. Put the paper with biscuits on a baking tin, and bake in a good oven. Then wet the paper underneath, and the biscuits will come off easily. Place two together, and allow them to cool on a sieve. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be baked in special spongo finger tins. Time to bake, 7 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2742. Ginger Biscuits £ lb. flour. I lb. butter. 4 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. ground ginger. A little sherry. Sieve the flour, sugar, and ginger into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then form into a stiff paste with sherry, turn on to a floured board, and knead with the hands until free from cracks. Flour a rolling-pin, and roll the paste out very thinly. Cut it into small round or fancy- shaped pieces with a cutter, lay them on a greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. . Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. 2743. Gingerbread Nuts £ lb. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. dripping or lard. 2 table-sps. treacle or syrup. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. £ tea-sp. carbonate of soda. ‘ Grated rind £ lemon. 2745. Macaroons £ lb. ground almonds. i A squeeze of lemon £ lb. castor sugar. juice. 3 to 4 whites of eggs. ' Wafer paper. Put the almonds and sugar into a basin, and add the lemon juice and the whites of eggs very gradu- ally, beating well with a wooden spoon or spatula. Beat thoroughly and make the mixture just moist enough to drop from a spoon. Put it into a forcing bag with a plain pipe at the end, and force out small portions on rounds or squares of wafer paper. This quantity should make twelve. Dust over with icing sugar, which will make the macaroons crack on the top, and place a half blanched and split almond on the top of each. Bake in a very moderate oven until nicely browned, dry, and well risen. Lift on to a sieve to cool, and break off any scraps of wafer paper that extend beyond the edges. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Probable cost, 8 d. or 9d. 2746. Milan Biscuits £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. £ lb. sugar. 1 tea-sp. rum. 1 egg. 1 yolk of egg. A little grated lemon rind. 1 pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the other ingredients, and knead with the hand until all is formed into one lump. Turn the paste on to a floured board and roll it out to about J of an inch in thickness. Stamp out in little cakes with a cutter, and place them on a greased baking tin. Brush over with beaten yolk of egg, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2747. Milk Biscuits Put the dripping, treacle, and sugar into a sauce- pan and let them melt over the fire. Put the flour, ginger, and lemon rind and juice into a basin. Add the soda to the hot mixture in the saueepan, and pour all into the centre of the dry ingredients. Mix all together into a smooth paste, form into small balls the size of a marble, and place them on a tin lined with greased paper. Allow the nuts to stand for £ hour, then bake them in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2744. Lemon Biscuits £ lb. flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. 1 egg. Grated rind £ lemon. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. A few chopped almonds. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add to it the grated lemon rind, and rub these two together until the sugar is quite yellow. Sieve the flour on the top, and then rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the lemon juice and enough beaten egg to bind all together. Roll out rather thinly and stamp out in rounds or fancy shapes. Place the biscuits on a greased tin, brush them over with egg, sprinkle with chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. £ lb. flour. 1 gill of milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and make it just lukewarm. Pour this into the centre of the flour, and mix all together. Flour a baking-board, turn the paste on to it, and knead with the hands until free from cracks. Then roll out as thin as possible, and prick all over with a fork or biscuit pricker. Stamp out in rounds with a cutter about three inches in diameter, place the biscuits on a greased tin, and bake them in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. The oven must not be too hot, but regular. When the biscuits are ready, remove them from the tins and put them on a sieve or wire stand to cool. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2748. Neva Biscuits £ lb. sugar. A pinch of cream of tartar. 2 eggs. £ lb. flour. A few drops carmine. A few chopped almonds. Sieve the sugar into a basin, add the eggs and cream of tartar, stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and beat with a wire whisk until light and frothy. Then remove the basin to the table.