COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 616 Coffee, to be good, should be freshly roasted and freshly ground. When this cannot be done at home, it should be bought in very small quantities, and kept in a tin box with a tight-fitting lid, or in a bottle with a good stopper. Coffee should also be kept apart from other strong tasting or smelling substances, as it very readily absorbs any foreign flavour. If pure coffee is wanted, chicory should not bo used. Chicory imparts a slight bitterness to the coffee, and darkens the colour, and some people prefer coffee with it. The usual proportions are 2 oz. chicory to 1 lb. coffee. The water, as for tea, must be freshly boiled. It is also important to have the coffee pot very clean. There is an oily substance in coffee which not only adheres to the sides of the pot, and clogs up the holes of the percolator, but if not removed, will give the next coffee made in the pot a bad flavour. The coffee pot must be taken to pieces, and each piece well washed with very hot water, hen rinsed and dried. There are many different k;nds of cafetieres, and some of them are more complicated than others, but the method is nearly always the same. For ordinary use, there is perhaps nothing better than the earthenware fireproof pot. Whatever kind is used, it must be one in which the straining is perfect, or the coffee will not be clear. First fill the cafetiere with boiling water, let it stand until thoroughly heated, and pour the water away. Then put in the required amount of coffee —the quantity will vary accord- ing to the taste of the consumer ; but a very good proportion is Earthenware one table-spoonful coffee to each Coffee Pot half pint of boiling water. Pour the boiling water gently and gradually over the coffee, and let it filter slowly through. Keep the pot standing in a warm place or in a saucepan of slowly boiling water, and serve as hot as possible. Coffee, to be good, must be hot. If there is no percolator attached to the coffee pot, it is a good plan to have a metal ring made to fit the top of the coffee pot inside. To this ring sew a muslin bag, and fit the bag into the pot. Pour some boiling water through it, and when it is well warmed, pour the water away. Put the coffee into the bag, and proceed as before. Coffee can also be made in a jug. Heat the jug thoroughly with boiling water, and pour the water away. Put the coffee into the jug, and stand it on the top of the stove for a few minutes until the coffee is hot. Then pour the proper quantity of boiling water over it, and stir with a spoon. Cover the jug with a lid or thickly-folded cloth, and let it stand by the side of the stove for fifteen minutes. Have the jug or pot in which the coffee has to be served made very hot. Stretch a piece of muslin over it, and strain the coffee through. 2967. Coffee with Milk (CafS an Lait) When milk is served with coffee, it should be scalded, but not quite boiled. The proportions are equal quantities of strong coffee and milk, or two- thirds milk to one-third of coffee. A little cream may be added. 2968. Black Coffee (Caf6 Noir) This is very strong, clear coffee, served without milk. No chicory should enter into its composi- tion. It is served after luncheon or dinner, and large crystals or small cubes of sugar should be handed separately. Or, some people prefer raw sugar ; this is a matter of taste. 2969. Iced Coffee, Black (Cafe Frappe) 1 pt. strong clear coffee. I 2 oz. sugar. 1 table-sp. brandy. Mix the ingredients together in a jug, and set deep in ice until wanted. Before serving, add a lump of ice, and hand-whipped and iced cream separately. 2970. Iced Coffee (White) Cafe au lait is also very good if put in a jug, sweetened to taste, and stood on ice until icy cold. It makes a very refreshing drink in hot weather. 2971. Viennese Coffee Make good, black coffee and serve it with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top of each cup. 2972. Turkish Coffee This is a very strong form of black coffee, which is generally made in a special pot and served in special cups, which are very small. The pot, which is much wider at the base than at the top, Turkish Coffee Pot' is placed on a stand over a spirit lamp, and the little cups have generally an outer case of metal by which to hold them. Good Java and Mocha coffee are the best to use, and they should be freshly ground and roasted. Allow 1 tea-spoonful of coffee to each cup required. Measure the neces- sary amount of water into the pot, and bring it to the boil. Stir in the coffee, and bring just to boiling point again. Remove the pot from the flame, let it stand a minute, and then bring it to the boil again. Repeat this three times, bringing the coffee each time to boiling point and no more. At the last boil up, throw in a tea-spoonful of cold water, and extinguish the flame. Let the coffee settle, and then pour off the clear liquid very gently into the cups. Serve sugar in large crystals separately, and if liked, some thinly-sliced lemon as well.