619 DRINKS AND BEVERAGES dissolved, bring to the boil, and boil 3 or 4 minutes. Skim, and add the brandy. Strain the syrup through fine muslin, bottle and use as required. Add some of this syrup to iced water, or aerated water, for a summer drink. 2992. Rum Punch 3 pts. cold water. \ pt. strong tea. 1 lb. loaf sugar. f pt. rum. 4 oranges. 1 lemon. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, add the thinly-peeled rind of half a lemon and one orange, stir until dissolved, bring to the boil and boil 5 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the juice of the lemon and all the oranges, the tea, which must be well made and strong, and 4 pint of good rum. Strain care- fully, and serve either hot or cold. 2993. Sherry Punch Put a wine-glassful of sherry into a tumbler with the strained juice of one orange and half a lemon. Add sugar to taste, and about 2 table-spoonfuls finely-crushed ice. A few thin slices of orange or lemon, free from pits, may also be added, or a few raspberries and strawberries when in season. Sip the punch through a straw. 2994. Sloe Gin Sloes. Unsweetened gin. Cloves. Barley sugar or sugar candy. Essence of almonds or noyeau. Choose ripe sloes, wipe them well, pick off the stalks, and prick each one several times with a needle. Have ready some clean and dry quart bottles, and half fill them with the fruit, shaking it well down. To each bottle add 1 clove, 2 oz. crushed sugar candy, and a few drops of essence of almonds or a little noyeau. Then fill up with unsweetened gin. Cork the bottles securely, and keep them in a moderately warm place for three months, shaking them occasionally. At the end of this time, open the bottles and strain the gin through fine muslin until clear. Then re-bottle and cork securely again, and store till wanted. Note.—Damsons may be used in the same way. 2996. Cider Cup 2 pts. sparkling cider. 1 to 2 oz. castor sugar. A sprig of borage. 1 lemon. 2 bottles soda water. 1 small glass brandy. Cut the lemon in slices, and put that, and all the ingredients except the soda water, into a large jug, and stand on ice for 1 hour at least. Then strain off into another jug, and add the soda water, also iced, at the last. This is a very cooling and refreshing drink. 2997. Claret or Burgundy Cup 1 bottle claret. 2 bottles soda or seltzer water. Loaf sugar to taste. A sprig of borage or verbena. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 inch cucumber. 1 glass brandy or liqueur, or 1 gill sherry. Ice. First dissolve some loaf sugar in a little boiling water, and let it stand until cold. This will keep the claret cup clearer than if powdered sugar were used. Put the claret into a large jug, add the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, and the juice as well, if liked, or the juice of an orange may be used. Add also the cucumber cut in slices, a sprig of verbena or borage if obtainable, and the brandy, sherry, or liqueur. Sweeten to taste with the dis- solved sugar, and stand the jug imbedded in ice for 1 hour. Then strain, add the soda or seltzer water which has also been on the ice, and a few small pieces of ice. Note.—There are many variations of this drink, almost every household having its own recipe. 2998. Chablis Cup 1 qrt. bottle chablis. 2 bottles seltzer or soda water. 1 liqueur glass brandy or maraschino. A sprig of borage or 2 slices cucumber. 1 orange or 1 lemon. Powdered sugar. Put the wine into a large jug with the liqueur, an orange or lemon thinly sliced, the sliced cucumber, or borage, and powdered sugar to taste, or 1 or 2 oz. crushed sugar candy. Surround the jug with ice and let it stand for 1 hour, then add the soda or seltzer water, also iced, at the last. A piece of ice may also be added to the cup itself. Strain when decanting. A few pieces of fresh fruit may then be added. 2995. Tea Punch 2 pts. tea. 2 lemons. I 3 oz. sugar. 1 orange. | Crushed ice. The tea must be strong and well made. Pour it boiling hot over the sugar and the grated rind of the orange. Add the juice of the two lemons, and allow the liquid to stand until cold. Then strain, add the orange cut in thin slices and free from white pith, and serve the punch in tall glasses with a little crushed ice. This makes a very re- freshing drink in hot weather. Other fruits may be added, such as shred pine-apple, strawberries, banana, &c., and a little soda water may be mixed with the punch before serving. Note.—A little good brandy or rum may be added. 2999. Champagne Cup 1 qrt. bottle champagne. 2 bottles soda or seltzer water. ldessert-sp.castor sugar. 1 glass Curasao or other liqueur. Juice of 1 orange. A sprig of borage or verbena. \ inch cucumber. If time permits, stand the champagne and seltzer water on ice for some time before making the cup. Then put all the ingredients into a large jug, adding the cucumber cut in two or three slices, and the sugar very gradually at the last, or this latter may be omitted altogether. Cover the jug and let it stand well surrounded with ice for 1 hour, or, if ice is scarce, one or two lumps may be put into the champagne cup before serving. When required, decant free from cucumber and herbs.