HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 515 in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and bake in a good oven about 20 minutes, or until nfcely browned and well risen. 2409. Cheese Sandwiches (Hot) Bread and butter. Grated cheese. Seasoning. 1 egg. | tea-cupful milk. Clarified fat or butter. Spread four or six slices of bread with butter, mixing a little mustard or cayenne with the butter before using it. Trim the crusts off the bread, and then sprinkle the slices with as much grated cheese as the butter will take up. Press the cheese well on to the butter, place two slices together, and then cut in convenient-sized pieces. Beat up the egg on a plate, and mix it with the milk and a little salt. Dip the sandwiches into this and let them soak for a minute or two, then fry them in a small quantity of hot clarified fat or butter, browning them on both sides. Serve hot, sprinkled with a little grated cheese. 2410. Cheese Toast with Bacon 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour, lto 1£ gills milk. /Zio 4 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Rolls of bacon. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and cook these two together for a minute or two. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in 1 gill of milk. Stir until boiling and cook Cheese Toast with Bacon 2 or 3 minutes longer. Now add the cheese and seasoning with cayenne, a little mustard, and salt if necessary. Allow the cheese to melt, but not boil, and if too thick add more milk. Spread this mixture on neat pieces of hot buttered toast, and lay some rolls of bacon (see Recipe 1646) on the top. Serve very hot. 2411. Cheese and Tomato Rarebit I lb. Cheddar cheese. 1 gill tomato puree. 2 table-sps. bread- ' crumbs. A pinch of cayenne. \ tea-sp. made mustard. 2 slices hot buttered toast. Grate or shred the cheese finely, and put it into a saucepan with a pinch of cayenne and the mustard. Add the bread-crumbs and 1 gill of fresh or tinned tomatoes rubbed through a fine sieve. Stir over the fire until hot and smooth, but do not let the mixture boil. Cut the toast in pieces, arrange them on a hot dish and porn) the cheese and tomato mixture over. 2412. Cucumber and Nut Croquettes 3table-sps. bread-crumbs 1 or 2 table-sps. white or tomato sauce. J tea-sp. mixed herbs. Seasoning. 1 cucumber. A little flour. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Stuffing. 2 table-sps. nuts. Peel the cucumber and cut it in pieces about 1 inch thick. With a small round cutter stamp out all the seedy part from the centre, leaving rings of cucumber. Place these in a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, add a little salt and a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice, and boil for 10 minutes. Then drain, rinse in cold water, and let the rings of cucumber he in the folds of a towel until they are thoroughly dry. To Prepare the Stuffing.—Use pine nuts, walnuts, or Barcelona nuts, or a mixture of nuts, and chop or grind sufficient to make 2 table-spoonfuls. Mix these in a basin with the bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and a little very finely powdered mixed herbs. Then bind together with white, tomato, or any tasty sauce, but be careful not to make the stuffing too moist. Fill up the hole in the centre of the cucumber ring with the stuffing, coat the pieces lightly with flour, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Serve with tomato sauce as a vegetable entree. 2413. Egg and Ham Kromeskies 2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 oz. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Grated lemon rind and juice. Seasoning. A little flour. Bacon. Frying batter. Warm the sauce, which must be thick and good, in a small saucepan and add to it the eggs and ham, both finely chopped. Add also the chopped parsley, a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Mix well and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. Then form it into small cork-shaped rolls, using a little flour to pre- vent it from sticking to the board and knife. Cut some small and very thin slices of bacon, wrap the egg rolls in these, then dip them in frying batter, and fry in boiling fat. 2414. Gniocchl I lb. semolina. | pt. milk. | pt. water or 'white stock. Butter. Grated cheese. Salt. Pepper. 1 egg. White bread-crumbs. Put the milk and stock or water into a saucepan, and bring them to the boil. Sprinkle in the semolina like rain, and stir a few minutes until smooth and thick. Then add half the butter, and cook a few minutes longer, stirring all the time. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the egg well beaten and half the cheese (Gruyere or Parmesan is the best). Season to taste with pepper and salt, and spread the mixture on a greased plate, and let it stand until cold. Now cut it into squares, or form it into quenelle-shaped pieces with a spoon, and arrange these in a greased and fireproof dish, sprinkling them with more