COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 54 and return the soup to it to reheat. Mix the corn- flour smoothly with the milk, add them to the soup and stir until boiling. Simmer 10 or 12 minutes longer, sprinkle in the parsley, and season to taste. Serve with croft tons of fried bread, or toast cut in dice. Note.—A little cream may be added if liked, or the yolk of an egg put in the soup tureen and the soup poured on to it, stirring all the time. Time to cook, 2 to 2£ hours. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 63. Pea Soup (Soupe aux Pois Casses) Make in the same way as lentil soup. Recipe 55, substituting split peas for the lentils and allowing the soup at least one horn longer to cook. The time will depend very much on the age of the peas, but they should be fresh and not old and musty. Fried crofttons of bread and dried mint, finely powdered and sieved, should be served separately. The latter must never be sprinkled over the soup, as it is not liked by everyone. Notes.—Whole dried peas can also be used for making soup, but they will require a still longer time to cook. The addition of 1 or 2 tomatoes gives a nice flavour to the soup. 64. Pea Soup from Pea Flour 1 qt. meat boilings. A piece of carrot, turnip, and onion. 2 oz. pea flour. 1 pt. skim milk. Pepper and salt. Put the meat boilings into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Prepare about 1 cupful each of carrot, turnip, and onion, cut in very small pieces, and add them to the boiling liquid. Add salt if necessary and simmer for 1 hour, or until the vege- tables are tender. Mix the pea flour to a smooth paste with the milk, add them to the soup and stir until boiling. Boil 15 to 20 minutes, add more seasoning if necessary, and serve dried and powdered mint separately. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 65. Portuguese Soup (Potage Creme Portugaise) 1 medium-sized onion. 4 or 5 tomatoes. 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Water or stock. Seasoning. 1 lump of sugar. 2 table-sps. rice. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion cut in thin slices without allowing it to brown. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them in pieces and add them to the onion and butter. Mix in the flour and add enough stock or water to cover the tomatoes. Put on the lid and allow the soup to simmer slowly until the vegetables are quite soft. Then rub it through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, return the puree of tomatoes to it and thin down to a proper consistency with more stock or a little milk. Bring to the boil, add the remainder of the butter broken in small pieces, a lump of sugar to counteract the acidity of the tomatoes, and the rice previously cooked in stock but not broken. Time to cook, 1| hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 66. Potato Soup (Potage aux Pommes de Terre) 1 lb. potatoes. 1 or 2 sticks of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 2 onions. I oz. butter or dripping. II pts. stock or meat boilings. £ pt. milk. Seasoning. Wash and peel the potatoes and then weigh them. Cut them in thin slices and let them lie in cold water a short time. Wash and shred the celery and skin and slice the onions. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, drain the potatoes and add them to it, with the onion and celery. Put the lid on the pan and cook over the fire for a few minutes without browning, then pour on the stock, add the seasoning, and simmer slowly from 1 to 1J hours, or until the potatoes are quite soft. The soup must be stirred frequently as it is liable to burn, and should it become too thick more water or stock must be added. When sufficiently cooked, sieve or not as preferred, and add the milk at the last. Serve with fried crofttons or with toast cut in dice. Notes.—Any remains of cold potato may be used up in this soup, and a small ham bone cooked in it is an improvement. This soup is not good when the potatoes are new and waxy. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 67. Potato and Leek Soup 1 lb. potatoes. 3 leeks. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 2 pts. water or vegetable stock. J pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sago. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. White pepper and salt. Wash and peel the potatoes thinly, then weigh them. Cut them into thin slices, and throw into cold water. Cut the roots and most of the green off the leeks, split them lengthways with a knife, removing the outside skin, and wash them well in cold water. Then slice them thinly and throw them into cold water. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, strain the water from the leeks and potatoes, and add them to it. Stir these over the fire for a few minutes, until the vegetables absorb the fat, then pour on the stock or water, and simmer slowly for 1| hours, or until the potatoes are quite soft. Wash the sago in cold water, put it into a basin with the milk, cover it over and let it soak while the soup is cooking. When the soup has cooked sufficiently, rub it through a sieve or colander into a basin, pressing through as much as possible. Rinse out the saucepan, return the soup to it with the sago and milk, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil from 5 to 10 minutes longer to thoroughly cook the sago, add the parsley and season to taste. Serve sippets of dry toast separately. Notes.—This soup may be served without sieving, but it should then be well beaten with a wooden spoon or whisk to break up the vegetables. Tapioca may be used instead of sago. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 68. Potato and Tomato Soup 4 large cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. J pt. tomato puree. 1J pts. light stock or broth. | pt. milk. Salt. Pepper. The potatoes used should be dry and mealy. Peel them and rub them through a wire sieve or