COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 112 325. Scallops, To Stew (Petoncles a la Maltre d’Hotel) 8 scallops. I pt. maitre d’h6tel sauce. Wash and drain the scallops. Remove the beard and black part, and cut them in three or four pieces. Put the sauce into a double cooker, add the prepared scallops to it, and cook until tender. If no double cooker is available, put the oysters and sauce into a basin or jar and cook in a sauce- pan of hot water. When ready, serve in a deep dish and garnish with sippets of toast or fried bread. Time to cook, about 30 minutes Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 326. Scalloped Scallops (Petoncles en Coquilles) Scallops. Lemon juice. Salt, pepper. White bread-crumbs. Chopped parsley. Butter. 328. Scallops k la Fran^aise (Coquilles St. Jacques a la Fran^aise) 2 or 3 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning. 2 tab.-sps. bread-crumbs. 2 tab.-sps. grated cheese. A little butter. f doz. scallops. A few mushrooms. £ tea-cupful bread. J tea-cupful milk. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Put the scallops into a moderate oven in their shells, allow them to remain until the shells open; they will then be cooked. Remove them from the shells, wash and clean them, and cut them in dice. Cook a few mushrooms separately in a little butter and lemon juice, cut them in small pieces, and mix them with the scallops. Add to them about a tea-cupful of bread soaked in the milk, the white sauce, parsley, and seasoning. Mix lightly to gether. Put the mixture into greased scallop shells, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese; put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and brown in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Sufficient for 6 scallop shells. Choose perfectly fresh scallops, open and remove them from the shells. Cut off the beard and black part, and wash them thoroughly to free them from all sand and grit. Then scald them in their own liquid or in boiling water for 5 minutes, and drain. Wash and scrub the deeper shells and dry them. Grease them with butter and sprinkle a few bread- crumbs over. Lay two or three scallops, cut in several pieces, into each shell, and season with pepper, salt, lemon juice, and a little chopped parsley. Cover with more bread-crumbs, and put some small pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, and serve hot, garnished with cut lemon and a little parsley. Note.—Some good white sauce may be used to moisten the scallops if liked. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Allow 2 or 3 scallops per person. 327. Curried Scallops (Petoncles en Karl) 1 doz. scallops. J pt. fish stock. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour. A squeeze of lemon juice Seasoning Wash the scallops and cook them slowly in \ pint of fish stock or milk and water for \ hour. Then strain, reserving the liquor. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped, and fry it a few minutes. Add the rice flour and curry powder, and mix them well in. Then pour in the liquid from the scallops, stir until boiling, and simmer from 10 to 15 minutes. If this sauce is too thick, thin it down with a little more fish stock or milk. When ready, add the scallops cut in pieces, and season to taste. Arrange neatly in a deep dish, and serve boiled rice (Recipe 1586) separ- ately. Note.—This dish may be cooked en casserole, and served in the same dish. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Shrimps (Crevettes) There are two different kinds of shrimp, the brown and the red. The red or rose-coloured shrimp is considered the best, and is the most expensive. As a rule shrimps are sold ready boiled. They can either be served plainly boiled or made up with various sauces. They are also much used for garnishing. 329. Shrimps, To Boil Have ready on the fire a saucepan of fast-boiling water, salted in the proportion of 1 tablespoonful of salt to 1 quart of water, or make it as salt as sea water. Plunge the shrimps into this, and boil them until they change colour. They must not be overcooked. If served plainly boiled, oil and vinegar or vinaigrette sauce should accompany them. 330. Shrimp Croquettes 1 cupful picked shrimps. Some scraps of pastry. 1 or 2 table-sps. fish sauce. Chop the shrimps, but not too finely, and bind them together with a little good fish sauce. An- chovy or shrimp sauce is very suitable; it must be very thick, and the mixture must not be made too moist. Roll out some scraps of unsweetened pastry very thinly, and cut it out in rounds between 3 and 4 inches in diameter. Place about a tea- spoonful of the shrimp mixture in the centre of each, wet round the edges of the pastry with a little cold water, and then gather them together, pulling them up to the centre of the croquette and then pinching them together. Fry the croquettes in hot fat, drain well, and serve garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 10 or 12 croquettes. 331. Potted Shrimps A pinch of mace. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. f pt. picked shrimps. 3 oz. fresh butter. Seasoning. A pinch of nutmeg. Put the picked shrimps into a small saucepan with most of the butter, heat gradually over the