341 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 1465. Veal and Ham Pie (Patd de Veau et de Janbon) 1463. Rabbit Pie 1 rabbit. 4 to 6 oz. ham or bacon. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. dripping or butter. (PSt6 de Lapin) Grated lemon rind. Hard-boiled egg. Salt, pepper. A little stock. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. 1 lb. fillet of veal. 4 to 6 oz. ham. 1 hard-boiled egg. Salt, pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A little grated lemon rind. 1 gill stock. Lemon juice. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Choose a young and tender rabbit. Wash it, and let it lie in salt and water for | hour. If the strong flavour is objected to, it may be blanched as well. Then dry it and cut it in small neat joints (see p. 291). Coat these joints with flour and fry them a few minutes in hot butter or dripping. Put the joints of rabbit, thus prepared, on to a plate, add to them the bacon cut in thin strips, and season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and the grated rind of \ lemon. Mix all together, and then put the mixture into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre. Pour in a little stock, and arrange the hard-boiled egg, cut in 6 or 8 pieces, round the sides. Cover the pie with dripping crust, rough- puff or flaky pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and the meat feels tender, being very particular to keep the hole in the top open all the time. Rabbit pie may be served either hot or cold; if it is to be eaten cold, fill it up when cooked with stock that will jelly when cold. Note.—Salt pork cut in small pieces may be used instead of bacon, and a little onion may be added. A better pie may be made by boning the rabbit and cutting the flesh in small neat pieces, the bones being used for stock. A little force- meat (Recipe 1281) may also be added to the pie, either in the form of balls or in a layer in the middle of the pie. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1464. Sheep’s Head Pie 1 sheep’s head. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Stock. Dripping crust. Clean and cook the head as directed in Recipe 920. Then take the meat from the bones and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Season the meat well with pepper, salt, grated lemon rind, a little nut- meg, and the chopped parsley. Mix all together lightly, and then put the mixture into a pie dish, piling it high in the centre. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in sections, arrange them round the meat, and add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the liquid in which the head was cooked. Cover the pie with good dripping crust (Recipe 1440), or, if preferred, rough- puff pastry, and bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and well cooked. Fill up the pie with more stock and serve garnished with parsley. Note.—A little bacon cut in small pieces may be mixed with the head if liked. Time to bake, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Wipe the veal with a damp cloth and cut it in small neat pieces, free from skin and bone. Re- move the rind and rust from the ham, and cut it also in small pieces. Season the meat with pepper, salt, grated lemon rind, a very little lemon juice, and chopped parsley. Mix well and moisten with a little cold water. Pack the meat loosely into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre, and arrange the egg, cut in small pieces, in a circle on the top. Then cover and bake according to direc- tions given on p. 337. When ready, pour in the stock through the hole in the top, and serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. to 2s. Qd. 1466. Venison Pie (P£t6 de Chevreuil) 2 lbs. venison. 2 table-sps. flour. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. Salt, pepper. Liver farce. 1 glass red wine. Stock. Some good pastry. Any well-hung piece of venison may be taken for this; a piece from the neck, breast, or shoulder will do very well. Wipe it well, trim it free from all skin, and cut it in small pieces. Mix the flour with the spice, pepper, and salt, and toss the pieces of venison in the mixture. Prepare some liver farce as in Recipe 1271, and pack the venison and farce in a pie dish in layers. Pile the meat rather high in the centre of the pie dish, and put a smooth layer of farce over all. Pour in a glass of red wine and as much stock as the dish will hold. Cover well with greased paper or with another dish and bake in a moderate oven for 1 \ hours. Then allow the contents of the dish to become quite cold before covering with some good pastry, as directed on p. 337. Bake again for 1J hours, and fill up the pie with some good stock. This pie is best served cold. Note.—The liver farce may be omitted, but some thin slices of bacon fat, or hard mutton fat, should be mixed with the venison, otherwise it would be too dry. Time to bake, 3 hours in all. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Cost uncertain. MEAT PUDDINGS These are made by lining a greased basin with suet crust and filling it with a meat mixture of some kind. A covering of the crust is then put on the top and the pudding is boiled or steamed. Success in making a meat pudding will depend very much upon its being allowed proper time to cook. If it is required for an early dinner it must be put on to boil or steam quite early in the morn- ing, or it will not be satisfactory. It is absolutely necessary, therefore, that the ingredients required are in the house the night before, or the pudding