PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 423 Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Drop in the two yolks of eggs, and with a wooden spoon mix a little of the flour gradually into them. Then add about half the milk very gradually, mixing in the flour by degrees from the sides of the basin. Keep the batter thick enough to allow of all lumps being rubbed smooth, then beat well until it is full of air-bubbles. Add the rest of the milk, and, if possible, allow the batter to stand for an hour at least before using it. Just at the last, stir in quickly and lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Melt some lard in a saucepan, and let it stand by the side of the fire to keep warm. Put a little into a small frying or omelet pan, and make it smoking hot. Then pour quickly into the centre of the pan half a gill or so oi batter. If the fat is hot enough the Pancakes batter will run all over the pan at once, whereas if it has not quite reached the required heat, the pan may have to be tilted a little to get the batter to cover it properly. Allow it to rest for a minute or two until set and nicely browned on the under side, then slip a broad-bladed knife round the edges, and either toss the pancake over or turn it with the knife. Brown on the other side, then slip the pancake on to sugared paper, strew sugar over it, sprinkle with lemon or orange juice, and roll up. Keep this pancake hot on a plate placed over hot water until the rest are cooked. Each pancake will require a little fresh fat added to the pan. Serve them very hot, and as quickly as possible, and send cut lemon or orange to table with them. Notes.—For pancakes, choose a perfectly clean frying or omelet pan. If it is a new one, or one which has been out of use for some time, it ought to be seasoned, or the first pancake will be sure to stick. To do this, put some lard into the pan, and heat it until it begins to turn brown ; then pour it away, and wipe the pan well with a soft cloth or with pieces of paper. Then add fresh lard to fry the pancake. A little salt heated in the pan is also a good thing for cleaning it. The pancakes may be made richer by adding more eggs to the batter, and keeping back some of the milk, or one ounce of butter melted may be added. They may be varied by spreading them with some nice jam before rolling them up, and sprinkling them with sugar, either plain or flavoured. Or they may be sprinkled with vanilla chocolate powder, one pancake put flab on the top of the other, leaving the last one plain, and served with cream. Instead of milk, half beer and half tepid water may be used for mixing the batter, and a little rum or liqueur may be added. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1890. Apple Pancakes 2 apples. 2 or 3 eggs. I 2 table-sps. flour. 2 table-sps. sugar. | Juice of i lemon. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Peel the apples and either grate or chop them finely. Add them to the yolks and sugar, along with the flour and lemon juice. Mix together and stir in the stiffly beaten whites of eggs at the last. Make small pancakes with tins mixture as directed above, and serve them one on the top of the other well dredged with sugar. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1891. Meringued Pancakes with Apples (Pannequets Meringues aux Pommes) Pancake batter. 1 oz. sugar. Flavouring. 2 or 3 apples. 2 whites of eggs. 1 oz. butter. \ lb. sugar. Vanilla. Make the pancake batter according to Recipe 1889, and let it stand a short time. Meanwhile make a marmalade with the apples. Peel and slice them, put them into a saucepan with the butter and cook them until tender, adding a little water if necessary. This will depend on the kind of apple used. When ready, add the sugar. Flavouring may be added according to taste. Then make some small pan- cakes and lay them out flat on a board. Put a spoonful of the apple marmalade in the centre of each, roll them up, and then double up the ends, making an oblong-shaped parcel, as it were. Place these on a baking tin with the folds underneath. Then make a meringue with the whites of eggs and sugar, flavouring it with a little vanilla. Put it into a forcing bag with a fancy pipe at the end, and force it out on the top of the pan- cakes so as to cover them entirely. Brown in the oven and serve hot. Sufficient for 10 or 12 pancakes. Probable cost, Is. 1892. Pancake Fritters 1 egg. 1 oz. flour. I A pinch of salt. 2 table-sps. milk. | Sugar and lemon. Mix the flour smoothly with the egg, and beat well until full of air bubbles. Then thin down with milk, and add a good pinch of salt. Allow the batter to stand some time before using it. Then drop it by dessert-spoonfuls into a pan of hot fat and fry until brovra and crisp. The fritters will puff out and become quite hollow. Drain them well, sprinkle liberally with sugar, and serve with cut lemon. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost, 3d. or 4d. 1893. Peach or Apricot Fritters (Beignets aux Peches ou aux Abricots) Peaches or apricots. Macaroon or biscuit crumbs. Castor sugar. Cut the fruit in halves the stones. Sprinkle the Liqueur or other flav- ouring. Frying batter. or quarters, and remove pieces with sugar and a