PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 343 and as much of the skin as possible. Wipe the pieces well and wash the liver and heart, which may be used in the pudding. Cut the beef in small pieces and the bacon in strips. Put the bacon into a etewpan and when it is thoroughly hot put in the partridge and beef. Season with pepper, salt, and a little spice. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to cook by the side of the fire or in the oven until brown. The saucepan should be shaken occasionally to prevent the contents sticking. When ready, turn all on to a plate and set aside until cold. Then line a basin with suet crust, fill up with the above mixture, pour in a little stock or water, and finish as directed for Beef Steak Pudding (Recipe 1467). Steam or boil until thoroughly cooked. During this time the bones and trimmings of the game should be made into a little gravy to serve with the pudding. Note.—Any other small birds may be used in the same way, and veal may take the place of the beef. Time to cook, at least 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. 1471. Veal and Kidney Pudding 1 lb. lean veal. 1 veal kidney. J lb. sausage meat. 3 oz. bacon. 2 table-sps. flour. Seasonings. 3 table-sps. stock or water. Suet crust. Cut the veal and kidney in small pieces, and roll them in the flour, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Cut the bacon in small thin strips, free from rind and rust, and roll the sausage meat into small balls, using a little flour. Now proceed as for Beef Steak and Kidney Pudding (Recipe 1467), lining a basin with suet crust, and filling it up with the above meat mixture. Pour in the stock or water before putting on the cover. Boil or steam until thoroughly cooked. Note.—Small forcemeat balls may be used instead of those made of sausage meat. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. Cd. RAISED PIES Raised pies can be made in two different ways ; they can either be raised by hand or shaped and baked in a special mould for the purpose. When raised by hand a hot water crust, such as is given in Recipe 1444, is usually taken. While the paste is still warm it can easily be formed into the desired shape, then as it cools it hardens and will retain its form. When the pie is formed in a mould, a plain crust, generally mixed with egg, is taken (Recipe 1445). A mixture of butter and lard is, as a rule, used for this, as butter alone is apt to make too soft a crust. A raised pie mould usually opens at the side (see illustration), to enable the pie to be easily dislodged from it. Small pies can either be raised by hand or shaped in tin rings or rims. Examples of the various ways of making these pies are given below. The meat filling may, of course, be varied ; in fact almost any of the fillings given for an ordinary meat pie may be used for a raised pie. Raised pies are generally served cold, and to look and cut well they should be rather solid in texture. This is why they should be filled up with Raised Pie Mould jelly stock, which, when set, will fill up all the spaces. For the same reason a good farce or sausage meat is frequently used in the packing of a raised pie. 1472. Raised Veal and Ham Pie (P&td de Veau) | lb. fillet of veal. 2 oz. ham. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Salt, pepper. Grated lemon rind and juice. Some jelly stock. Raised pie-crust. First prepare the meat according to directions given in Recipe 1465, and leave it ready on a plate. Make the quantity of raised pie crust as given in Recipe 1444, turn it out as hot as possible on a floured board, and knead it lightly until free from cracks. To Shape the Pie.—Cut off about a quarter of the quantity for the lid and decorations of the pie, wrap it up in paper, and keep it warm over steam. Roll out the other piece into a strip 4 inches wide and rather thin. Keep it very even at the edges, and of an equal thickness all over. Wet along one side and one end with a little cold water or beaten egg. Bring the two ends together so as to form a ring, and make them overlap, pressing them well together. Then gather one of the sides together so as to form a bottom for the pie. Stand it up and make it into a good shape with the hands. Fill up with the meat mixture, pressing it down