COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 540 2563. Banana Custard Pudding 1 or 2 bananas. Sugar. Grated lemon rind. 1 tea-cupful of milk. 1 egg- A little butter. Peel and slice the bananas with a silver knife. Lay them at the foot of a greased pie dish, and sprinkle with sugar and grated lemon rind. Beat the egg in a small basin with the milk, and strain over the bananas. Put some small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2564. A Light Batter Pudding 1 table-sp. flour. I A pinch of salt. | table-sp. suet. 1 egg. | 2 table-sps. milk. Mix the flour smoothly with the egg, and beat well until full of air bubbles. Add the suet very finely chopped, and thin down with the milk to the consistency of thinnish cream. Allow the mix- ture to stand for J hour if possible, then pour into a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned and well risen. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 2c?. or 3c?. 2565. Beef Tea Pudding 1 gill of beef tea. I 1 table - sp. bread- 1 egg. I crumbs. Beat up the egg with the beef tea. Put the bread- crumbs into a small greased pie dish, and pour the beef tea and egg over them. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and let the pudding stand about 10 minutes, until the bread-crumbs are thoroughly soaked. Then bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Serve hot. Time to bake, 10 minutes. Probable cost, 6c?. 2566. Chocolate Cream 2 oz. grated chocolate. I 1 gill double cream. 2 table-sps. water. j Put the chocolate into a saucepan with the water, and stir over the fire until dissolved, and cool slightly. Whip the cream until thick, and add the chocolate to it. Mix well, and sweeten if necessary. Serve in a small glass or china dish. Probable cost, 6c?. 2567. Cornflour Charlotte 4 or 5 finger biscuits. £ pt. milk. 1 level table-sp. corn- flour. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. butter. A few drops vanilla. Bed-currant jelly. Take a good-sized mug or a jam pot with straight sides, and grease the bottom with salad oil or melted butter. Then line the sides with finger biscuits split and neatly trimmed, fitting them closely together. Put most of the milk on to boil with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Mix the cornflour smoothly with the remainder of the milk, and add it to the rest. Stir over the fire until boiling, and cook for a few minutes ; add sugar and vanilla or any other flavouring to taste. Cool Blightly, and then pour into the lined mould. Set aside until cold, then turn out and decorate the top with a little red-currant or other bright-coloured jelly. Notes.—Arrowroot or rice flour may be used in- stead of the cornflour. A table-spoonful of cream or the yolk of an egg may be added instead of the butter. Probable cost, 6d. 2568. Custard Pudding (Steamed) 1 egg. 1 tea-cupful milk. A little sugar. Beat up the egg with' the milk, add sugar to taste, and strain into a greased cup or basin. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top, and steam very slowly until set. Turn out carefully, and serve plain or with a little cream. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 3c?. 2569. Fig Mould J lb. figs. 1 gill water. I i lemon. A little sugar. | J oz. gelatine. Wash the figs and, if time permits, allow them to soak an hour in the water. Then put them into a saucepan along with the water, add the grated rind and juice of | lemon, and stew slowly until the figs are quite soft. Lift out the figs and cut them in small pieces, removing the stalks. Dis- solve the gelatine in the liquid, adding a little water if it has become too thick. Strain this over the figs, and pour all into a wetted mould. When set, turn out and serve with cream. Probable cost, 4c?. 2570. Invalid Fruit Tart A lc?. sponge cake, or 2 finger biscuits. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. $ gill of milk. 1 large apple. 2 table-sps. water. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Stew the apple with the water and sugar until soft, and put it at the foot of a small greased pie dish. Cut the sponge cake or finger biscuits in slices, and place them on the top. Separate the yolk from the white of the egg. Beat up the yolk in a basin -with the milk, and pour it over the sponge cake. Let the pudding stand for a few minutes, and then bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Have the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, add the tea-spoonful of sugar to it, and pile it on the top of the pudding. Return to the oven until the white is set and very lightly brown; then lift out, and sprinkle with sugar. Note.—Any other stewed fruit may be used instead of apples. Probable cost, 4c?. or 5c?. 2571. Prune Souffle J lb. cooked prunes. I 1 table-sp. castor sugar. 2 eggs. I 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. The prunes should be well cooked. Drain them from any syrup, remove the stones, and cut them in four pieces. Put the sugar and yolks into a basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until of a pale creamy consistency. Add the lemon juice (a little wine or liqueur may be used instead of this) and prunes, and mix them well in. Then beat up the whites of the two eggs to a very still froth, and