POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 281 Note.—If preferred, the galantine may be coated with white chaudfroid sauce (Recipe 714) instead of the glaze, and decorated with truffle cut in fancy shapes. 1142. Chaudfroid of Chicken, 1 (Chaudfroid do Volaille) Cooked chicken. I Aspic jelly. Chaudfroid sauce. | Salad,&c.,fordecoration Cut the chicken into neat joints, removing as much of the skin as possible. Place the joints on a draining tray, or on a dish turned upside down, and coat them all carefully with white chaudfroid sauce (see Recipe 714). Give them two coatings of the sauce if necessary. Then decorate the joints lightly and tastefully. For this may be used small fancy shapes of tongue, ham, or truffle, tiny sprigs of chervil, leaves of tarragon, fancy shapes of the red part of radishes or tomato, &c. The decoration must on no account be overloaded; the more delicately it is done, the prettier the effect will be. After decora- ting, run a little aspic jelly over each joint, so as to give them a glossy appearance, then let them set. To Serve.—The decorated joints may either be arranged round a high crouton of bread placed In the centre of a dish, or on some nicely dressed salad. Put a border of chopped aspic round, and decorate with tufts of green salad or some cut cucumber (see p. 313). 1143. Chaudfroid of Chicken, 2 (Chaudfroid de Volaille) Take a cooked fowl, leave it whole, and let it be very cold. Remove from it as much of the skin as possible. Place it on a large dish or on a draining tray and mask it entirely with chaudfroid sauce. To look well, the masking should all be done with one pouring over of the sauce. It is important, therefore, to have a sufficiency of sauce to begin with and then to have it of the right consistency and heat. If too hot, it will run off the fowl, and if too cold it will have a lumpy appearance. A little practice and experience will soon teach tins. When the sauce is set, remove the fowl to a clean dish and run a little liquid aspic over the top to give a gloss. Garnish the fowl according to taste. The more simply this is done the better. A variety of different colours and materials will only give it a trumpery appearance,and perhaps there isnothing prettierthan some fancy-shaped pieces of aspic, or chopped aspic and a few sprigs of fresh green parsley or chervil. 1144. Mayonnaise of Chicken (Mayonnaise de Volaille) Prepare in the same way as Chaudfroid of Chicken, using mayonnaise sauce instead of chaudfroid sauce. 1145. Cold Fowl a la St. Honors (Poularde a la St. HonorS) 1 cooked fowl. Filling. £ lb. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. tomato puree or sauce. 3 or 4 table-sps. double cream. Paprika pepper. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Decorations. Meat or aspic jelly. Carrot,truffle, and white of egg cut in fancy shapes. To Prepare the Fowl.—Either roast the fowl, or, better still, cook it as directed in Recipe 1131. It ought to be a nice brown colour all over and very tender. When cold, ease the legs away from the body without quite separating them, and carefully remove the flesh from the breast in one long piece on each side. Then with a pair of scissors cut away the upper part of the carcase bone, leaving the fowl quite hollow in the centre, and ready for the filling. Lay the fillets from the breast on a board, with the skin side uppermost, and, with a sharp knife, cut them in slices lengthwise without quite separating the pieces. To Make the Filling.—Trim the ham, removing all gristle and skin, and chop it finely or put it through the mincing machine. Then pound it well in a mortar with the tomato puree or sauce, seasoning with Paprika pepper. Add the cream by degrees until the mixture is of a nice creamy consistency, but not too soft. If necessary, add a few drops of carmine to make the mixture a pretty pink colour. To Finish.—Fill up the hollow in the fowl with this, giving it again the form of the whole bird. Lay on the breast pieces at each side, separating the slices a little so as to show some of the white. Decorate the top where the filling shows with fancy- shaped pieces of cooked carrot, truffle, and white of egg, or any other garnish preferred, covering the filling entirely. Brush over with meat or aspic jelly in a slightly liquid condition, and, when §et, serve the fowl with chopped jelly round. This is suitable for a cold luncheon dish. 1146. Chicken Cream (Creme de Volaille) Make in the same way as Veal Cream (Recipe 1096), using the white part of a chicken in place of the veal. 1147. Mousse de Volaille | lb. chicken flesh. 1 tea-cupful thick be- chamel sauce. 3 yolks of eggs. \ pt. cream, Seasoning. Decoration. Green peas, carrot, and turnip. Sauce supreme. Shred the flesh from the chicken finely with a knife, removing all nerves and pieces of skin. Pound it well in a mortar, adding the bechamel sauce (cold). Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and when well pounded add the yolks of egg and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of cream unwhipped. Mix well and rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Then whip the remainder of the cream and mix it gradually with the meat puree, but, before all is in, test the mixture by steaming a small quantity in a little mould. Keep back some of the cream if it is likely to make the mousse too soft. Grease a plain souffle mould and decorate it with green peas and cooked carrot and turnip cut in fancy shapes, covering the mould entirely with the decoration. Pour in the mixture, which should nearly fill it, place it in a saucepan with cold water to come half-way up the sides and bring it to simmering point over the fire. Then place them in the oven, and allow the water to simmer slowly until the mousse is well risen and feels firm to the touch. When ready, allow it to stand a few minutes before turning it out. Serve with sauce supreme poured round. Notes.—Veal may be used instead of chicken. Some of the cream may be omitted and whipped