RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES 375 until all are used up. The last layer should be cheese. Cover with the bread-crumbs, put some small pieces of butter here and there on the top, and place in a good oven until nicely browned and thoroughly hot through. Serve with fingers of dry toast or small slices of brown bread and butter. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 1612. Macaroni with Green Peas 1 lb. macaroni. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 large cupful green peas £ tea-sp. ground ginger. A sprig of mint. A little butter. 4oz. macaroni. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onions. 1 dessert-sp. flour. £ pt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. tomato ketchup or 1 fresh tomato. Seasoning. 1614. Macaroni a l’ltalienne (Macaroni & l’ltalienne) 6 oz. macaroni. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. chopped pickles £ pt. tomato sauce or puree. 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. 3 oz. grated cheese. £ tea-sp. sugar. Salt. Pepper. Break the macaroni in small pieces, boil it as directed in Recipe 1606, and drain well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the chopped onion, and cook for a few minutes without browning. Add the tomato sauce or a puree from tinned tomatoes, also the chopped mushrooms and pickles, and seasoning to taste. Simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Grease a fireproof dish, put into it first a layer of the macaroni and sprinkle it with cheese; then some of the sauce, more macaroni and cheese, and so on until all are in. The last layer should be sauce with a little cheese sprinkled on the top. Brown in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove and serve very hot. Note.—The cheese may be omitted if preferred Probable cost, 9d. 1615. 2 oz. macaroni. 6 oz. cooked ham. 2 oz. grated cheese. 2 eggs. Seasoning. Macaroni and Ham Cake 2 table-sps. melted butter. A few browned bread- crumbs. Cook the macaroni as directed in Recipe 1606, and cut it in short lengths. Then mix it in a sauce- pan with the grated cheese and butter, and season with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Heat slowly until the cheese is melted and the mixture is thoroughly hot. Cook the peas in boiling salted water with a sprig of mint, drain them, and then toss them in a saucepan with a small piece of butter, the ground ginger, pepper, and salt. Arrange the macaroni in a circle on a hot dish and pile the green peas in the centre. Probable cost, Id. to 9c?. 1613. Stewed Macaroni (Macaroni au Jns) Cook the macaroni in salted water until tender, drain it, and cut it in small pieces or chop it roughly. Add to it the ham finely chopped, grated cheese, and melted butter. Mix all together, seasoning with pepper and a little made mustard. Now stir in the yolks of the eggs thoroughly, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiS froth. Have ready a plain mould greased and coated with brown bread- crumbs, pour the mixture into this (it should about three-parts fill the mould) cover with greased paper, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with mushroom, tomato, or any other suitable sauce. Time to cook, | hour. Probable cost, Is. 1646. Macaroni and Ham Pie 6 oz. macaroni. 3 oz. cooked ham. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 cupful milk. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Cook the macaroni for 10 minutes in boiling salted water, then drain and cut it in pieces about an inch in length. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion, and cook it for a few minutes without browning. Add the flour and mix it in smoothly, then pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and tomato ketchup, or a fresh tomato cut in pieces and rubbed through a sieve. The flavouring may be varied to suit individual taste. Put the macaroni into this sauce and let it stew very slowly by the side of the fire until it is quite tender. Serve in a hot dish, sprinkling a little chopped parsley over. Time to stew, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost. Id. or 8d. Cook the macaroni as directed in Recipe 1606, drain it, and cut it in small pieces. Chop the ham and grate the required amount of cheese. Now arrange these ingredients in a greased pie dish in layers, reserving a little cheese for the top. Beat up one or two eggs, add the milk and a little white pepper, and strain this over the pie. Sprinkle with the cheese, lay the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about £ hour. Probable cost, 10c?. 1617. Macaroni and Walnut Scallops tomato sauce. Salt. Pepper. A few bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. 2 oz. macaroni. 3 oz. shelled walnuts. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 2 table-sps. brown or Cook the macaroni and cut it into £ inch lengths Roast the walnuts for a few minutes and chop them moderately fine. Mix these two together with the sauce, parsley, and seasoning. Then grease out a few scallop shells and sprinkle them with bread- crumbs. Fill them with the mixture, sprinkle with more bread-crumbs, and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned on the top. Probable cost, Qd. Sufficient for 4 or 5 scallops. 1618. Macaroni & la Milanaise 6 oz. fine macaroni or spaghetti. 1 lb. fresh mushrooms. 2 oz. cooked ham. 2 oz. cooked tongue. Seasoning. 2 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato puree or sauce. 1 or 2 truffles. 1 glass white wine or stock. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 3 oz. grated cheese. Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water or stock until tender, drain it well, and cut in short lengths.