COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 18 cooking for the day is over. Then the fire may be “ backed ” with advantage. To do this, allow the fire to burn very low, and while it is still red place a good lump of coal well to the front, then fill up the back part with fine coal or slack slightly mois- tened with water. Prepared in this way and left undisturbed the fire should keep in for several hours, and will warm the kitchen and keep a pot simmer- ing at the same time. The cinders from other fires can often be utilised in a kitchen range, and used in combination with some fresh coal, they make quite a good hot fire. With careful manage- ment a great deal can be done towards economising the amount of fuel used, the chief point is to thoroughly understand the working of the stove and then to use it conscientiously. TO CLEAN A KITCHEN RANGE Unless a kitchen range is kept clean, good work cannot be expected of it. There is no more effec- tive non-conductor of heat than soot, and when an oven, boiler, or any other part of the stove be- comes coated with it the heat cannot penetrate. A sooty flue is one of the commonest reasons for a stove not working properly. The Weekly Cleaning.—A large strong apron, or overall, a pair of gloves, and a cap which covers tne hair should be worn when doing this piece of work. The kitchen, too, should be prepared by removing, or covering with a dust sheet or sheets of paper, anything that is likely to be soiled with dust. Window and doors should be kept closed until all soot and dust have been removed. Re- move any kettles and saucepans from the top of the range and put the fender, plate rack, and fire irons to one side. Put down a hearth cloth or some sheets of paper and have sweep’s brush, flue rake and brush, shovel and black- lead brushes in readiness. Commence by raking out the fire, and be par- ticular to pass the rake well to the back to get all the cinders and clin- kers out of the boiler flue. Brush out all cinders and ashes, and save the former for making the fire later on. To clean the flues, commence at the top. Open the dampers and the little doors or slides at the entrance to the flue or flues. Pass the flue brush up as far as it will go, then to the sides and then downwards, working it well against the sides of the flue. The loose soot will all fall downwards to the back of the stove and must be removed later on. In a large stove there may be two or even three flues, and each one must Sweep’s Brush be done in the same way. Brush the top of the dampers and brush the flue doors or slides and put them back in place. Now remove all rings and tops from the top of the stove and brush all the soot off the top of the oven with the sweep’s brush, letting it fall either down the side of the oven or into the fireplace—■ the former is the simpler. Also pass the flue brush down the sides and back of the oven if there is an opening. Brush the under-side of all the top pieces and put them back in place. If there is a boiler or second oven at the other side of the range, the top and sides of this must be cleaned in the same way. Every part must be freed from soot, and always work from the top downwards. When the top part is finished, remove the little door or slide which will be found underneath the oven, put a good-sized shovel below it, pass the flue rake in at the hole and draw out all the soot. Repeat the same at the other side if necessary. The soot must be taken outside at once, and if there is a garden it should be kept for manuring purposes. Next dust the stove all over, putting back the loose pieces, and if the top is greasy wash it with hot water and soda. Thoroughly dust or brush out the oven. If the shelves are greasy, wash them over with hot water and soda, then whiten them with a paste of whitening and water, which will give them a nice clean appearance. To Black-lead the Stove.—Use either black-lead moistened with a little water or turpentine; the latter is better, as it dries more quickly and helps to give a gloss; or, instead of black-lead, use a specially prepared stove polish, which is simpler and cleaner, as there is no danger of its being splashed over any surrounding tiles. Apply the black-lead very lightly with the black-lead brush, commencing with the highest part of the stove and doing only a small piece at a time. Brush off with a hard brush and polish with the polisher. The Tiles.—If there are tiles at the back of the stove these must be washed with a soft cloth, soap and water; then rinsed and finished ofE with a dry cloth. If the tiles are stained, a little sapolio or Brooke’s soap rubbed onthe cloth and applied rather dry -will generally remove the marks; then rinse off and dry as before. Do not use too much water, as it will be liable to sink into the cement and ultimately loosen the tiles. The Steel.—Clean all the steel parts with fine emery paper. No. 0 is best. Rub the steel back- wards and forwards with this and always in the one direction. Cross rubbing will not polish pro- perly. Emery powder, fine bathbrick dust, or crocus powder made into a paste with paraffin or methylated spirits are all good for the cleaning of steel. These should be applied with a piece of flannel and well rubbed on to the metal. Then a little of the dry powder should be used for polishing. The emery paper is, however, cleaner and simpler to use, and unless the steel is allowed to get into bad condition it ought to be sufficient to keep it in excellent order. To Lay the Fire.—Commence by laying a few cinders at the foot of the grate with some lightly crumpled paper on the top. Next place in a few dry sticks crosswise, allowing some of the ends to rest on the bars of the grate, and then some more cinders or small pieces of coal on the top. Do not pack too tightly, leave enough space for the air to get through between the paper and sticks. The fire should be made to slope backwards, so that the smoke does not blow forwards into the kitchen. Eire lighters may be used instead of sticks ; they are coated with resin and burn up very quickly. The Hearthstone.—Sweep this first, then wash it over with warm water and whiten with soft sandstone. Now put back the fender, fire-irons, &c., and put a light to the fire if required.