HINTS ON TABLE DECORATION The floral decoration of the table is now a universal custom. Large sums of money are frequently spent on the flowers and vases for a smart dinner party, and hostesses vie with each other as to whose table will present the most novel and effective appearance. Unless means are unlimited, however, it is impossible to follow every passing fashion, and it is a good thing for most of us that a pretty floral de- coration does not depend on lavish expenditure; in fact, in many cases, the simpler the arrangement the more charming the result. Even although we are not all the happy possessors of a garden, flowers are brought into our towns in such lavish quantities nowadays, and are sold at such a moderate rate, that they are within the reach of the poorest. It is seldom that one cannot get a bunch of some sort of blooms for a few coppers, and when we consider the joy they bring, the outlay is amply compensated. The delight a few flowers can give is unlimited. There is no comparison between a table that is tastefully decorated with flowers and one on which the bare necessaries alone appear. A table without a flower or plant of some kind is a very desolate affair. The arrangement of the flowers is very much a matter of skill and taste, and the following paragraphs are only suggestive. FLOWERS AND THEIR ARRANGEMENT Choice of Flowers.—Flowers are now to be had in such variety, and at every season of the year, that their choice is very much a matter of in- dividual taste, limited only by the resources at one’s command. Flowers typical of the season are, as a rule, more pleasing than exotics and forced productions. Those with a strong scent should be avoided, especially if they have to be used in large quantities and in a heated room. There is no need to have a great display ; more taste can often be shown in the arrangement of a few blooms, than in an exuberant show. It is very important to study pleasing effects in colour; a mixture rarely looks well, and is much more difficult to arrange. It is sufficient to have one or at most two colours with green, although there may be gradations in shade of the prevailing colour. The colour of the room and the general tone of decoration should also be taken into consideration when selecting, and, unless the walls are cream-coloured, or of some very pale neutral tint, bright colours that clash should be avoided. Colour schemes are now the fashion, the flowers, candle shades, dinner ware, bonbons, &c., being of corresponding hues. Some hostesses even aim at having flowers to match the gowns they are going to wear. As regards quantity, this will depend very much on the size of the table; a large table will require some show of abundance, while small tables, now so fashionable even in private houses, lend themselves to a light form of decoration only. The Foliage.—Plenty of foliage should be used, and that of the flowers themselves whenever possible. When extra green is required, asparagus fern, springeri, maidenhair, and smilax are among the best known and most delicate, but there are many people, especially in the country, who may find these too costly for ordinary use, or too difficult to procure. To these it may be suggested that there are many trailing plants to be had for little or nothing, which can be employed in a similar way; such as the small-leaved gold or silver ivy, creeping jenny, canary creeper, peri- winkle and travellers’ joy. The tops of asparagus, too, can often take the place of the more expensive fern, while more use might be made of carrot leaves and those of the wild geranium, the latter often being found in delightful shades of a red-brown colour. Convolvulus trails and Virginia creeper are a splendid addition to our autumn decorations. When plants and ferns are used for table de- coration, they should be small and light looking, so that they do not intercept the view. The tiny dwarf Japanese trees and plants are very fashion- able for table decoration at present. Flower Vases.—Almost any kind of vase can be used, as long as it suits the style of flower, and does not clash as far as colour is concerned. Those made of silver, or of white or green crystal, are usually the most adaptable, although it is the fashion at present to have the vases corresponding in colour to the flowers used. Tail-stalked flowers, such as lilies, chrysanthemums, daffodils, &c., look best in high glasses, whilst short-stemmed flowers, such as violets, primroses, snowdrops, and forget-me-nots, &c., should be arranged in a low shape of vase or in little bowls. Roses look parti- cularly well in a bowl, or as single blooms in slender glasses. Most people pick up quaint vases at different times, especially on a holiday, when they can often be found both pretty and cheap. It is astonishing, too, what can be done in case of necessity; meat or fruit tins packed with wet silver sand can be made to do duty inside an artistic basket, and, if covered with moss, will be quite as effective as a proper lining. Small glass jars, too, placed inside smaller baskets, come in