COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 366 less than J inch in thickness, and cut it in strips about 4 inches in length by 2 inches wide. Mix some jelly or marmalade with sufficient chopped nuts to make a stiffish paste, spread this on the pastry and roll up like little Swiss rolls. Place the rolls on a baking sheet with the joins downwards, brush them over with white of egg, dredge them with sugar, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. 1566. Small Fruit Pies (Petites Tartes aux Fruits) Fruit. I Flavouring. Sugar. | Short crust. Almost any fruit that is in season may be used for these. It must be carefully prepared. Small fruits, such as currants, gooseberries, cranberries, &c., may be used whole, apples, rhubarb, and such like cut in very small pieces, and all stone fruit must have the stones removed, and if large cut in pieces. A mixture of fruits may also be used, and sugar must be added according to indivi- dual taste and the acidity of the fruit. A little flavour may also be added if wished, such as grated orange or lemon rind, powdered cinnamon, ginger, or nutmeg, or a clove. Roll out the quantity of short crust, given in Recipe 1439, to an eighth of an inch in thickness. Cut out from ten to twelve rounds with a fluted pastry cutter, and put them to one side. Roll out the pastry again, and cut out more rounds, repeating this until you have other ten or twelve rounds. Grease some small patty tins, and line them with the rounds of pastry that were last cut out, as these are never quite so good as the first cuttings from the pastry. Fill up with fruit and sugar, wet round the edge of the pastry lining the tins with cold water, and put the best rounds on the top. Press the two edges of pastry well together, and make a small hole with a skewer on the top of each tartlet. Brush them over with water or white of egg, dredge with sugar, and bake in a good moderate oven. They should be a nice brown colour, and the pastry must be well cooked. Should they become too brown before the pastry is cooked, cover with paper. When ready, sprinkle again with sugar, and remove from the tins. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost. Id. each. Short crust. 1 egg- 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. flour. 1567. Ginger Tartlets 1 oz. rice-flour. \ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 dessert-sp. ginger syrup. 2 oz. preserved ginger. Make some tartlet cases with short crust, but do not bake them (see p. 362). To Malce the Mixture.—Cream the butter in a basin, add the yolk of egg, sugar, and ginger syrup, then both kinds of flour, sieved. Mix well, and lastly add the ginger cut in small pieces, the baking powder, and white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Half fill the lined tins with this mixture, and bake them in a good oven. When ready, they should feel firm to the touch and be nicely browned. Dredge them with sugar, and remove them from the tins. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost, lOd. 1568. Grape Tartlets (Petites Tartes aux Raisins) \ lb. small green grapes. | lb. sugar. 1 gill water. 1 glass white wine. I tea-sp. arrowroot. A few drops of carmine. Some pastry. Make about a dozen tartlet cases with short crust or other pastry and bake them to a delicate brown colour. Put the sugar, wine, and water into a small saucepan, and boil them to a syrup. Thicken with the arrowroot broken with a little cold water. Pick the stalks from the grapes, and wash or wipe them carefully. Put them into the syrup, and let them simmer very slowly by the side of the fire until soft. Colour very slightly with a few drops of carmine. Empty the fruit and syrup into a basin, and when cold fill up the tartlet cases. A little whipped and flavoured cream may be piled on the top if wished. Sufficient for 12 tartlets. Probable cost, \d. each. 1569. Greengage Tartlets | lb. greengages. ] J tea-sp. cornflour. | lb. sugar. 1 gill water. I Short crust. Make from 10 to 12 tartlet cases as directed on p. 362, and bake them in the oven. Remove the rice or beans that have been used to keep them in shape, and fill them with the fruit prepared in the following manner. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and let them boil together for a few minutes. Wipe the greengages, peel them if possible, cut them in halves, and remove the stones. Then cook them in the syrup of sugar and water until tender, but not broken. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a table-spoonful of cold water, add it to the syrup and boil until it turns clear. Put a few of the greengages into each patty case, and pour some of the syrup over them. Serve cold with a little cream. Note.—Other fruits may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost, 1 d. each. 1570. Ground Rice Tartlets 1 dessert-sp. ground rice. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 egg- h tea-sp. vanilla essence. 1 table-sp. currants. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. wine or brandy. Short crust or other pastry. Line at least a dozen tartlet tins with pastry, but do not bake them. To Make the Mixture.—Mix the ground rice smoothly with the milk, and put them into a small lined saucepan with the butter. Stir over the fire until boiling, and simmer slowly for 5 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the sugar, flavouring, wine or brandy, the currants picked and cleaned, and the egg well beaten. Mix all together, cool slightly, and fill up the tartlet cases. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and the mixture nicely browned. Note.—The currants may be omitted and a little