10 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Coal Hod chairs are both suitable—or even camp-chairs with a strong carpet cover might be used, as they can be folded up during the day and put out of the way. In any case it should be remembered that our maids require something a little better than a straight- backed wooden seat when their day’s work is over. One or two good strong rugs will be necessary, or pieces of stout carpet neatly bound at the edges will serve the purpose very well. These rugs should be rolled up and put aside at night, and then not laid down again until the principal work in the kitchen is finished the following day. A fender may also be required; a simple curb is all that is necessary, although one made of steel will of course be more ornamental. In very small kitchens the fender can sometimes be dispensed with altogether, if a light screen is hooked on to the front of the fire to prevent the cinders falling out, and also as a protection from the heat. A strong poker, coal shovel and scuttle should also be provided. The best shape of scuttle is that known as a coal hod; it takes up little room, and is not so easily knocked over as the scoop shape. The flue rake and flue brush are generally supplied along with the stove. The arrangement of the kitchen window depends very much on the style of the house. As a rule a short muslin curtain across the window is all that is necessary, and all there is room for. A strong washing muslin is best, or, if preferred, a fight casement cloth, but it must be a material that will wash well and not lose its colour in the tub. This curtain must be simply made with a hem top and bottom and no lace or frills. If the window is wide, it should be made in two parts with a division in the middle, but if narrow, it will look better in one piece. The curtain should be half as wide again as the width of the window, to allow for fulness. A fight brass or wooden rod should be fitted across the window at a convenient height and the curtain fixed to that, either by means of small rings, or by slipping the rod through the upper hem of the curtain. If the kitchen is large and the window wide, Bhort side curtains, of some pretty cretonne, linen, or casement cloth might add very much to the comfortable appearance of the room. These are easily washed, and, provided they are not made long, they will not be found an inconvenience. A simple rod should be fixed across the window and the curtains attached to that by means of rings sewn on to the upper hem or heading. By this means the curtains can easily be slipped off when they require washing. Woollen draperies must never form part of the kitchen furnishing, as they hold the odours of cooking and are not healthy. A good clock must not be forgotten when fur- nishing the kitchen—-either one to hang on the wall or a good alarm clock, which can easily be carried about or taken to the maids’ bedroom at night. KITCHEN UTENSILS It is impossible to enumerate exactly the number and kind of utensils required in any house; this must be determined somewhat by the style of the house and the accommodation there is for keeping things, the number in the family, and their require- ments, and also upon the funds at disposal, so that when making a selection these points must be borne in mind. Whatever is bought should be good of its kind, and as simple in construction as possible. Well- made cookery utensils will last a lifetime, while an inferior class of goods is never cheap. A little extra outlay at the commencement in order to obtain thoroughly good articles will be well repaid in the long run. Cheap tin goods which rust and lose their shape in no time, thin enamelled ware, especially enamelled saucepans, which chip and become dangerous to use, or knives made of poor steel, which are useless for cutting purposes, are always false economy. In most circumstances, it is best to buy only what is strictly necessary to begin with, and then to add to the supply by degrees and as occasion demands. It is often nice as time goes on to get a pretty new mould or set of small moulds, a few fresh and dainty dishes for serving purposes, or some up-to-date cutter or labour-saving appliance, and such little additions generally give pleasure to the cook, if she is one who takes pride in her work. In small houses and flats where shelf accommo- dation is scarce and cupboard room often noticeable by its absence, the number of cooking utensils in- vested in must naturally be reduced to a minimum ; large and heavy-saucepans and a multifarious col- lection of moulds and dishes would only be in the way; all the more need then for judicious care in the selection, in order to obtain what is necessary and easy to work with. Then again, unless there is a kitchenmaid, or a cook who has plenty of time at her disposal, it is a mistake to buy a number of utensils which require polishing, or are difficult to clean. At the same time it is unreasonable to expect dainty cooking without proper implements, and every facility should be given to those who undertake the work. It will generally be found that the better the cook the smaller number of utensils she will require; but still, maids have different ways of working, and it is always wise to give what they ask for within reasonable limits. Choice of Saucepans.—Except in large estab- lishments where cooking has to be done in big quantities, it is a mistake to invest in a number of heavy iron saucepans. One or two will be quite sufficient, and the others might be made of some material which will be lighter to handle and easier to clean. When iron saucepans are invested in, those with a sificated fining should be selected, as they are so much more easily kept in order than an unlined pan, and they do not discolour the food cooked in them. Copper saucepans are very durable, and they are excellent as far as cooking is concerned, but they are expensive to. buy and hard to clean. They also require re-fining from time to time, because, unless they are kept intact as far as this is con- cerned, they are liable to verdigris. Steel and aluminium saucepans are to a large extent superseding copper, and their price is very much lower than it was a few years ago. They are easy to clean, light to handle, and are absolutely safe from all fear of verdigris. Nickel saucepans are also excellent, but owing