COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 576 lised apricots, and if liked a few cherries or pis- tachio nuts. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2765. Buttermilk Cake (Plain) 1 lb. flour. 1 lb. dripping. | lb. moist sugar. I lb. currants. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. Buttermilk or sour milk. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin and rub in the dripping until free from lumps. Now add the currants well cleaned, the candied peel finely shred, and the spice and soda free from lumps. Mix these dry ingredients well together, make a well in the middle, and pour in enough buttermilk to make the mixture just moist enough to drop from the spoon. Put it into a well-greased Yorkshire pudding tin and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out the cake when ready and cool on its side or on a wire tray. Cut in pieces when wanted. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 9d. 2766. Cherry Cake £ lb. flour. 3 eggs. 5 oz. castor sugar. 4 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 2 or 3 oz. glace cherries. A pinch of nutmeg. Make in the same way as German Pound Cake (Recipe 2781). Time to bake, f- hour. Probable cost, lOd. 2767. Children’s Birthday Cake | lb. flour. | lb. rice flour or corn- flour. £ lb. butter. 10 oz. sugar. 4 to 6 eggs. 6 to 8 oz. glac6 cherries. Rind of 1 lemon. 2 tea-sps.baking powder. Milk if necessary. Put the butter into a warm basin and beat it well until soft and creamy (see p. 552). Add the sugar and grated rind of 1 lemon and mix them well in. Then add the eggs one at a time along with the flour and rice flour, and beat the mixture well after the adding of each egg. The mixture should be of a consistency that will drop easily from the spoon, and if only four eggs are used a little milk will likely be necessary. When the mixture has been well beaten, add the cherries cut in small pieces and then the baking powder at the last. Pour the mixture into a cake tin that has been lined with paper, and bake in a good steady oven until well risen and thoroughly cooked. When ready, turn on to a sieve or wire stand to cool. Next day the cake should be iced with glace, fondant, or royal icing, and then decorated according to taste (see p. 593). Note.—It is not usual to put almond paste on a cake for children, but this may be added if wished. Sultanas may be used instead of cherries in the mixture, or the fruit may be omitted altogether. A ring, a button, and a threepenny piece should be wrapped in paper and slipped into the cake after baking. Time to bake, about-2 hours. Probable cost, without icing, 2s. 2768. Chocolate Layer Cake | lb. fine flour. | lb. butter. £ lb. castor sugar. 4 eggs. 1 gill milk. £ oz. cream of tartar. £ oz. carbonate of soda. Grated rind 1 lemon. Grated rind 1 orange. Chocolate icing. Beat the butter in a warm basin until very light and creamy. Mix the grated orange and lemon rind with the sugar and add them to the butter, beating them well together. Next work in the yolks of the eggs with a spoonful of flour, and handle all very lightly. Mix the cream of tartar and carbonate of soda with the remainder of the flour and add them gradually to the other ingredi- ents along with the milk. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in quickly and lightly at the last. Bake in a lined cake tin until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out of the tin and allow the cake to cool. Then cut the cake in three or four slices, spread each piece with chocolate Vienna icing (p. 590) and put the cake together again. Coat with chocolate glace icing (see p. 589), and decorate to taste with preserved fruits or finely chopped pis- tachio nuts. Time to bake, 1 to 1£ hours. Probablo cost, Is. 6d. 2 eggs. £ lb. flour. 2 oz. castor sugar. £ lb. butter. 2769. Chocolate Roll 2 oz. chocolate. 1 table-sp. water. Vanilla flavouring. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Vanilla butter icing. Grate or shred the chocolate and melt it slowly in the water without allowing it to boil. Then make the mixture according to directions given for Swiss Roll (Recipe 2831), adding the melted chocolate, and bake it in the same way. When ready, turn on to sugared paper, sprinkle more sugar on the top, trim the edges, and roll up quickly. When cold, unroll, spread with vanilla butter icing, and then re-roll the cake. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2770. Chocolate Tea Cake 4 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. grated chocolate. 1 oz. ground almonds. Grated rind of £ lemon. 4 oz. Vienna flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 dessert-sp. orange flower water. A pinch of ground cinnamon. A pinch of nutmeg. 3 small eggs. Beat the butter to a soft creamy consistency, Bieve the sugar, cinnamon, chocolate, and nutmeg on the top and mix them well in. Then add the eggs and flour by degrees, beating and mixing well between the addition of each egg. Flavour to taste, and add the baking powder at the last. Pour into a tin that has been greased and dusted out with flour and sugar mixed, and bake the cake in a moderate oven about 1 hour until well risen, and until it feels dry when tested with a skewer. Note.—When cold, this cake may be iced with chocolate glace icing, and then decorated with crystallised violets and leaves cut out of angelica