COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 560 the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, add the egg, well beaten, and enough buttermilk to form all into one lump. The mixing should be done very quickly and lightly with the hand, or with a broad-bladed knife. Turn the dough on to a slightly floured board, and knead lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Form into a round (do not roll) about 1 inch in thick- ness, and place the scone on a greased and floured baking tin. Prick all over with a fork, jmd mark in four with the back of a knife. Bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Two or three minutes before removing the scone from the oven break it in four, and brush it over with a little milk or egg and milk. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6 d. 2670. Girdle Scones 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. J tea-sp. cream of tartar. | tea-sp. salt. 1 egg. Buttermilk. Rub all the dry ingredients through a sieve into a basin. Add the butter, and rub together with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then make a well in the centre, and add the egg, well beaten, and enough buttermilk to make a light dough. Turn out on a floured board, and work very lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Flour a rolling-pin, and roll the dough into a neat round shape, rather more than half an inch in thick- ness. Cut with a sharp floured knife into six or eight pieces, and place the scones on a hot girdle. Cook over a moderate heat until brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other. Note.—These scones may also be baked on a greased tin in the oven. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2671. Hovis Meal Scones 2672. Potato Scones Boiled potatoes. Salt. Flour or barley meal. Mash some well-boiled potatoes, or put them through a sieve or vegetable presser, adding a little salt. The scones will be lighter if this can be done while the potatoes are still hot. Then knead them up quickly with a little flour or barley- meal, and roll out thinly. Cut in rounds and cook on a greased girdle, browning them on both sides. Serve the scones hot with a little butter. Note.—A little melted butter may be added to the potatoes if wished. 2673. Treacle Scones 1 lb. flour. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1| tea-sps. carbonate of soda. 1 tea-sp. cream of tartar. 2 table-sps. treacle. A pinch of salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. Buttermilk. Sieve the dry ingredients into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Heat the butter and treacle together and pour them into the centre. Then pour in gradually enough buttermilk to make a softish dough. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly. Then flour a rolling-pin, and roll into a round about \ inch in thickness. Cut across in six or eight pieces, place them on a greased and floured tin, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 6 d. 2674. Wheaten Meal Scones § lb. wheaten meal, i lb. flour. | tea-sp. cream of tartar 1 or 2 oz. butter. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. | tea-sp. salt. Some buttermilk or sour milk. Make in the same way as Elcho Scones (Re- cipe 2669). Probable cost, 6d. 1 lb. Hovis meal. 2 oz. butter. 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. £ oz. cream of tartar. J oz. carbonate of soda. | pt. sweet milk. A pinch of salt. Put the Hovis meal into a basin, and sieve the carbonate of soda, cream of tartar, sugar, and salt on the top. Rub the butter into these dry in- gredients until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Pour in the milk, and mix quickly from the centre outwards until all is gathered to- gether in one lump. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Form into a round scone, mark across in four with the back of a knife, place on a greased and floured tin, and bake in a good oven until the scone is nicely browned, and feels firm to the touch. Break it through in four places by the marks, and stand on end to cool. Note.—Instead of making large scones to cut in slices, the dough may be rolled out, and cut in small rounds with a cutter. These will take a shorter time to bake, but unless they are made up very quickly, they will not be so light. The sugar may be omitted. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2675. Hot Breakfast Cakes \ lb. flour. | tea-sp. salt. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. £ tea-sp. cream of tartar. 1 egg. | pt. milk. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Break in the egg with- out beating it, and mix into it a little of the flour, &c. Then add the milk gradually, mixing in the dry ingredients by degrees, in the same way that a batter is made. Beat until air bubbles begin to rise, and the mixture looks light. Pour the batter into well-greased patty tins, not more than half filling them, and bake in a quick oven until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, turn the cakes out of the tins, split them open, butter them, and serve hot. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost. 4d. 2676; Tea Cakes or Sally Lunns | lb. flour. | oz. German yeast. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 egg. \ pt. milk. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a warm basin, and make a well in the centre. Put the yeast into a