SERVIETTE FOLDING 645 THE COCKADE.—Fold a square serviette in four, thus obtaining a smaller square, and mark it across the middle both ways in order to find the centre, Fig. 1. Place it on the table with the double fold upper- most and the four single points at the bottom right-hand corner. Fold points A and B downwards, making them meet at the centre C, and pressing them well into position. Do the same with points D and E, but take only two folds of the serviette this time, giving it the appearance of Fig. 2. Then turn the serviette right over, and fold up remaining points F and G to the centre H on the other side, Fig. 4. Now take half the thickness of point I and fold it upwards to point J on one side, and the remainder to point J on the other side, thus making a triangle, Fig. 4. Stand this up, open out slightly, and the cockade is complete, Fig. 5. THE VASE AND POCKET.—Either a square or oblong serviette may be used for this design, but it must be slightly stiffened. Fold it in four and lay it on the table with the two double edges at the top as in Fig. 1. Now double from left to right, make a mark down the centre, and open out. Next fold each end in towards this centre mark, press the folds well down, and open out. The length of the serviette is thus marked out in four squares as indicated by the dotted lines in Fig. 1. Now turn over the two upper points by the dotted lines marked A A, giving the serviette the appearance of Fig. 2. Turn over the ends again, bringing the slanting sides B B perpendicular with the dotted fines C C, Fig. 3. Next take hold of the serviette at D, and fold upwards by dotted fine until D rests on the top of E, Fig. 4. Do the same with the other end, folding upwards by dotted fine so that F rests on the top of G, Fig. 5. Double back- wards by dotted fine and turn over. Fig. 6. Now take hold of the two points marked H and I, draw them downwards and together, and cross them slightly. Arrange the back portion so that it forms a little stand to support the serviette, and stand up as in finished design. Fig. 7. A small flower may be put in one side and the guest’s card in the other, or the serviette may be left as it is.