570 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the milk, and heat both to a lukewarm temperature. Cream the yeast with the salt, pour the warm milk and butter on to them, and strain into the middle of the flour. Add also the eggs well beaten, mix all together, and beat well until smooth and light. Cover the basin, and set it in a warm place until the dough has risen to about twice its original size. Then mix in the sugar and the currants well cleaned, shape the dough into small buns, and place them on greased and floured tins. Set the tins in a warm place until the cookies begin to swell and puff out, then bake them in a good oven. When almost ready, glaze them with a little sugar dissolved in hot milk. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2722. Scotch Oatcakes 1 tea-cupful fine oat- meal. 1 tea-sp. melted butter or bacon fat. A pinch of salt. A pinch of carbonate of soda. Hot water. Put the dry ingredients into a basin, add the melted fat and enough hot water to make a softish paste. Turn this out on a board that has been well sprinkled with oatmeal. Flatten out with the hand or roll with the rolling-pin until very thin. Rub over with more oatmeal, and cut round with a saucepan lid. Then cut into four or six pieces, and slide the cakes carefully on to a hot girdle. Cook them over a moderate fire until they begin to curl up, then toast them in front of the fire for a few minutes, or put them on a tin in the oven for a short time until dry and crisp. Note.—The scraps which are left over from cut- ting should be put back into the basin, and made up again. Time to bake, about 10 minutes. Probable cost, \d. 2723. Small Sponge Cakes J- lb. Vienna flour. I Grated lemon rind. | lb. castor sugar. | 3 large or 4 small eggs. First sieve the flour and put it in a warm place for a short time. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, putting the yolks into one large basin and the whites into another. Add the sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon to the yolks, and work them together with a wooden spoon or wire whisk until of a light creamy consistency. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add a little of them alternately with a little of the flour until all is mixed in. The mixing must be done as quickly and lightly as possible. Have ready prepared some small sponge cake moulds (see p. 551), half fill them with the mixture, sprinkle with castor sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and well risen. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2724. Sultana Buns 1 lb. dough same as for 2 eggs. Scotch Bun (p. 585). 2 oz. candied peel. J lb. sultanas. Prepare the fruit, and add it to the dough with the eggs well beaten. Knead lightly with the hands until free from cracks, and form into small round balls with a little flour. Place these on a greased and floured baking tin, and set to rise on the rack above the fire for 20 or 30 minutes. Then bake in a good moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Before removing the buns from the oven, brush them over with a little sugar and milk. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2725. Victoria Buns | lb. flour. 2 oz. ground rice. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. Grated rind | lemon. 2 oz. candied peel. 2 oz. currants. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. A little milk. Sieve the flour into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Prepare the fruit, add it with the other dry ingredients, and mix all to- gether. Make ft well in the centre, add the egg well beaten and enough milk to make a softish dough. Bake in small prepared tins (see p. 551), or in rough lumps on a greased baking tin. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2726. Vienna Queens 1£ oz. butter. 2 oz. icing sugar. 1 oz. rice flora. 1J oz. biscuit crumbs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. A little flavouring. Maraschino icing. Put the butter into a basin, warm it slightly, and then beat it with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Sieve the icing sugar on the top of it, and mix for a few minutes longer. Then add the eggs and the rice flour, and beat for 10 minutes. Mix in gradually the biscuit crumbs, cocoanut, and baking powder. Colour pink with two or three drops of carmine, flavour to taste, and put the mixture into very small prepared tins (see p. 551). These little cakes should be baked in a moderate oven, and, when ready, must be cooled upon a sieve or cake stand. Coat them on one side with maras- chino glace icing, and sprinkle with a mixture of cocoanut, chopped pistachio nut, and pink crystallised sugar, or with any other ornamenta- tion that may be preferred. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 10<f. 2727. Waffles (Gauffres) 1 lb. flora. 1 gill milk. A pinch of salt. 3 or 4 drops vanilla. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 small eggs. 1 tea-sp. brandy. Warm water. Sieve the flora and salt into a basin, make a well in the centre, and put in the yolks of eggs and milk. Mix until a smooth batter is formed, add a little warm water if necessary. Beat well, and add the butter melted, sugar, brandy, and vanilla. Then allow this to stand for some time, and, just before cooking, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. To Cook the Waffles.—Special irons are necessary for this ; they can be bought from any good iron- monger. See that they are very clean, heat them thoroughly, and brush them over on both sides with a little clarified butter. Two thirds fill them with the batter and cook