PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 405 n beaten and light, add the jam and a few drops of carmine. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with custard sauce, or jam sauce made with raspberry jam. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be cooked in small moulds, from 20 to 30 minutes will then be sufficient for the steaming. Or, the pudding may be baked instead of steamed, the mould in this case being greased, and coated with browned bread or biscuit crumbs before pouring in the mixture. Time to steam, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1786. Red Cap Puddings Make in the same way as Black Cap Puddings (Recipe 1742), using small pieces of glace cherries instead of the currants. 1787. Pudding a la Reine (Creme a la Reine) 1 pt. milk. Vanilla. £ lb. biscuit or cake crumbs. 2 eggs. £ tin apricots. Glace cherries. 1 tab.-sp. kirsch or rum. Heat the milk, flavouring it with a small piece of vanilla, or a few drops of essence. Add £ lb. of any scraps of white cake or sponge biscuits, and let them soak in the milk until quite soft. Then rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Cream the eggs and sugar together in a basin and add the puree to them, mixing well. Grease a plain round tin, line the bottom with a round of paper, grease this as well, sprinkle with sugar, and then pour in the mixture. Place the pudding in a larger tin with warm water round it, bring it almost to the Pudding a la Pveine boil over the fire, then place it in the oven and allowit to cook until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully on the centre of a flat dish. Heat the apricots in their own syrup and place them in a circle round the pudding with the hollow side uppermost, place also one half on the top of the pudding and put a cherry in the centre of each. Keep the pudding warm whilst preparing the sauce. Use about 1 tea-cupful of the apricot syrup, add to it a little kirsch or rum and 1 table-spoonful of pulp or puree from the fruit. Boil all together and strain over and round the pudding. The sauce should not be too thick. Note.—Apples, peaches, or pears may be used instead of apricots, cutting them in pieces accord- ing to their size. Time to steam, £ to | hour. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1788. Rice and Raisin Pudding £ lb. rice. 2 or 3 oz. sultanas. Wash the rice and clean and pick the sultanas. Tie them together in a scalded pudding cloth, leaving room for the rice to swell. Plunge into a saucepan of fast boiling water, slightly salted, and boil quickly, keeping the pudding well covered with water. When ready, turn out and serve on a very hot dish. Serve jam or syrup sauce separately. Time to boil, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1789. Casserole of Rice with Stewed Fruit £ lb. Carolina rice. 1 gill of water. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. Rind of £ lemon. 2 oz. sugar. Stewed cherries or prunes. Wash the rice well in several waters, and then put it into a lined saucepan with one gill of fresh cold water. Bring to the boil, and cook for two or •three minutes. Then add the milk, and the rind of half a lemon peeled off very thinly. Simmer slowly until the rice is quite soft and has absorbed all the milk. Stir occasionally, whilst it is cooking, to prevent its sticking to the pan. When ready, remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar Casserole of Rice with Stewed Fruit and the two eggs well beaten. Mix well, and remove the lemon rind. Pour the mixture into a greased border mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Then lift the pudding from the pan, and allow it to stand for a few minutes. Turn out very carefully on to a hot dish, and fill the centre with stewed cherries, prunes, or any other suitable fruit, pouring some of the syrup from the fruit round the base. Time to stew, £ hour. Time to steam, £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1790. Roly-poly Suet pastry. 3 or 4 table-sps. jam or other mixture. Make some suet crust according to directions given on p. 333, and roll it out into an oblong shape about £ inch»in thickness. Keep it as even at the edges as possible, and do not let it stick to the board. Wet round the edges of the pastry with cold water, and then spread with jam. Keep the jam about an inch from the edge all round. Roll up in the form of a bolster, sealing the edges well together. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, and dredge it with flour, or grease it well with a little melted fat. Wrap up the pudding in this, leaving room for it to swell, and tie firmly at both