499 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES thick mayonnaise sauce, to which a little liquid aspic has been added to stiffen it. Season to taste, and put on ice or in a very cold place. Take about 1 dozen large mussel shells, clean and dry them, and brush them over with a little liquid aspic to give them a glossy appearance. When ready to serve, arrange a border of chopped aspic on a dish, with a bed of finely shred lettuce or other green salad in the centre. On the top of the salad pile the mussel mixture, and arrange the mussel shells round. Put a slight sprinkling of chopped aspic on the top and garnish with one or two fine shrimps or prawns. 2287. Nasturtium Savoury Brown bread and butter Cucumber. Whipped cream. Grated Parmesan. Seasoning. Nasturtium flowers. Cut some small rounds of brown or Hovis bread and butter, and lay a thin slice of cucumber on the top of each. Then whip some double cream until thick, and add to it enough finely grated Parmesan to flavour it well. Season with cayenne and salt to taste. A little grated horse-radish may also be added. Pile this mixture on the top of the cucumber in the form of a dome, or it may be put through a forcing bag, and on the top of each put a small nasturtium flower. Serve neatly arranged on a lace-edged paper. 2288. Olives farcis aux Anchois Choose the large Spanish olives if possible, and soak the required number in cold water to remove some of the salt. Then dry them and remove the stones (see p. 494). Take as many anchovy fillets as there are olives, dip them in hot water and scrape off the skin. Then roll them up and insert one in each olive. Serve them neatly on a glass or china dish, sprinkle them with a very little good oil, and garnish with parsley or small sprigs of watercress. 2289. Olives Farcies (Other Ways) Almost any nice savoury butter may be used for stuffing olives, such as sardine, lobster, shrimp butter, &c. Prepare the olives as described above, and fill them with the butter by means of a small forcing bag or paper cornet. They may then be served as they are on a hors-d’ceuvre dish, or stood on end on small canapes with some more of the butter forced round them, and garnished with small cress or chervil. 2290. Olives en Aspic Stuffed olives. I A few radishes. Aspic jelly. | Hard-boiled egg. 2291. Olives a la Suzette Olives. Hard-boiled eggs. Aspic jelly. Sardine or bloater paste. Small biscuits and butter. Chopped parsley. Make little cups of the hard-boiled white of egg, fluting them along the top and cutting a small piece off the bottom to make them stand. Pour a tea-spoonful of liquid aspic into each and allow it to partly set. Then allow an olive for each cup. Soak them in water to remove the salt and then stone them (see p. 494). Pound half the yolks Olives k la Suzette with some bloater or other savoury paste, season to taste, and rub the mixture through a hah- sieve. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with a small rose pipe, force some into each olive, and then stand them in the setting aspic. When firm, place the cups on small biscuits that have been buttered and sprinkled with finely-chopped parsley. Force out a little more of the paste round the edges, and de- corate with tiny sprigs of parsley or chervil. 2292. Oyster Canapes (Canapes aux Huitres) Brown bread and butter. ! Sliced cucumber. Oysters. | Seasoning. Cut some neat rounds of brown bread and butter, and lay a thin slice of crisp cucumber on the top of each. Then place a fresh and bearded oyster on the top of the cucumber, and season with salt, lemon juice, and a pinch of cayenne or coralline pepper. If used as a hors-d’oeuvre, serve two or three to each person. Note.—The oyster may be surrounded with a little caviare if wished. 2293. Oysters with Caviare Serve the oysters in their deeper shell, putting about a tea-spoonful of seasoned caviare below each. Garnish with tiny sprigs of parsley, and hand cut lemon and brown bread and butter separately. Take as many small moulds as required, and just sufficiently large to hold an olive comfortably with a little jelly round. Set a very little liquid aspic at the bottom of each, then decorate with tiny rounds of red radish with a fancy-shaped piece of white of egg in the middle. Then set the garnish with a little more aspic. Stuff an equal number of olives with anchovy or any other good savoury butter, place one in each mould, and fill up with more liquid aspic. Place in a cool place to set, then turn Out on small dishes and garnish with a little cress. 2294. Oysters a la Mayonnaise Fresh oysters. Mayonnaise sauce. Aspic jelly. A few radishes. Small cress or chervil. Croutes fried bread. Choose large fresh oysters, bring them to the boil in their own liquor, then drain them and remove the beards. Place them on a wire draining tray, and coat them with mayonnaise sauce to which a little liquid aspic jelly has been added. Allow this coating to set, placing the draining tray on