STOCKS AND SOUPS 57 81, Turnip Soup (Soupe aux Navets) 1 lb. turnips. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Pepper and salt. A few parsley stalks. 1 slice of toast or a few crusts of bread. 1 qt. stock or water. \ pt. milk. Wash and peel the turnips thickly, then weigh them and cut them in very thin small pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan and add the turnip to it with the onion thinly sliced and a few parsley stalks. Put the lid on the pan, and cook these over the fire for a few minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to keep them from burning. Add the stock and crusts of bread or toast broken in small pieces and boil until the turnip is reduced to a pulp, about an hour and a half. Rub through a sieve into a basin, rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it. Add the milk and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Make thoroughly hot and serve with crohtons of fried bread, which have been tossed in grated cheese (see Recipe 1301). Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 82. Vegetable Marrow Soup (Soupe au Courge) 1 lb. vegetable marrow (weighed after peel- ing). 1 bay-leaf. 1 Spanish onion. 1 stick of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 6 white peppercorns. A few parsley stalks. 1 oz. butter or drip- ping. 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. 1£ pts. second white stock or meat boilings, ltea-sp. crushed tapioca. \ pt. milk. Salt. Wash the marrow, then peel, weigh and cut it in thin slices, but do not remove the seeds. Skin and slice the onion thinly, wash the celery and cut it in shreds, and cut the ham in small pieces. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and add to it the prepared vegetables, ham, and other seasonings. Put the lid on the pan and cook carefully over the fire for a few minutes. Shake the pan occasionally and be careful the contents do not burn. Then add the stock and simmer slowly from 1 to 1 \ hours, or until the vegetables are quite soft and pulpy. Next rub the soup through a fine wire or hair sieve into a basin, rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the milk and more seasoning if necessary. When boiling hot, sprinkle in the tapioca and cook until it is quite transparent, about 10 minutes. If the soup should be too thick, add more stock or a little water. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last would be an improvement. Serve with crofltons of fried or toasted bread, or with “ puffed ” rice crisped in the oven. Notes.—Hour may be used instead of tapioca for thickening. It should be mixed with a little milk before adding it to the soup, the soup should then be stirred until boiling and allowed to boil a few minutes. A richer soup may be made by adding i gill of cream and 1 or 2 yolks of eggs (see p. 40). In this case other thickening would not be re- quired. Time to cook, 2 hours. Probable cost, Sd. to Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 83. Watercress Soup (Potage au Cresson) 2 bunches watercress. 1 small bunch spring onions. \ pt. haricot beans. White pepper and salt. 1 qt. cold water. 1| oz. butter. I table-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 or 2 table-sp. cream. Wash the beans in cold water. Put them into a basin with 1 quart of cold water, cover with a plate, and let them soak overnight. Next day put them into a saucepan with the water in which they were soaked, and boil until quite soft, about 3 hours. Then rub through a sieve into a basin, and make up this puree to 1 quart with boiling water. Wash and pick the watercress, carefully removing the stalks, and shred it finely with a knife. Wash the onions, removing the roots and most of the green part. Slice them also thinly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put the greens into it, and stew them gently for about 10 minutes, until they are just beginning to change colour. Then pour on the haricot puree, and simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Add the cream, pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley just before serving. Time to cook, 3& hours. Probable cost, 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 84. Watercress and Potato Soup (Potage de Sante) | lb. peeled potatoes. J lb. watercress. 2 oz. butter. 1J pts. light stock. 1 gill milk. Seasoning. Cut the potatoes in thin slices and put them in a saucepan with the stock and butter. Cook them until reduced to a pulp and then rub through a sieve. Return the puree to a clean saucepan, add the cress, picked and chopped, the milk and sea- soning. Simmer 10 minutes and pour into a hot soup tureen over some fried crofitons of bread. Note.—If no stock is available, water may be used and the yolk of an egg or a little cream added at the last. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 11 pints. 85. White Vegetable Soup (Soupe aux Legumes) 2 leeks. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 or 3 sticks celery. 1 onion. 1 lettuce. 2 oz. butter or dripping. A small bunch of herbs. 11 pts. boiling water. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. flour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper, salt. A pinch of sugar. Wash and prepare the vegetables and cut them in thin shreds the same as for Julienne soup (Re- cipe 126) or in dice. Feep the lettuce apart from the other vegetables. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the prepared vegetables (except the lettuce) and the bunch of herbs and cook slowly over the fire about 10 minutes. Turn the vegetables over and over with a spoon without allowing them to take colour. Add the water and simmer gently until the vegetables are cooked without being broken. If the water boils down, more must be added. Mix the flour smoothly with the milk, pour it into the hot soup and stir until boiling. Remove the herbs and add the lettuce, well drained, and the seasoning. Simmer