^ 475 FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES or screw-top lid, and the cost of these generally amounts to 3d. or id. each. The bottles will do again year after year, only the caps and rings will require renewal each season. The Fowler-Lee Bottles The best fruits for bottling are gooseberries, cherries, raspberries, apricots, plums, damsons, blackberries, tomatoes, apples, and pears. Straw- berries can also be successfully bottled, but they require more care and trouble than other fruits, because they are so much softer. 2168. To Bottle Gooseberries. General Directions for Bottling Gooseberries are the easiest of all fruits to bottle, and as a rule give the most satisfactory results. The following directions should be carefully fol- lowed. Have the bottles ready, making sure that they are perfectly clean and quite dry. The goose- berries should be picked when green and hard, and before they get too large. For bottling they ought always to be picked in the same condition as that in which they are used for green gooseberry tart. Before putting the fruit into the bottles it should be topped and tailed, and, to ensure a good appearance when finished, it is always best to grade the fruit and only put berries in which are the same size, rejecting any that are too large and not sound, or are disfigured in any way. These can always be used up in the preserving pan. Pack the fruit closely into the jars, without bruising, to within an inch of the top, and fill up with cold water or syrup to the very top of the bottle. Do not put on the cap at once, as the water often sinks when it has worked its way down among the fruit. If this happens the bottles should be filled up again, as the fruit ought always to be well covered. Gapping the Bottles.—The bottles are now ready for capping, and much of the success depends upon the care taken in capping. The india-rubber rings are next put on. Have ready a basin of hot water, and before laying the ring on the mouth of the bottle dip it into hot water for a second or two. This makes the rubber more flexible and more likely to lie flat, which i3 an important point. When the ring is in its place put on the metal cap. Care must be taken to place it on the bottle perfectly straight. The spring clip is then put on, and the bottle is ready to go into the steriliser. Imperfect capping is often due to the ring or the cap being carelessly put on. This allows the air to get in, and prevents the bottle becoming hermetically sealed, as it should be. Sterilising the Fruit.—The bottles are now placed in the steriliser. They should stand just clear of each other. A sufficient quantity of cold water is put in to cover the bottle three parts of the way up. The lid is then put on and the thermometer screwed into its socket. The temperature gener- ally registered at this stage is about 60°. It is very gradually allowed to rise until it reaches 155°. An increase of two degrees a minute is enough. If the temperature is allowed to go up with a rush the skin of the fruit in the bottles will be cracked. It nearly always takes an hour, if not more, before the required temperature is reached. The bottles should be kept at 155° for 45 minutes. If gas or oil is used for heating, this is easily done by regu- lating the flame. At the end of 45 minutes the bottles are taken out and put to cool. If a screw- topped bottle is used, the loose rim is now tightly screwed down. Where the spring clip is used, it is left on till the bottles are quite cold. When this stage has been reached (probably the next day), each bottle should be examined to see if the cap is perfectly tight; if so it has become hermetically sealed, and will only move by pressure from without, such as the insertion of a knife between cap and rubber ring to raise it. This will be a proof of the fruit keeping. If any are found imperfectly capped they should be re-sterilised ; but a careful examina- tion should be made of the cap to see if it fits properly or not, as a certain percentage of those sent out are sure to be faulty. The foregoing directions can be applied, broadly speaking, to all soft fruits enumerated above. The temperature must also depend upon the quality of the fruit. If young and tender 155°-160° is a usual standard. The time occupied in sterilising varies with the fruit; larger fruit, such as plums, require 25 minutes, pears 1 hour, apricots 45 minutes, peaches 45 minutes, tomatoes 30 minutes, rhubarb 20 minutes. 2169. Syrup for Bottled Fruits Sometimes it is desirable to bottle the fruit in syrup instead of water only. The following is a good recipe: To every quart of water allow | lb. of the best cane sugar. Bring to the boil and continue to boil at 212° for \ hour, taking care to skim when necessary. Pour the syrup into a vessel, and keep till quite cold before pouring over the fruits. 2170. Cherries The Kentish cherry is excellent for preserving in this way. Pick the cherries off their stalks, and pack in the bottles. The fruit should be firm but nearly ripe. When packing, shake the bottle gently up and down, so that the fruit may fit in closely. If the fruit is pricked at one end with a needle it prevents bursting. Fill up the bottles with syrup or water. Proceed as indicated in the foregoing recipe, and sterilise at 150°. Another method is to split the cherries in half with a sharp knife, take out the stones, crack some, and return the kernels.