31 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD meat safe can occasionally be fixed to tbe outside ledge of the kitchen window. If it is out of doors the top should be protected from rain by a covering of wood or galvanised iron,and it should be scrubbed out every week and just as carefully as an inside cupboard. Failing a meat safe, small cane and muslin cages should be bought in which meat can be hung up in any cool and well-ventilated place. They are very inexpensive to buy, or they can even be simply constructed at home by making a bag of muslin drawn in at top and bottom. Place a plate at the foot and keep out the sides with hoops of cane lightly tacked in position. CARE OF VARIOUS KINDS OF FOOD Meat, Game, Poultry, &e. Butcher’s Meat.—All uncooked meat should be hung. If there is a cut side, keep this uppermost to prevent the juice running out. Examine the meat carefully each day and wipe it with a cloth to keep it dry. It may also be dusted over with a little flour. The marrow should be removed from the bone of such joints as a sirloin, ribs of beef or loin of mutton, before the meat is hung up. If there is any sign of taint, cut ofl the infected part and burn it, then wash the meat with a weak solution of Condy’s fluid and water, vinegar and water, or borax and water. If there is a danger of flies attacking the meat, pepper it well and hang it up in muslin ; or if there is any fear of the meat not keeping it should be partially cooked. Cooked meat should be lifted out of the gravy with which it has been served and put on a dry plate covered over with a meat screen. Frozen meat should be well thawed before cook- ing ; it should be taken from the larder and kept .in a warm kitchen for an hour or two. Rabbits.—A rabbit should be used fresh and must be paunched at once. If it has to be kept a day or two, do not remove the skin until it is just about to be cooked, as it prevents the flesh from becom- ing dry. Tie two of the feet together and hang it up on a hook in the larder. Hares.—Contrary to the rabbit, a hare should be well hung before it is cooked, and it must be hung up without being paunched. About a week’s hanging will be required if the hare is fresh and the weather dry. It should be hung up head down- wards, and a'little tin cup may be tied on to the mouth to catch any blood. Poultry.—When poultry is bought quite fresh it may be hung for a few days. It should be plucked, but not drawn, until about to be used. Tie the two feet together and hang the bird up on a hook. Poultry must never be overhung ; when it shows the least sign of turning green it is unfit for food. Game.1—As regards the time for keeping game, it is almost impossible to lay down any definite rules. Much depends on individual taste, the state of the weather, the condition of the birds, and the accommodation there is for storing them. As a rule those who have game often like it less high than those who can partake of it but rarely, but most game birds should be hung a certain length of time or they will taste little diflerent from ordinary poultry. A young bird will not require so long hanging as an old one, and one that is badly shot or bruised in any way will not keep well. The condition of the weather will affect game very much, dry, cold weather being much better for keeping purposes than close or damp days. In fact, on what are called muggy days, game must be very closely watched, as it may ‘ go bad ” very quickly. Game should be hung unplucked and undrawn. The place in which it is kept should be cool and dry, and there should be a current of air if possible. Tie a piece of string tightly round the neck of the bird to exclude the air and hang it up. A little charcoal may be put inside the vent to help to preserve it. This may be made by putting a piece of wood in the oven and allowing it to remain until it is quite black. If several birds are being hung up, do not let them touch each other. If there is any danger of flies, dredge the birds with pepper or put them in muslin bags. For all practical purposes game is ready for cook- ing when the tail feathers will come away easily when pulled, only it must be remembered that if it is required to taste high when cooked, it should smell, almost disagreeably so, beforehand. If there should be the least taint, a bird can often be saved by washing it in strongly salted water with a little vinegar in it, and afterwards rinsing it in fresh water. Birds that should not Hang Long.—Wild ducks and other water-fowl should be used fresh. Their flesh is of a very oily nature and soon turns sour. In cold, dry weather they can be kept for a few days. Small birds, too, such as snipe and wood- cock, that are cooked without being drawn, should not be kept long. Venison.—This should always be well hung before it is cooked. In cool, dry weather it may hang for a fortnight or even longer.. Before hanging it should be well wiped with a dry cloth and sprinkled with black pepper, and if liked, ginger as well. Then during the hanging it must be well watched and dried every day. Its freshness can be tested by running a knife or skewer into the bone at the haunch ; if when withdrawn it smells well and is not sticky, this is a sure sign of good condition.