... 504 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the grill for a minute or two to brown the surface, then sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and serve very hot. 2324. Brain Fritters (Beignets de Cervelles) cooked melted butter. Salt. Pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 table-sps brains. 1 table-sp. fine flour. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. salad oil or Mash the brains with a fork until soft and light. Make a smooth batter with the egg and flour, beating it well, add the brains, oil, and seasoning, and beat all together for a few minutes. Drop small pieces of this mixture in a saucepan of boil- ing fat, and fry them to a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. 2325. Caviar sur Crofites Caviare. Rounds of fried bread. Lemon juice. Red chilli. Cut some small round croutons of bread, hollow out the centres slightly, and fry them in hot fat until brown. Mix some caviare with a little lemon juice and cayenne, and warm it in the oven or over hot water. Fill up the bread croutons with the caviare, and garnisli with fine strips of red chilli or with strips of browned almonds. Note.—Be careful to use a silver spoon or fork to mix the caviare. 2326. Aiguilles au Parmesan 1 gill water. 2 oz. flour. i oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. 2 eggs. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Put the water, butter, and seasoning into a sauce- pan and bring them to the boil. Sieve the flour, and add it, beating well until perfectly smooth. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and add the eggs, one at a time, and the Parmesan cheese. Mix thoroughly, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool; then rub it through a small colander into hot fat, and fry until brown and crisp. Drain well, and serve very hot, sprinkled with cheese. 2327. Allumettes de Fromage Puff pastry. Parmesan cheese. Beaten egg. Take some puff pastry that has only had four rolls (see Recipe 1447), and give it two more rolls, sprinkling it well with finely grated Parmesan and rolling the cheese into it. Then roll it out into a strip 4 or 5 inches in width, and cut this strip across into finger-shaped pieces. Place these on a wetted baking tin, brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle with more cheese, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. 2328. Cheese d’Artois (Fromage d’Artois) 2 yolks of egg. 1 white of egg. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. Seasoning. Puff pastry. Put the cheese into a basin and add to it the yolk of egg and the butter melted. Season with cayenne, salt, and a little made mustard, and then stir in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Roll out some puff pastry rather thinly, and spread the cheese mixture over half of it. Moisten round the edges with beaten egg and fold over the other half. Cut in fingers or fancy-shaped pieces, brush over with yolk of egg, sprinkle with grated Parmesan, and bake in a good oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Serve hot with a lace-edged paper under them. 2329. Cheese Bouchees (Bouchdes au Fromage) 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 2 table-sps. water. Seasoning. 3 table-sps. grated Par- Bouchee cases, mesan. Make and bake some very small bouchee or patty cases. Then put the butter, flour, and water into a saucepan and stir them over the fire until smooth, thick, and thoroughly cooked. Re- move the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg, cream, cheese, and seasoning. Re- heat, but do not boil. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture, piling it rather high, put on the little lids and re-heat in the oven a few minutes. Note.—Batter cases (Recipe 2251) may be used instead of pastry cases. 2330 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. Cayenne. Salt. A little cold water. 1 yolk of egg. Cheese Biscuits, 1 (Biscuits au Fromage) A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 whites of eggs. A little grated cheese. Coralline pepper. Put the flour and grated Parmesan into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Season with cayenne pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and bind all together with the yolk of an egg beaten up with a little cold water. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, cut it in finger-shaped strips, and bake in a moderate oven. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add to them a little grated cheese. Spread this over the biscuits, sprinkle them with coralline pepper, and return them to the oven to dry and become lightly browned. Serve the biscuits hot on a lace-edged paper. 2331. Cheese Biscuits, 2 (Biscuits au Fromage) Plain biscuits. I Some soft cheese. Butter. I Seasoning. Take any dry unsweetened biscuits, such as captain, Bath oh vers, or lunch biscuits, and butter them lightly on both sides. Then take some soft cheese, such as St. Ivel, and work into it a little made mustard and a few drops of tarragon vinegar or Worcester sauce. Spread this thickly on one side of the biscuits, sprinkle them with a little coralline pepper, and then brown or toast them in a quick oven. Serve the biscuits at once. 2332. 4 table-sps. cheese. 2 table-sps. crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Make some Cheese Croustades (Petites Croustades au Fromage) grated Seasoning. 1 egg. 2 table-sps. cream or bread- milk. 6 or 7 small croustades of bread. small croustades, not more than 2 inches in diameter (see Recipe 2246), and fry them