COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 92 John Dory (Doret or Dorade) This is such an unsightly fish that it is seldom seen at the fishmonger’s in its natural form. It is of a golden yellowish colour, with an ugly head. It is, however, very delicate in flavour, and the John Dory flesh is firm and white, somewhat resembling the meat of the lobster. It is one of the best fish for boiling, and the smaller ones are very good baked. When cold the flesh of this fish is very good served in salad or with mayonnaise. It may also be cut into fillets and prepared according to any of the directions given for fillets of fish. Mackerel (Maquereau) One of the prettiest and most elegant fish we have. It comes to our shores in large quantities during the summer months. Mackerel is not good except when perfectly fresh and in season. It spoils more quickly than any other fish, beginning to ferment within a short time after its being caught, and becoming in some cases absolutely poisonous. Medium-sized mackerel are the best. They should be white and pearly looking underneath and the markings ought to be very bright and distinct. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked in any of the ways directed for herring. 227. Mackerel, To Bake Take as many mackerel as required, clean and wash them, cutting off the heads and fins. Wipe them dry, score the skin across several times, and season with pepper and salt equally distributed. Well grease a baking tin or dish, lay the mackerel on it, squeeze over a little lemon juice, place a slice of fat bacon or a small piece of dripping on the top of each, and bake in a moderate oven, basting once or twice with the fat. When the fish are ready, remove them carefully to a hot dish, and decorate them with parsley or fennel. Serve mustard, fennel, or goosebery sauce separately. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. 226. Fillets of Dory & l’lndienne 1J lbs. John Dory. \ pt. curry sauce. I oz. butter. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Cut the fish in neat fillets free from skin and bone, and lay it in a greased baking dish. Season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and lay the butter in small pieces on the top. Cook the fish in a good oven from 10 to 12 minutes, then pour over the curry sauce and cook from 10 to 15 minutes longer. When ready, arrange the pieces of fish neatly on a hot dish, add the cream to the sauce, bring to the boil, and then strain over the fish. Garnish with neat slices of lemon and sections of hard-boiled egg if wished. Boiled rice may be served separately. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Kippers and Bloaters See under Breakfast Dishes, p. 380. Ling (Lingue) A very useful fish, not unlike the cod in appear- ance, but more slender in form. It is generally very inexpensive. The flesh is firm and white, but rather lacking in flavour : it requires a good sauce to make it palatable. It may be cooked according to any of the directions given for cooking cod, and is very good in a fish pie and other made-up fish dishes. The flesh of ling is often salted, it is then diffi- cult to distinguish from salted cod. The tongues and .sounds are considered very fine ; they are generally pickled and sold separately. The roe is also very good, and the liver supplies us with a certain amount of oil. 228. Mackerel, To Boil 3 mackerel. 1 onion. 1 carrot. A bunch of herbs. Cold water. \ tea-cupful vinegar. 12 white peppercorns. 1 bay-leaf. Salt. Clean and wash the mackerel, cutting oS the heads and fins. Prepare and slice thinly the carrot and onion, put them into a small fish kettle with the herbs and spices, and lay the fish on the top. Pour over sufficient cold water to just cover them, and add the vinegar and salt. Bring this quickly to the boil, and simmer slowly until the mackerel are ready. Then remove and drain the fish, slide them on to a hot dish with a dish paper on it, and garnish with parsley or fennel. Serve parsley, fennel, or other suitable sauce separately. Note.—Contrary to the general rule for boiling fish (see p. 78), mackerel is put on to cook in cold water. This is on account of the skin being so tender. Boiling water would break it at once and disfigure the fish. Time to boil, 15 to 20 minutes. 229. Mackerel, To Broil or Grill (Maquereaux Grilles) 2 mackerel. Marinade. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 shallot finely chopped. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Pepper and salt. Clean the fish, cutting off the heads and fins. Then split them in two and remove the bones. Put the ingredients for the marinade on a plate, and soak the pieces of mackerel in this for 1 hour, turning them occasionally. Place them on a well- greased broiler, cook about 10 minutes on the split side, and then 3 to 4 minutes on the skin side. See Broiling, p. 79. When the fish is cooked