241 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES the onion finely chopped, and cook it for a few minutes until lightly coloured. Then put in the kidney, season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and stir briskly over the fire until the pieces are all equally coloured. Add the stock and sherry, or other light wine, and stir until boiling. Cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, and add the lemon juice and parsley at the last. Serve the stew neatly in a hot dish and garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—A few mushrooms, sliced and cooked with the kidney, will be an improvement. Time to cook, about J hour in all. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 971. Calf’s Liver, Broiled (Foie de Veau, Grill6) Wash the liver and allow it to lie in salt and water for | hour. Then dry it well and cut it in thin slices. Brush the pieces over with melted butter or salad oil, season with pepper and salt, and broil 4 or 5 minutes on each side (see Broiling, p. 208). Serve very hot with maitre d’hdtel butter, or with a few slices of broiled or fried bacon. Potato chips or ribbons may be served separately. 972. Calf’s Liver Saute (Foie de Veau Saut6) 1 lb. calf’s liver. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 gill stock or gravy. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill tinned mush- rooms. 1 tea-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 table-sp. sherry. Pepper. Salt. Wash the liver well in several waters, drain and dry it in a cloth. Then cut in slices J inch in thick- ness, and coat these very lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a frying or saute pan. When quite hot, put in the fiver, and fry it gently until well browned and thoroughly cooked. Then lift the pieces on to a plate and pour away all fat from the pan. Pour in the stock or gravy, add the mush- rooms cut in halves, the wine and seasonings, and stir for a few minutes. Then return the fiver and cook it for 5 minutes in the sauce. Dish neatly with the,gravy poured over and round, and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. Note.—The mushrooms may be omitted, and a little finely chopped onion added if liked. Time to cook, J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 973. Calf’s Liver a la Hongroise (Foie de Veau a la Hongroise) | lb. calf’s liver. A little flour. 2 oz. butter. Salt. Paprika pepper. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 gill cream. Potato balls. Wash the fiver and let it fie in cold water for £ hour. Then cut it in slices rather less than a \ inch in thickness, dry the pieces well in a cloth, season with salt and paprika, and coat them lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a frying pan; when hot, put in the fiver and fry it carefully until brown on both sides. Then lift out the pieces, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, one leaning against the other, and keep them hot. Add the chopped onion to the butter in the pan, and cook it about 5 minutes. Moisten with the cream, season to taste, cook a minute or two longer, and pour this sauce over the fiver. Garnish with small potato balls or with plainly boiled potatoes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 974. 1 lb. calf’s fiver. Bacon fat. A little flour. Calf’s Liver, Roasted Seasoning. \ pt. stock. 4 or 5 small tomatoes. Wash the liver, let it lie in cold salted water for | hour, and then dry it well. Now wrap the liver in a piece of paper that has been dipped in bacon fat, and place it in a roasting tin with more bacon fat. Roast in a moderate oven, basting frequently. A short time before it is ready remove the paper, dredge the fiver with flour, season with pepper and salt, and return it to the oven to brown and finish cooking. When the fiver is ready, lift it on to a hot dish, pour away the fat from the tin, add the stock, and make a gravy. Strain this round the fiver and garnish with baked tomatoes. Serve a pur6e of potatoes or mashed potatoes separately. Time to roast, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 975. Calf’s Liver, Larded 1J lbs. calf’s fiver. I 1 dessert-sp. browned Larding bacon. flour. 1 pt. brown stock. | Seasoning. 1 glass claret Prepare the fiver as in last recipe, and then lard the bestside of it rathertbickly (see Larding, p.205). Now tie or skewer it into a neat shape, place it in a well-greased roasting tin, and pour the stock boiling hot over it. Cover the tin and cook the fiver in the oven, basting it occasionally. A short time before it is ready, remove the cover and let the lardoons become nicely browned. Then lift the fiver on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Mix the browned flour .smoothly with the claret, add them to the liquid left in the baking tin, and stir over the fire until boiling. Season to taste and strain round the fiver. Small rolls of bacon or baked tomatoes may be used as a garnish. Note.—A gill of tomato juice may be used instead of the claret. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 976. Poor Man’s Goose 1 lb. calf’s or sheep’s fiver. \ lb. bacon. 6 or 8 potatoes. 1 cupful stock or water. 1 table-sp. flour. 2 large onions. 2 tea-sps. powdered sage Pepper and salt. A little dripping. Wash the fiver, dry it, cut it in slices about J inch in thickness, and dip the pieces in flour. Prepare the onions and potatoes, and cut them both in thin slices. Cut the bacon in small pieces and powder the sage. Then grease a pie-dish and put in the diflerent ingredients in layers, seasoning with pepper, sale, and sage. Make the last layer a good covering of potatoes. Pour in the stock or water, and put some dripping in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until thoroughly cooked. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d.