413 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS Poud the mixture into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve with custard or ginger sauce. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1828. Baked Chocolate Pudding 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 table-sps. grated chocolate. A pinch of salt. \ pt. milk. 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. 2 eggs. Some scraps of pastry, i doz. sweet almonds. Take a pie dish, about a 1^-pint size, and line the sides and border with pastry as directed on p. 409. Then prepare the mixture. Put the bread-crumbs and half the sugar into a basin with a pinch of salt and a few drops of vanilla. Grate or shred the chocolate and dissolve it in a small saucepan with tho milk. When quite smooth, pour it over the bread-crumbs, &c., and allow the mixture to soak a few minutes. Then add the yolks of eggs, pour the mixture into the prepared pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is browned and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add to them the remainder of the sugar finely sifted, and pile this meringue on the top of the chocolate mixture. Blanch and split the almonds, stick them here and there into the beaten white, and return the pudding to a very moderate oven until the meringue is dry and lightly browned. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1829. Baked Cocoanut Pudding Make the same mixture as for Steamed Cocoanut Pudding (Recipe 1762), but keep back the whites of eggs. Pour the mixture into a pie dish that has been lined and decorated with pastry, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, fold into them 1 or 2 spoonfuls of castor sugar, pile this meringue on the top of the pudding, decorate with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, and return to a cool oven until a pretty light brown colour. 1830. Coffee Meringue Pudding 1 oz. butter. | oz. cornflour. 3 gills coffee and milk. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. apricot jam. Sugar. Cut the sponge cakes in slices and lay them at the bottom of a greased pie dish with the apricot jam. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, mix in the cornflour, and then pour on the milk and coffee. Stir until boiling, and add sugar to taste. Now remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolks of the two eggs. Pour this sauce over the sponge cakes, and let all stand a few minutes. Meanwhile beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and add sifted sugar to them to make a meringue. Pile this on the top of the pudding, and bake in rather a cool oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. Notes.—The coffee used must be strong, in order to give a good flavour to the pudding. Scraps of plain white cake or macaroons may be used instead of the sponge cake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1831. College Puddings Jib. bread-crumbs. lb. flour. 3 oz. suet. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 oz. brown sugar. \ tea-sp. mixed spice. | tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. 1 gill hot milk. 3 table-sps. currants. Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin and make a well in the centre. Add the egg and the hot milk gradually, and beat all together for a few minutes. Half fill small greased moulds with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with custard, orange, or German sauce. Time to bake, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1832. Empress Pudding (Pouding a 1’Imperatrice) I lb Carolina rice. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Grated rind of £ lemon. 2 or 3 table-sps. of jam. A little pastry. Wash the rice in several waters, and put it into a saucepan with fresh cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and add the milk and butter. Simmer slowly until the rice is quite tender and has absorbed the milk. Then add the grated lemon rind, sugar, and eggs well beaten. Mix well. Line a pie dish with pastry according to directions given on p. 409. Put the jam at the bottom of the dish, and pour the rice- mixture on the top. Bake in a moderate oven, sprinkle with sugar, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1833. French Pancakes or Saucer Puddings (Crepes a la Frangaise) 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. flour. \ pt. milk. A little flavouring. Some jam. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft creamy consistency. Beat the eggs until frothy, and stir them in with the sugar and salt. Mix "well. Add half the flour and half the milk, then the other half, beating well between each. Then flavour to taste with a little grated lemon or orange rind, or a few drops of essence of vanilla. Have ready four or five old saucers or some large patty tins well greased, half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Turn one of these puddings out on a hot dish, cover it with jam heated until almost liquid, lay another pudding on the top, then more jam, and so on until all are used. Sift sugar over the top, and serve at once. Or, if the pancakes are suffi- ciently thin, they may be turned out on a sheet of