COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 608 add the cream of tartar or lemon juice, and con- tinue to boil without stirring until the toffee will harden when tested in cold water. It will require from 10 to 15 minutes’ boiling. When ready, pour into an oiled tin, and set aside to cool. When set, break in pieces, and store in an air-tight tin box. 2924. Treacle Toffee 1 lb. brown cane sugar. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar or 1 lb. treacle. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. 1 oz. butter. Use black treacle, not golden syrup. Put it into a saucepan with the sugar and butter, and stand by the side of the fire until melted. Then stir until boiling, and stir until it breaks crisp when tested in cold water. Flavour with the vinegar or vanilla, pour out in an oiled tin, and break in pieces when cold. of the chocolate, and 3 oz. of butter instead of a J lb. The coffee and butter must not be added until the syrup has boiled to 245°, and after that the mixture must not be stirred. 2928. Vanilla Caramels £ lb. granulated sugar, | lb. brown sugar. 4 to 6 oz.-butter. 1 gill milk. 1 gill cream. 2 table-sps. glucose. I tea-sp. vanilla. Put the two sugars, milk, cream, and glucose into a saucepan and dissolve them carefully over the fire, stirring all the time. Then add the butter broken in pieces, and stir again over the fire until the “ hard ball ” stage is reached, or about 250° F. Pour out on a greased tin or between candy bars on a greased slab. When set, mark in squares or oblong-shaped pieces, and, when cold, break them apart and wrap in wax paper. 2925. Chocolate Caramels, 1 1 lb. loaf sugar. £ lb. butter. 1 lb. unsweetened choco- late. I lb. syrup. 1 gill thin cream. Vanilla essence. Grate or shred the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan with all the other ingredients. Melt slowly over the fire, and then boil to the “ crack,” or to 300° F., stirring almost constantly. When ready, pour out, and, when set, mark in squares. 2926. Chocolate Caramels, 2 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1 gill water or milk. 1 gill cream. | lb. butter. § lb. chocolate. 6 oz. glucose. Vanilla. Put the sugar, milk, and glucose into a saucepan, melt slowly and then boil to 245° F. Cut the chocolate into small pieces, and melt it in another saucepan without any water. This is best done in an earthenware saucepan in the oven, or by placing the saucepan inside another containing hot water. Add the butter to the chocolate, and, when quite melted, add these to the sugar, &c., and boil all together to 245° or 250°. The mixture must not be stirred after the chocolate is added, but must be boiled very carefully to prevent its burning. Flavour with vanilla, and pour out in a shallow oiled tin. Mark in squares with the back of a 2929. Walnut Molasses 1 lb. brown sugar. 1 gill water. A pinch cream of tartar. 2 oz. shelled and chopped walnuts. 1 oz. butter. Toast the walnuts in the oven for a few minutes, and then chop them somewhat roughly. Put the water, sugar, and cream of tartar into a lined sauce- pan, and boil with the thermometer to 280° F., adding the butter just before it reaches this point. Pour out on a marble slab into a long shape, sprinkle with the walnuts, and fold over with a wooden spoon or spatula. When slightly cool, roll with the hands, and pull out until about the thickness of a thin walking-stick. Then cut quickly in pieces with a pair of strong scissors, allow the pieces to cool, and twist them into small pieces of waxed paper. If this sweetmeat is left exposed to the air, especially in damp weather, it becomes sticky. Note.—Chopped hazel nuts may be used instead of walnuts. 2930. White 1J ids. granulated sugar. J pt. water. 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. syrup. Walnut Candy \ lb. shelled walnuts. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. Put the water, syrup, and sugar into a saucepan, let them dissolve slowly over the fire, then boil to 240° Fahr. Meanwhile have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and put them into a basin; pour the hot syrup slowly on to them, beating with a small wire whisk, and continue to beat until the candy begins to thicken. Add the nuts, roughly chopped, and the flavouring; pour out on a greased tin, or between candy bars on a greased slab. When cold, cut in small neat pieces. Note.—Other nuts may be used in the same way, and the flavouring may be altered. knife or with a caramel cutter, and, when nearly cold, cut the mixture right through. Wrap the caramels in wax paper. 2927. Coffee Caramels Make in the same way as chocolate caramels, using sufficient essence of coffee to flavour instead PART V SWEETS WITH MARZIPAN MARZIPAN Marzipan, literally almond bread, is a paste made of almonds and sugar. It is of German origin.