BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 561 smaller basin with the sugar, and mix them to- gether until smooth and creamy. Melt the butter in a-small saucepan, and add the milk. When lukewarm, pour on to the yeast, and mix well. Strain this into the centre of the flour, and add the egg well beaten. Mix from the centre outwards, and then beat with the hands for a few minutes. Cover the basin with a cloth, and allow the dough to rise in a warm place from § to 1 hour. Turn out the dough on to a slightly floured board, and knead lightly with the hands until smooth and free from cracks. Form into two or three round cakes, and place them on a greased and floured tin. Set the cakes again to rise on the rack above the fire for 10 or 15 minutes, until they look light and puffy. Then bake them in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. A few minutes before removing the cakes from the oven, brush them over with sugar and milk to give them a gloss. These cakes should be split and buttered hot. Note.—A few currants or some very finely chopped candied peel may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 2677. Yeast Muffins and Crumpets i lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. | oz. German yeast. 1 tea-sp. sugar. | pt. sweet milk. A pinch of salt Sieve the flour and salt into a basin. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and let it become just lukewarm over the fire. Put the yeast into a small basin with the sugar, and mix them together with a spoon until of a creamy con- sistency. Add the warm milk and butter to the yeast and sugar, mix well together, then strain into the centre of the flour. Add also the egg well beaten, and mix together for a few minutes. Cover the basin with a clean cloth, and set it in a warm place for 1£ hours to allow the mixture to rise. (On a chair by the side of the fire, or on the rack will do, provided the placo is not so hot that it causes the mixture to cook on the sides of the basin.) Crumpets.—Heat a girdle, and grease it with butter ; drop on to it spoonfuls of the above mix- ture, and brown first on one side and then on the other. Serve hot, buttered. mixture, cook and brown on one side, then remove the rings, turn the muffins, and cook and brown them on the other side. These are nice split, buttered, and served hot. Time to cook—Crumpets, about 5 minutes; muffins, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2678. Yorkshire Tea Cakes | lb. flour. 1| gills warm milk. 1 egg. | oz. German yeast. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk to it, and make it just lukewarm. Cream the yeast with a little salt, pour the warm milk and butter on to it, and then strain into the middle of the flour. Add also the egg well beaten, and beat well together for a few minutes. Grease and flour one or two shallow cake tins, put the mixture into them, and set in a. warm place to rise, about | hour. Then bake in a good oven. When ready, brush them over with a syrup of sugar and water, dredge them with castor sugar, and return the cakes to the oven for a minute or two to dry. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, 6d. PART II BUNS AND SMALL CAKES 2679. Almond Rock Cakes 2 or 3 drops of essence of almonds. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Girdle and Muffin Ring Muffins.—Grease some rings, and place them on a hot greased girdle ; half fill them with the above £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. sweet almonds. A pinch of salt. First blanch and chop the almonds finely, and put them to dry, but not brown, on a tin in the oven. Then sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter untU free from lumps. Add the prepared almonds, and make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients. Add the egg well beaten, the flavouring, and enough sweet milk to bind all together. The mixture must be kept stiS enough for the spoon to stand upright in it. Have ready a baking tin, greased and sprinkled with flour, and arrange the mixture on it in small heaps (one teaspoonful of the mixture in each) and at some little distance apart. Sprinkle the cakes with sugar, or with ground almonds and sugar mixed, and bake in a quick oven until brown and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2680. Almond Slices | lb. butter. 7 oz. flour. J lb. castor sugar. J tea-sp. baking powder. £ lb. sweet almonds. 3 eggs. A few drops of essence of almonds. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft creamy consistency. If the butter is very hard, the basin may be warmed slightly. Add the sugar, and mix the two well together. Dry and sieve the flour, and add it by degrees with the eggs. Then beat for 10 minutes 2 N