BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 571 over a sharp clear fire for 2 or 3 minutes on each side until the waffles are brown and crisp. Then remove them from the irons and servo hot, sprinkled with sugar, or maple sugar may be served sepa- rately. Note.—Cream may be used instead of milk. 2728. Walnut Buns 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. rice flour. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. shelled walnuts. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. cream. | tea-sp. baking powder. Some red currant jelly. Beat the butter until of a creamy consistency, add the sugar, and mix well. Toast the walnuts for a few minutes in a moderate oven, then pound or chop them rather finely. Reserve one tea-spoon- ful of these, and add the rest to the creamed butter and sugar with 1 egg and the rice flour. Mix well for a few minutes, then add the other egg, flour, cream, nutmeg, and baking powder Beat well for a few minutes longer, and half fill small prepared tins (see p. 551). Bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out and cool slightly. Then coat the top of the buns with red currant jelly and sprinkle them with the remainder of the walnuts. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, lOd. PART III BISCUITS 2729. Almond Biscuits 1 lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1J oz. sugar. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 3 or 4 drops essence of almonds. A few sweet almonds. Sieve the flour and sugar, and rub the butter into them until free from lumps. Mix the yolk of egg with one table-spoonful of cream and the essence of almonds, and pour this into the centre of the dry ingredients. Work up with the hand into a stiffish paste, using a little more cream if necessary. Roll out on a floured board rather thinly, and cut in fancy shapes. Bake on a greased and floured tin until a golden brown colour. Allow the biscuits to cool on the tin, then brush them over with white of egg and sugar mixed, and sprinkle with chopped and browned almonds. Return the biscuits to the oven for a few minutes to dry. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 2730. Arrowroot Biscuits £ lb. arrowroot. I 1 tea-sp. sugar. 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. | A little milk. Sieve the dry ingredients into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then form into a stiff paste with a little milk. Knead until smooth, and roll out very thinly on a floured board. Cut into biscuits, and bake on a greased tin until brown and crisp. Note.—Richer biscuits may be made by adding more butter and mixing with a beaten egg and less milk. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 3d. 2731. Ayrshire Shortbread £ lb. flour. | lb. rice flour. | lb. butter. 4 oz. castor sugar. 1 egg. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Sieve the two kinds of flour into a basin, and rub the butter into them. Sieve in the sugar, and add the flavouring. Beat up the egg in a small basin, and add a little cream to it; pour this into the centre of the dry ingredients, and mix all into a paste with the hand, using more cream if necessary. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Flour a rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to about £ inch in thickness. Stamp it out in small rounds with a cutter, and place the biscuits on a greased and floured tin. Roll the scraps again, and cut out more biscuits until all is used, then bake the biscuits in a moderate oven until a pretty brown colour. Sprinkle them well with sugar while they are still hot, and lift them on to a sieve or wire stand to cool. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2732. Bachelor’s Buttons 5 oz. flour. | 2 oz. butter. 1 egg. 3 oz. castor sugar. [ A little flavouring. Cream the butter and sugar together, and add a little flavouring. Beat the egg, and add it gradu- ally with the flour until a stiffish paste is formed. Do not add all the egg unless necessary. Take small portions of the mixture, and roll them into balls the size of a hazel nut, using a little flora) to prevent them sticking to the hands. Place them on a greased and floured tin, and when all are ready sprinkle them with sugar. Bake in a good oven until the biscuits are lightly browned, then lift them on to a sieve to cool. Time to bake, about 12 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2733. Brandy Snaps £ lb. butter. J lb. castor sugar. | lb. flour. i lb. golden syrup. | tea-sp. ground ginger. A few drops of vanilla. Put the butter, sugar, and syrup into a saucepan and allow them to melt over the fire. Sieve the flour and mix it in gradually off the fire. Add the ginger, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Have ready one or two well-greased tins, pour the mixture on to them in small rounds, and then bake in a moderate oven. When ready, remove the snaps with a palette knife, twist them round cornet moulds, or round the handle of a wooden spoon, and remove them when cold. Time to bake, 10 minutes. 2734. Chestnut Biscuits £ lb. chestnuts. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. chocolate. Vanilla essence. Cook the chestnuts, t inner skin. Then rub 1 table-sp. water. 1 white of egg. A pinch of salt. Wafer paper. remove both outer and e nuts through a sieve