388 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1577. Maids of Honour 1 pt. milk. , y 1 dessert-sp. rennet./ 2 yolks of eggs. \ gill clotted cream. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of cinnamon. Grated rind of J lemon. A pinch of nutmeg. 2 oz. currants. \ glass of brandy. Puff or flaky pastry. Warm the milk slightly, add to it the rennet, and let it stand until a curd has formed. Put it in a coarse cloth on a sieve, and drain for twelve hours. Next day press the curd lightly with the cloth, and then put it in a basin. Add to it the yolks of eggs, sugar, cream, currants well cleaned, brandy, and flavourings, and mix all together. Line some patty pans with some good pastry rolled out rather thinly, and fill them with the above mixture. Bake them in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked, and sprinkle with sugar. Note.—The currants may be replaced by a few blanched and chopped almonds. In some parts of the country the curd can be bought ready made. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 12 tartlets. Probable cost. Id. each. 1578. Marigold Tartlets Puff or flaky pastry. i Sweet almonds. Apricot jam. | Angelica. Roll out some puff or flaky pastry rather thinly, and stamp it iD rounds with a fluted cutter about 2\ inches in diameter. Place these rounds on a baking tin, prick them with a fork, and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked and a pale brown colour. When ready, lift them on to a sieve and let them cool. To finish, put a small tea-spoonful of apricot jam on the centre of each round of pastry. Stick thin shreds of blanched almonds round this to imitate the petals of a mari- gold, and then garnish with a few small leaves of angelica. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, \d. each. 1579. Mince Pies Puff pastry. Mincemeat (see below). Roll out puff pastry to one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and stamp out rounds with a cutter three to four inches in diameter. Fold up the Mince Pies especially for the top of the pies.) Wet round the edge of half the number of rounds with a little cold water, and put a good tea-spoonfxd of mincemeat in the centre of each. Cover with the other rounds of pastry, and press the two edges well together. Make a small hole with a skewer on the top of each pie, brush them over with slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge them with sugar. Place the pies on a wetted baking sheet, and bake in a good oven until the pastry is well risen and nicely browned. When ready, sprinkle again with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 3d. each. 1580. Mincemeat £ lb. suet. | lb. Valencia raisins. | lb. sultana raisins. | lb. currants. | lb. figs. | lb. apples. 1 lb. sugar. 2 table-sps. marmalade. 3 oz. citron peel. 3 oz. lemon peel. 3 oz. orange peel. 6 oz. sweet almonds. 1 dessert - sp. mixed spices. Rind and juice of 2 lemons. 2 glasses of brandy. 1 glass of rum. First prepare the fruit, and as each article is ready put it into a large crock or basin. Pick and clean the currants and sultanas. Stone the raisins, peel and core the apples, and chop these two together with a long sharp knife. Shred the peel finely, and blanch and chop the almonds. Remove the stalks from the figs, wash them in very hot water, and then dry and cut them in small pieces. Add the spice to the fruit, also the suet finely chopped, and the lemon rind grated, and mix thoroughly with the hands. Then add the marmalade, lemon juice, rum and brandy, and mix again. Cover and stand in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Then mix once more, and pack into pots or jars. Tie a piece of parchment over the top of the pots to make them perfectly air-tight, and keep the mincemeat in a cool place. Do not use for several weeks. Note.—This mincemeat wall keep quite good for a year at least. If it should become rather dry, more wine or spirit may be added. 1581. Orange Hearts Roll out some puff pastry to J inch in thickness and cut it out in small heart-shaped pieces. Lay these on a baking sheet, prick them with a fork and bake them in a good oven until brown and crisp. Then lift them out, and when cool split the pastry open and spread with orange marmalade. Now coat the top of the hearts with a little orange icing without quite covering the pastry, and decorate with thin pieces of orange peel. 1582. Orange Slices (Patisserie d’Orange) 1 orange. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. cornflour. 1£ gills of milk. 2 yolks of'eggs. Puff or flaky pastry. scraps of pastry and roll them out again, cutting out more rounds as before. (The first rounds that are cut out are always the best, so keep them more To make the mixture, add the milk gradually to the cornflour, mixing until smooth. Turn this into a small saucepan, and stir over the fire until