COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 264 used as a garnish, and some good brown gravy should be served separately. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1085. ISpigrammes de Mouton a la Villeroi 14 lbs. breast of mutton. Allemande sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Spinach. Half-glaze sauce. 1 or 2 tomatoes. Cook and press the meat as directed in Recipe 1083. When cold, cut it in small round or oval- shaped pieces. Coat them on one side with some very thick villeroi sauce (Recipe 746), and put them in a cool place until set. Then egg and bread- crumb the epigrams, and fry them in a mixture of butter and lard until a delicate brown colour. Serve them on a border of nicely-cooked spinach alternately with small sections of cooked tomato, and serve half-glaze sauce (Recipe 719) round. Note.—A few small cutlets may be cooked and served along with the epigrams if wished. Lamb may be prepared in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Noisettes, Fillets or Scallops of Mutton These are neatly trimmed round or oval-shaped pieces, cut from the fleshy part of the loin or fillet of mutton. They may be cooked in the same way as cutlets, but are not generally egged and bread- crumbed. Like cutlets and fillets of beef, they can be served with a large variety of sauces and garnishes. 1086. Noisettes de Mouton aux Olives 4 doz. mutton cutlets. Salad oil or melted butter Seasoning. 6 round croutons. Carrot balls. Sauce aux olives. To Prepare the Noisettes.—Choose cutlets from the best end of the neck, bone them and trim them into little round fillets, folding round the long piece of fat and fastening it with a tiny skewer or match. Brush the fillets over with salad oil or melted butter. Season them with pepper and salt, and grill them in the usual way, allowing from 7 to 8 minutes. Sauce and Garnish.—Have ready some sauce aux olives (Recipe 733), and for garnishing some nicely- cooked carrot balls, or any other garnish which will make a pretty contrast in colour. To Serve.—Dish each little fillet of mutton on a round crouton of fried bread, pour the sauce over and round, and then garnish. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1087. Filets de Mouton & la Tyrolienne 1| lbs. best end neck of mutton. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped mushrooms. Salt. Pepper. 1 glass sherry or white wine. Egg and bread-crumbs. A potato border. Sauce Madere. Green peas. Garnish—Fresh mushrooms. To Prepare the Fillets.—This is a slightly different method from that described in last recipe. Buy the mutton in one piece and bone it. Cut it in slices about 4 inch thick, and trim these neatly to a round shape. Put the chopped parsley and onion on to a plate with the wine, pepper, salt, and a little chopped mushroom, made from the trimmings of the mushrooms used as a garnish. Lay the fillets of mutton in th s, and let them marinade for from \ to 1 hour, turning them occa- sionally. Then drain off the wine, which must be added to the sauce, dry the fillets of mutton and, a few minutes before serving, fry them in a small quantity of butter in a frying pan. (They may be egged and bread-crumbed be ore frying if wished.) They will require from 7 to 10 minutes. To Prepare the Garnish.—Prepare 6 or 8 mush- rooms, and trim them to an equal size. Place them on a greased tin, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice, cover them with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 12 nrnutes. Have ready some nicely cooked green peas, and fill up the mushrooms with them. To Serve.—Arrange a potato border (see Recipe 543) on a hot entree dish, place the fillets of mutton, when they are cooked, along the top of this, pour Madeira sauce (Recipe 726) round and garnish with the mushrooms. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1088. Lamb’s Sweetbread in Cases (Rls d’Agneau en Caisses) 6 to 8 oz. cooked sweet- bread. 2 table-sps. chopped ham or tongue. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. 1 table-sp. chopped mushrooms. Seasoning. White chaudfroid sauce. Aspic jelly. 1 truffle. Salad. Break the sweetbread into small pieces and add to it the chopped ham, mushrooms, parsley, and a little grated lemon rind. Mix well together and season to taste with cayenne pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Moisten with one or two table- spoonfuls of white chaudfroid sauce (Recipe 713), and set the mixture in a cool place for half an hour or so. Then take some small paper cases (cutlet- shaped ones are best), and put a spoonful of the Lamb’s Sweetbread in Cases mixture into each, smooth over and put some more of the sauce in a lukewarm condition on the top. Cool again, decorate with truffle or other garnish to taste, and coat lightly with aspic jelly. When quite set, stick a little skewer cutlet frill into the narrow end of each and arrange the cases neatly