396 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the cloth oB paper from the top, then take hold of the basin or mould with a cloth, and shake it gently to ascertain that the pudding is coming away quite freely from the sides, then reverse it on a hot dish and remove the mould carefully. Wien the pudding is boiled in a cloth, lift it on to a colander or sieve, and let it drain a minute or two. Then untie the string, draw the cloth away from the sides of the pudding, reverse it on a hot dish and draw the cloth carefully away. For care of pudding cloths, see p. 14. 1732. Albert Pudding 3 eggs. 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. castor sugar. £ lemon rind. 3 oz. butter. 1 or 2 oz. Valencia raisins. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. milk. Split and stone the raisins, and dry them for a few minutes on a plate in the oven. Then grease a plain mould or basin, and decorate it with the prepared raisins, putting the cut side next the mould. To Make the Mixture.—Peel the rind very thinly off half a lemon, chop it finely, put it into a basin with the butter, and beat well with a wooden spoon until reduced to a soft creamy consistency. Then sieve the sugar on the top, and beat again for a few minutes. Sieve the flour, and add one egg and a little flour alternately, until all are mixed in. Add the milk and the baking powder last of all. Pour the mixture into the prepared mould, cover with greased paper and steam until nicely risen and firm to the touch. Turn out when ready and serve with jam, custard, or chocolate sauce. Time to steam, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. without sauce. 1733. Amber Pudding 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 4 oz. minced apple. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. flour. 4 oz. chopped suet. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. golden syrup. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of salt. Grated lemon rind. Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the syrup slightly warm, and the two eggs well beaten, and mix together, adding a little milk if necessary. The mixture should be just moist enough to drop easily from the spoon. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper, and steam quickly until thoroughly cooked. Turn out when ready and serve with lemon, orange, or syrup sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. without sauce. 1734. Apple Doughdy £ doz. apples, i lb. sugar. Water. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. f lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. A pinch of salt. About \ pt. milk. Peel and slice the apples, put them into a stew- pan with the sugar and enough water to cover them, bring them to the boil, and cook until nearly tender. Meanwhile sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then add enough milk to form a dough. Roll out on a floured board to an inch in thickness and cut out in small round cakes. Lay these on the top of the hot apples, cover the saucepan and simmer slowly until all is cooked. Serve the apples in the centre of a dish and the dumplings round. Note.—Other fruits or a mixture of fruits may be used in the same way as the apples. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1735. Apple and Rice Dumpling £ lb. rice. 3 or 4 apples. Well wash the rice and throw it into a saucepan of boiling water, to which a little salt has been added, allow it to boil quickly for £ hour, then drain oS every drop of water. Meanwhile peel, core, and quarter the apples. Then take a clean scalded pudding cloth and spread the rice in the centre of it. Heap the apples on the top of this and gather up the cloth, arranging it so that the apples are covered with the rice. Tie the pudding rather tightly and plunge it into a sauce- pan of fast-boiling water with a plate or saucer at the foot of it. Boil quickly the required time, then turn out and serve plain with Demerara sugar, or with some nice fruit sauce or syrup sauce. Time to boil, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 4d. or 5d. 1736. Steamed Apricot Pudding 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour. Rind and juice of £ lemon. 2 eggs. A pinch of cinnamon. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 4 or 5 pieces tinned apricot. Cream the butter in a basin, add the sugar, and then the flour and eggs by degrees. Then beat well until light and frothy. Drain the pieces of apricot and cut them in small pieces, add them to the mixture with the cinnamon, lemon rind, and juice, and last of all the baking powder. Mix well and pour into a greased mould. Cover with greased paper, and steam steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. AVben ready, turn out and strain the following sauce over and round : Sauce A pt. apricot puree. Rind and juice £ lemon. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. 1| gills cold water. 1 oz. cornflour. Flavouring. A little apricot yellow. Make the apricot puree by rubbing some of the tinned apricots through a sieve, using_ some of the syrup along with the fruit. Put this into a sauce- pan and allow it to heat over the fire. Add the cornflour mixed with the cold water and stir until boiling. Then put in the sugar, a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice, and, if wished, 1 table- spoonful maraschino or other liqueur to flavour. Colour with a small quantity of apricot yellow (this may be omitted if not at hand), simmer slowly for a few minutes and use as directed. Time to steam, 1£ hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d.