COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 310 1287. Egg Balls 3 hard-boiled yolks. I Salt. Cayenne. Raw yolk of egg. | A little flour. Pound the hard-boiled yolks in a mortar with seasoning and enough raw yolk to form a smooth paste. Put the mixture on a floured board, and divide it into small portions. Roll these into balls with a little flour and poach them very carefully for 3 or 4 minutes in salted water. Lift out with a draining spoon and serve in soup, or as a garnish for fish, &c. These balls may also be fried a golden brown, in which case it would be better to give them an extra coating of white of egg and flour before putting them in the fat. Notes.—Sometimes the whole hard-boiled egg is used for making these balls. The mixture should then be sieved in order to make it perfectly smooth. A little grated Parmesan cheese may be added. 3 table-sps. crumbs. 1 table-sp.chopped suet. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley £ tea-sp. mixed herbs. A little grated lemon rind. Pepper. Salt. Enough egg to bind. A little flour. 1288. Forcemeat Balls, 1 bread- Chop the suet very finely and put it in a basin with the bread-crumbs, and parsley finely chopped. Add the herbs finely powdered, grated lemon rind, pepper and salt, and mix all together with the tips of the fingers. Beat up one egg, or one yolk of egg with a little milk, and add enough of this to bind all together. Form into small balls with a little flour, and poach them in boiling salted water for 10 minutes, or they may be dipped in beaten egg, and baked or fried in butter until a golden brown. Note.—A piece of butter the size of a walnut may be used instead of the suet—it will require to be rubbed into the bread-crumbs. 4 table-sps. cooked meat 4 table-sps. breadcrumbs \ tea-sp. mixed herbs. 1 tea-sp. choppcdparsley dessert-sp. melted butter. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. A little flour 1289. Forcemeat Balls, 2 1 Chop the meat very finely, and mix it with the other dry ingredients, seasoning to taste. Add the melted butter, and bind all together with the yolk of an egg. Form into small balls, using a little flour to make them dry. Throw them into a little boiling water or stock, and boil them slowly for 10 minutes. Drain and serve in soup or as directed.- If preferred, the balls may be fried in a little butter. 1290. Forcemeat Balls, 3 | lb. sausage meat. [ 1 yolk of egg. 2 oz. bread. | Seasoning. A little flour. Soak the bread in cold water, squeeze it dry, and add it to the sausage meat. Add more seasoning if necessary and bind all together with yolk of egg. Form the mixture into small balls the size of a marble, coating them with flour. Throw them into boiling stock or salted water, boil for 10 minutes and drain. Or. if preferred, fry them until brown in a little butter or dripping. 1291. Liver Balls for Soup 3 oz. chicken fivers. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 table-sp. butter. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Wash and dry the fivers. Cut them in pieces, and fry them a few minutes in the butter. Then pound them in a mortar with the parsley, yolk of egg, and seasoning to taste. When smooth, rub the mixture through a wire sieve, and allow it to cool. Form into small balls, using a little flour, egg and bread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat until brown. Drain the balls well and put them into the soup at the moment of serving. 1292. Marrow Balls 3 table-sps. breadcrumbs 1 table-sp. chopped marrow. 1 small egg. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Chop the marrow very finely and mix it with the bread-crumbs. Season to taste and bind all to- gether with yolk of egg. Form the mixture into small balls the size of a marble, using a little flour, and dip them in slightly beaten wliite of egg. Throw them into a little boiling water slightly salted, and boil them a few minutes until they begin to .float. Then lift them out with a per- forated spoon, allowing the water to drain from them, and serve in soup. 1293. Potato Dumplings or Quenelles for Soup 2 or 3 large cooked i Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 tea-sp. flour. potatoes. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. The potatoes must be dry and mealy; they should either be baked or boiled in their jackets. Remove the skins and rub them through a sieve. Cream the little piece of butter, add to it the yolks of eggs, and then the potatoes, flour and seasoning. Mix well together and set aside until firm. Form the mixture into small dumplings and cook them 5 minutes in boiling stock or broth. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be made into small quenelles, shaping it with two tea- spoons (see Recipe 1099). 1294. Sausage Meat Balls \ lb. sausage meat. A cupful soaked bread. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of mace. Beaten egg. A little flour. Soak a small quantity of stale bread in cold water, then squeeze it as dry as possible in a cloth and take the required quantity. Beat this with a fork until free from lumps, add the sausage meat and seasoning, mix well together and bind with beaten egg. Turn the mixture on to a floured board and divide it in pieces the size of a marble. Roll these into small balls with the help of a little flour, then dust some dry flour over them and shake it oS again. When all are ready, cook them in boiling soup or water for 10 or 12 minutes. 1295. Sponge Dumplings 1 gill milk. I 1 tea-sp. parsley. 1 oz. butter. 4 oz. flour. I Seasoning. 2 eggs. Put the milk and butter into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Add the flour finely sifted,