BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 569 little flour. Lay them on a greased and floured tin, and make a hole in the top of each. Fill up with a small quantity of raspberry jam, and pinch the dough together again. Then flatten the buns slightly, brush them over with a little milk or white of egg, sprinkle them with sugar, and bake in a good oven. When ready, the buns will crack on the top and show the jam. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2716. Little Raspberry Cakes Genoese pastry. Raspberry essence. Raspberry jam. Carmine. Almond paste. Take some Genoese pastry or other sponge cake mixture and cut it in small round pieces about \ an inch in thickness, and from 2 to 2\ inches in diameter. Then coat these on one side with rasp- berry jam. Prepare a small quantity of almond little Kaspberry Cakes paste, flavour it with raspberry essence, and colour it a pretty pink with liquid carmine. Roll this out very thinly, and stamp out little rounds about the size of a sixpenny piece. Arrange these in a circle round the cakes, one overlapping the other, and put a very little chopped pistachio nut in the centre. 2717. Rice Buns 2 oz. ground rice. 3 oz. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 eggs. \ tea-sp. baking powder. A little flavouring. Cream the butter, add the sugar, and beat them together for a few minutes. Add the ground rice flavouring, and 1 egg, and beat well for a few minutes. Sieve the flour with the baking powder, and add them next with the second egg. Beat again for a few minutes, and then three-parts fill small prepared cake tins with the mixture. Place the cakes on a baking tin, and bake them in a moderate oven until they are brown, and feel firm to the touch. This quantity will make from ten to twelve small cakes or buns. Note.—This mixture may, if liked, be made in one large cake. It will take about one hour to bake. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2718. Richmond Cakes 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. brown sugar. 2 oz. treacle. £ tea-sp. ground ginger. | tea-sp. mixed spice. | lb. flour. A little grated lemon rind. 1 oz. rice flour. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. desiccated cocoanut. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Cream the butter and work in the sugar by de- grees. Add the treacle, spices, and lemon rind, and mix well together. Sieve the two kinds of flour, and add them alternately with the 2 eggs. Beat the mixture until air bubbles begin to appear, and add the baking powder and cocoanut at the last. Half fill small greased tins that have been dusted out with flour and sugar mixed, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2719. Russian Slices Genoese pastry. i Fondant or glace icing. Scraps of cake. | Syrup—2 oz. loaf sugar, \ gill of water, a little rum, or other flavouring. Any scraps of cake may be used for making Russian slices, except dough cake, or very stale cake. They will look prettier if there are several different colours of cakes used. Cut a slice of Genoese pastry the size you wish the cake to be, spread it with jam, and fit it into a shallow tin or wooden box. Break up sufficient scraps of cake to nearly fill the box, and put the pieces into a basin. Make a syrup in the above proportion by boiling the sugar and water together for 10 minutes, and then adding the flavouring. Pour sufficient syrup over the pieces of cake to moisten them and bind them together, but be careful not to make them too moist. Mix lightly, but do not mash up the cake. Press this mixture into the box smoothly and evenly. Spread another slice of Genoese pastry with jam, and lay it on the top. Let all rest for a short time, and then turn the cake out. To Ice the Cake.—Have some white fondant or glace icing rather thick, flavour it, and spread it evenly over the cake with a knife. Colour a little of the icing pink, put it into a paper cornet, and force it out in thin lines across the cake. Then with the back of the point of the knife score it across at equal distances, thus giving the lines a curve. Turn the cake, and score across the other way, so as to give the icing a marbled appearance. Allow the cake to stand for an hour or two before cutting, and then, cut in neat slices with a very sharp knife. The colour of the icing and the flavouring may be varied according to taste. Probable cost, 1 d. a slice. 2720. Seed Rock Cakes Make in the same way as Currant Rock Cakes (Recipe 2692), using one teaspoonful of caraway seeds instead of the currants. 2721. Scotch Cookies 1 £ lbs. flour. 1 oz. yeast 1 tea-sp. salt. 3 gills tepid milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 oz. currants. 3 oz. butter. Sieve the flour into a warm basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter in a saucepan, pour in