101 FISH 269. Whiting, To Bake (Merlans Rotis) 4 whiting. 2 oz. butter, i Juice of i lemon. 1 table-sp. flour. | Pepper and salt. Skin the whiting, cut ofl the heads, and clean them thoroughly. Put the flour on to a plate, season it with pepper and salt, and dip the fish into it, coating each one lightly. Grease a fireproof or gratin dish with butter, and lay the fish on it. Strain the lemon juice over, and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 270. Fillets of Whiting with Mushrooms (Filets de Merlans aux Champignons) 4 whiting. Butter. Salad oil. Seasoning. A little flour. \ lb. fresh mushrooms. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. ltea-sp. chopped parsley 2 table-sps. Dread- crumbs. Skin and fillet the whiting, making eight pieces in all, and season them with pepper and salt. Wash, peel, and chop the mushrooms, and prepare the chopped onion. Now melt about 1 oz. of butter in a small saucepan, add to it the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes. Then put in the chopped mushrooms, season with pepper and salt, and cook from 8 to 10 minutes longer or until the chopped ingredients are tender. Add the parsley at the last. Coat the fillets of fish with a little flour and saute them in a mixture of butter and salad oil until cooked and lightly browned. Then put the mushroom mixture on a flat fire- proof dish, arrange the fish neatly on the top, sprinkle with the bread-crumbs and a little salad oil or melted butter, and brown quickly in the oven. Serve hot, garnished with a few sprigs of parsley and slices of fresh lemon. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 271. Whiting a la Rasse (Merian a la Russe) 2 or 3 whiting. A little carrot, onion, and parsley. Pepper and salt. 1 gill water. \ oz. butter. 1 glass white wine. Prepare a small onion and cut it in very thin slices. Slice also some red carrot very thinly, and stamp out some fancy shapes with a small vege- table cutter. Put this prepared carrot and onion into a small saucepan with the water, half the butter, and a little well-washed parsley, picked free from the stalks and left in small sprigs. Add a little salt, and cook these vegetables for a few minutes until they are tender. Meanwhile prepare the fish. Wash and clean the whiting without opening them, trim them neatly, and place them on a greased fireproof dish. Pour the white wine over and then the vegetables and liquid from the saucepan. Then place the fish in the oven, and cook them until tender. When ready, lift the fish on to the dish on which it is to be served, reduce the liquid in the baking dish, add the re- mainder of the butter at the last, but without boiling again, and pour all over the fish. Notes.—Sometimes a little sour cream is added at the last instead of the butter. Other kinds of fish may be cooked in the same way. PART III FRESHWATER FISH Barbel (Barbeau) This is a river fish which takes its name from the four barbels or fleshy appendages which, fringe its mouth. It is common to most rivers, and, as it burrows in the mud, it requires careful cleaning, and should be soaked in water for some time before using. It is poor in flavour, and requires a good sauce, or to be cooked with wine. A. Barbel B. Bream Bream (Breme) A freshwater fish not much esteemed. It is found in ponds and slow-running rivers. The flesh is dry and bony, without much taste, and a good buttery sauce is required to make it palatable. See also Sea Bream, p. 95. Carp (Carpe) A freshwater fish, which frequently grows to a very large size. A medium-sized one is best. The carp has the habit of burying itself in the mud, which sometimes gives it a disagreeable flavour— in fact the flavour will be influenced by the char- Carp acter of its habitat. It requires careful cleaning, and should be soaked for an hour or two in salt and water, and then washed in vinegar and water