COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 455 strips and arrange them like a fan on the side of the mould. Then at the ends of the stalks place thin pieces of pistachio nut to imitate the petals. Make four or five of those sprays round the sides of the mould, and set them with more jelly. To Make the Mixture.—First make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and sugar, and flavour it with vanilla. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add it to the oustard, and strain both into a basin and allow them to cool. Whip the cream and stir it lightly into the custard, and when this mix- ture is beginning to set, pour a little of it into the prepared mould. Then in the centre place two or three small pieces of sponge cake and a few ratafias that have been well soaked in sherry or liqueur. Then more of the cream mixture, more sponge cake and ratafias, until the mould is full. The sponge cake, &c., must be kept well to the centre, so that it does not show through the cream when the pudding is turned out. Set the pudding aside until cold and set. When wanted, turn out carefully, and decorate with chopped jelly or some sprays of real maidenhair. Note.—The decoration of the mould may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2056. Fairy Baskets (Crimes des F6es) Some sponge cake or Madeira cake. A little sherry or liqueur. Raspberry or apricot jam. Custard. Thick cream. Sugar and flavouring. Strips of angelica. Decorations. Crystallised rose leaves and orange flowers. For these creams some small fancy dishes or pretty paper cases will be required. Allow one for each person and one over. Cut some sponge cake or Madeira cake into neat little pieces, and a suitable shape for the dishes. Split these, spread them with jam, and soak with a few drops of liqueur or sherry. Then put them into the dishes or cases, and pour a spoonful of thick custard, nicely flavoured, over them. Pile whipped cream, which has been sweetened and flavoured, on the top, and bend a strip of well-soaked angelica over the top to form a handle. Decorate with crystallised rose leaves and orange flowers. Note.—This makes a pretty sweet for a children’s party. 2057. Floating Island (fie Flottante) A sponge or Savoy cake. Apricot or raspberry jam. Whipped cream. Sugar. Flavouring. Some sherry or liqueur. Shred almonds. Pistachio nuts. Some custard. Choose a sponge cake or Savoy cake as high in form as possible. Cut it in slices, spread the pieces with a little apricot or raspberry jam, and soak them with a little sherry or liqueur. Then put the cake back into shape, and stand it in a deep china or crystal dish. Mask it with a little whipped cream, which has been sweetened and flavoured, stick some shred almonds all over the top and sides, and sprinkle with some finely-chopped pistachio nuts. Pour some good custard round the base, and the floating island is ready to serve. 2058. G&teau & la Prineesse 8 wafer biscuits. Pink royal icing A piece of white cake. \ pt. double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Preserved or fresh fruit. Choose the oblong wafer biscuits about 2 inches in width, such as are used for serving with ices. Cut a slice of Genoese pastry or any white cake about inches square and 1 inch thick. Then make it octagonal in shape by cutting off the four corners. Each side of the octagon should be the width of a wafer biscuit. Spread the sides of the cake with pink royal icing, and stand the biscuits G&teau a la Prineesse round it, pressing them well against the icing, which ought to be stiff enough to make them adhere. Join the biscuits together with more of the icing, put through a forcing bag, and thus make a little case or basket of the wafer biscuits. Allow this to stand some time until the icing is set, and do not fill with the cream until a few minutes before serving, as the wafers soon lose their crispness. For Filling.—Whip the cream, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and then mix in some fruit, either fresh or preserved, cut in small pieces. Stand the wafer case on the dish on which it is to be served, with a dish paper under it. Pile up the cream mixture in the centre, and decorate, if wished, with more of the fruit or with violets and pistachio nuts. Tie a piece of white ribbon round the gateau, and it is ready, for serving. Notes.—The colouring can, of course, be varied to suit individual taste and the decoration of the table. A larger gateau may be made by using 2 biscuits for each side of an octagon. A square of cream pastry may be used instead of the cake. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2059. Gfiteau de Pommes a la Cr6me Pastry. 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. 1 egg. A squeeze of lemon juice. Mixture. \ pt. apple puree. 1 gill lemon or wine jelly 1 gill double cream. 2 sheets of gelatine. 1 table sp. liqueur. To Make the Pastry Case.—First make the pastry according to directions given for Short Crust (see Recipe 1439), using enough beaten egg to bind, and keeping it rather stiff. Grease a plain souffle tin, and line it with this pastry rolled out rather