472 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD lid or saucer. Stand the jar in a saucepan of hot water, and simmer by the side of the fire until the juice is well drawn from the raspberries. Then strain through a cloth or hair sieve, and let them drain all night. Next day measure the juice and put it into a preserving pan with the above pro- portion of sugar. Bring to the boil, stirring fre- quently, and boil gently until the jelly will set. Then pour into small pots and cover. 2154. Red-currant Jam Red currants. Preserving sugar. Pick the currants very carefully, and then weigh them. Weigh also f lb. preserving sugar for each pound of fruit. Put the sugar on to a large dish and let it heat slowly in the oven without taking colour. Meanwhile put the red currants into a preserving pan with just enough water to wet the bottom of the pan. Bring them to the boil, stirring all the time, and then boil 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Now add the sugar, and boil both together until the jam will set when tested on a cold plate. Pour into pots and cover as directed on p. 466. 2155. Red-currant Jelly Make in the same way as Black-currant Jelly (Recipe 2123). 2156. Red-currant Jelly without Water To 1 pt. of fruit juice allow 1 lb. sugar. Pick the large stalks and leaves from the quantity of currants to be used, and wash the fruit in cold water. Then put the currants into a large jar, place in the oven of a kitchen range in the even- ing, and leave them all night. Next day turn the fruit into a jelly bag or cloth, and squeeze out the juice thoroughly. Measure this juice, and put it into a clean preserving pan with the above pro- portion of sugar. Bring to the boil, stirring fre- quently, boil quickly for 5 minutes, then skim and pot. Notes.—Instead of being put into a jar, the currants may be thoroughly heated in the pre- serving pan until the juice can be freely drawn from 'them, then squeezed through the jelly bag as above. This makes a very delicious jelly, but unless one has a garden and the fruit is plentiful, it comes much more expensive than when water is used. 2157. Red-currant Marmalade, 1 Red currants. Sugar. Choose fresh, ripe currants, remove them from the stalks, and wash them if necessary. Mash them in a strong basin and then rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back the seeds. Measure the pulp into a preserving pan, and measure off 1 lb. sugar to each pint. Bring the pulp to the boil, and let it cook about 15 minutes. Meanwhile let the sugar warm in the oven, add it to the pulp when it has boiled the required time, and then boil both together until the mixture will set. Remove any scum, pour into pots, and cover. 2158. Red-currant Marmalade, 2 Red currants. Sugar. Pick and wash the currants. Put them into a saucepan and mash them over the fire until re- duced to a soft pulp. Then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve without allowing any of the seeds to pass through. Measure the pulp, and to each pint allow 1 lb. of sugar. Put sugar and pulp into a preserving pan, heat slowly over the fire, stirring frequently, then boil until the mixture will set when a little is tested on a plate. Pour into pots and cover in the usual way. 2159. Rhubarb Jam, 1 6 lbs. prepared rhubarb. 1J oz. bitter almonds. 6 lbs. preserving sugar. \ glass whisky. 2 lemons. Peel some nice fresh rhubarb, cut it in small pieces, and then weigh it. Rinse it well in cold water and put it into a preserving pan. Heat it slowly over the fire until the juice begins to flow, then add the sugar, the grated rind and the strained juice of 2 lemons, and the almonds blanched and chopped. Stir almost constantly until the sugar is melted, and then boil until the jam will set when a little is tested on a plate. Skim when necessary, and pot in the usual way. Note.—The whisky may be omitted, but the jam wall keep better if it is added. 2160. Rhubarb Jam, 2 6 lbs. rhubarb. 6 lbs. preserving sugar. 3 lemons. Choose some nice red-stalked rhubarb. Wipe it and, unless young and tender, take off the peel. Cut it into small pieces and then weigh it. Put it into a large crock or basin in layers with the sugar, and sprinkle with the grated rind of the lemons. Strain the lemon juice over, cover the basin, and stand for twenty-four hours. Next day pour off the liquid and as much of the melted sugar as possible into a preserving pan, and boil for 10 minutes. Put in the rhubarb and boil all together from J to £- hour, or until the jam will set. It must be stirred very frequently and skimmed when necessary. Note.—This jam may be flavoured with ginger if preferred, or oranges may be used instead of lemons. A few blanched and shredded almonds may be added. 2161. Rhubarb Juice Rhubarb juice may be used instead of water in the making of many jams, especially in the pre- serving of the less juicy fruits. Its flavour is so deli- cate that it does not overpower the flavour of the special fruit with which it is used. Wash the rhubarb, but do not peel it unless the skin is very coarse, as this helps to give a pink colour. Cut it in small pieces and put it into a large jar with just enough water to moisten the base. Cover the jar and steam in a saucepan of water, or cook in the oven until the juice is drawn out of the rhubarb. Then strain through a jelly cloth or clean hair sieve.