121 FISH small spoonful of the mixture at the bottom of each, place a fish on the top, and then more of the mix- ture. Squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over the top. Arrange the cases on a tin, being careful to see that they stand perfectly flat, and bake in a good oven until the fish is cooked. Garnish with a little parsley or chervil, and serve immediately. Note.—Other mixtures may be used in place of the above, and the fish may be wrapped in a heart- shaped piece of paper if the cases are not obtainable. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 371. Red Mullet a la Parisienne (Rougets a la Parisienne) 3 or 4 small mullets. 1 small onion. Seasoning. 1 glass white wine. 2 tomatoes. 1 dessert-sp. salad oil. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Lemon. Peel and slice the onion very thinly, and pull it apart into rings. Put these into a small saucepan with the wine, and cook 5 or 6 minutes over the fire. Meanwhile prepare the mullets. Empty them through the gills, trim and wash them. Place them in a fireproof dish and pour the hot wine and water over them. Cover with greased paper, and cook in the oven about 20 minutes without allowing the liquid to boil. When the fish are ready, arrange them neatly on an oval dish, lift out the rounds of onion from the liquid and reduce the latter until only 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls remain. Pour this round the fish and set aside until quite cold. Garnish.—Make a salad with the tomatoes, &c. Peel the tomatoes, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the liquid. Then cut the tomatoes in small dice, season with pepper, salt, and a little chopped parsley, and mix with the oil and vinegar. Allow this to stand in a cool place for a short time. When the fish is quite cold, arrange a little of the tomato salad down the centre of each, with a few onion rings, graduating in size, on the top, and a tiny sprig of parsley or chervil in the centre of each ring. Garnish the sides of the dish with slices of lemon, and serve very cold. Time to cook, i hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 372. Red Mullet a la Marechale (Rougets a la Marechale) 3 red mullets. 2 table-sps. salad oil. Juice of J lemon. Pepper, salt. Bread-crumbs. ltable-sp. melted butter. 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. 1 or 2 truffles. Remove the fillets from the mullets, and let them lie for some little time in a marinade made of the oil, lemon juice, and seasoning. Then coat them with fine bread-crumbs, and lay them neatly in a well-greased fireproof dish. Toss the asparagus points in a little butter, season them, and sprinkle with the grated cheese. Garnish the fish with these, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven. Decorate with strips of truffle. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 373. Salmon Cream (Mousseline de Saumon) i lb. sieved salmon. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 4 pt. double cream. 2 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. Coralline pepper. Salt. Take some uncooked salmon, free it from all skin and bone, rub it through a sieve and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix till smooth with a wooden spoon. Pour in the milk, and stir until the mixture forms one lump, and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Put this into a basin with the salmon, and mix thoroughly, adding the eggs by degrees. Season to taste, and at the last stir in £ pint of whipped cream. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, which has been prettily decorated with truffle and chopped parsley, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm .to the touch. Serve with cardinal or bechamel sauce. Note.—If preferred the cream may be steamed in small moulds. Time to steam, J to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 374. Slice of Salmon with Cucumber (Darne de Saumon aux Concombres) 1 slice of salmon (1£ lb.) 3 oz. butter. \ gill white wine. Cream. 1 cucumber. Seasoning. Wipe the salmon and season it with a little pepper and salt. Place it in a greased baking tin or saute pan with about 1 oz. butter, cover over and cook in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Peel the cucumber, cut it in slices about 1J inches in thickness, cut these across in quarters and remove the seeds. Put the pieces of cucumber into a small saucepan with another ounce of butter, season with pepper and salt, put on the lid and cook slowly until tender. When the salmon is cooked, drain it from the butter, place it on a hot dish, and garnish with the cucumber. Keep this warm whilst making the sauce. Add any butter left from the cucumber to that in which the salmon was cooked. Add also the white wine, and cook 5 minutes. Then pour in the cream, season to taste, and add another small piece of butter at the last. Strain or tammy the sauce and pour it round the salmon. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 375. Mayonnaise of Salmon (Mayonnaise de Saumon) A middle cut of salmon. Mayonnaise sauce. Aspic jelly. Decorations. Parsley, cucumber, truf- fle, lobster coral, &c. Cook a nice cut of salmon, remove the skin and let it become icy cold. Then wipe it with a dry soft cloth, trim it neatly and put it on a clean dish. Take some thick mayonnaise sauce (Recipe 753) and add liquid aspic jelly to it in the proportion of | gill to \ pint. When the sauce is in a setting condition pour it over the fish, coating it well, and then set aside until firm. When about to serve.