COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 660 outside. Insert the knife between the bones, and cut right through, separating all the cutlets in the same manner. The slices should be of moderate thickness, and if there is a kidney, a piece of it should be served with each portion. Saddle of Mutton.—This should be placed on the dish with the tail end to the left. Insert the fork firmly in the middle, and carve across the ribs in long slices running parallel with the back bone. Then slip the knife under and detach the slices from the ribs. If too long, they may be cut across in two or three pieces. A small piece of crisp fat from the lower part of the ribs may be served with each portion. Shoulder of Mutton.—This is one of the most difficult joints to carve. Serve with the skin side uppermost on the dish. Insert the fork in the fleshy part, and raise the joint slightly from the dish. Take as many slices as possible from the side A to B, cutting in each case right through to the bone. Then insert the knife close to the'bone and detach the slices. The meat lying on each side of the blade bone on the upper side of the joint should next be cut, carving the whole length of the meat from the knuckle end B to C. Cut also a small piece of crisp fat from D to E, to serve with each portion. Then turn the joint, and take slices off the under side. The under-part is the juiciest and most delicate part, and is frequently cut before the upper portion. Fore Quarter of Lamb.—This is another some- what troublesome joint to carve. The first point to attend to is to raise the shoulder from the ribs and breast. Insert the fork in the most fleshy part of the shoulder, and with the knife cut round as shown by dotted line C. Raise up the shoulder on the fork and cut it away, without removing too much of the meat from underneath. The shoulder portion should be carved in the same manner as a shoulder of muton, but unless the whole joint is required for one meal, it is usual to have this put aside on a separate dish and served cold. Cut the under portion across, separating the ribs from the breast. Divide the ribs one from the other, A to B, and cut the breast in slices. A small portion of each may be served to each person. VEAL Fillet of Veal.—This should be carved in thin, even slices, in the same way as a round of beef. If there is stuffing, a small quantity should be served with each portion. Loin of Veal.—Carve in the same way as loin of mutton, unless the cutlets are very large, when they may be cut in slices like ribs of beef. Knuckle of Veal.—Carve in the same way as a leg of mutton. PORK Leg of Pork.—Carve in the same way as a leg of mutton, serving a piece of the crisp fat and a small quantity of stuffing, if there is any, to each person. Loin of Pork.—Carve in the same way as a loin of mutton, separating the cutlets between the bones. Sucking Pig.—This is generally sent to table cut in two down the centre, with the head cut off and a piece laid at each side. The four legs should first be cut away from the carcase, and then the ribs separated into small cutlets. It is all good, it is entirely a matter of choice which part is served. Ham.—If the ham is sent to table whole, the thickest part should be placed towards the outer side of the dish. Take a very sharp knife, and make an incision through the thickest part and right down to the bone. Continue cutting in very - thin slices towards both ends of the ham, and serve a fair amount of fat with each portion. A more economical way of carving a ham is to commence at the knuckle end, and cut off thin slices, working towards the thicker part. When ; the bone begins to look unsightly, it can be sawn off.