496 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD allow J- table-spoonful of thick mayonnaise sauce and 1 tea-spoonful of chopped capers and gherkin mixed. Mix together very lightly, adding more seasoning if necessary, and fill up the banana skins. Whip some double cream until thick, season it with salt and a dust of cayenne, and pile a little on the top of each banana boat. Decorate with fine strips of red chilli and small sprigs of cherries or a little mustard and cress. Serve on small lace- edged papers, and as soon as possible after prepara- tion. 2268. Canapes au Caviare Bread and butter. I Seasoning. Caviare. | Savoury butter. Cut small round or fancy-shaped canapes of Hovis or other fine brown bread and butter. Season some caviare with cayenne and lemon juice, and pile some up neatly on each canape. Then decorate prettily with some savoury butter, such as maitre d’hfitel, anchovy, lobster, or shrimp butter, put through a forcing bag or paper cornet with a small rose pipe. Notes.—The decoration may of course be varied according to the materials at disposal, but it must be light and delicate. Small buttered biscuits may be used instead of the bread and butter, and a thin slice of cucumber may be laid on them first. 2269. Croutes au Caviare Caviare. I I.emon juice. Oysters. Cayenne pepper. | Fried croutes. Make the required number of croutes of fried bread as directed in Recipe 2245, or small croUtes creuses as in Recipe 2246 may be used. They must be small, dry, and crisp. Season some caviare with cayenne, lemon juice, and a little chopped shallot if liked, and pile some on the top of each croute. Lay a fresh bearded oyster on the top, and garnish with tiny pieces of sliced lemon and little sprigs of parsley or chervil. Note.—Use a silver spoon or wooden skewer for mixing the caviare ; it must never be touched with a steel knife or other metal. 2270. Caviare and Prawn Canapes (Canapes de Crevettes au Caviare) Caviare. I Picked prawns. Seasoning. Lemon. | Brown bread and butter Season some caviare with cayenne pepper, a squeeze of lemon juice, and if hked a small quantity of very finely chopped shallot. Prepare some oval- shaped canapes of brown bread and butter (see Recipe 2247), lay a small piece of thinly sliced lemon or cucumber on each, and cover this with the seasoned caviare. Now lay a picked prawn across one end of each canape?, and put a tiny sprig of chervil at the other side. Serve on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, garnishing with some of the heads of the prawns. 2271. Cheese Canapds (Canapes au Fromage) Small round biscuits. Cucumber. Butter. Cream cheese. Tarragon vinegar. Salt. Small cress. Choose plain crisp biscuits and very small. Butter as many of them as will be required for the savoury. Then take a straight piece of cucumber, and cut the peel off it in narrow strips lengthwise, leaving alternate dark and fight green stripes. Cut as many slices J inch in thickness as there are buttered biscuits. Stamp the centre out of each with a small round cutter, and lay the rings on a plate. Sprinkle them with salt and a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and allow them to stand a few minutes. Then drain the cucumber, and put a piece on the top of each biscuit. Put some cream cheese into a paper cornet or small forcing bag, and force it out to fill the centre of the cucumber rings and also a little round the sides to cover the edges of biscuit. Garnish with tiny bunches of small cress, and serve as a cold savoury. Notes.—If the cheese is rather stiff, work a little cream into it before putting it into the forcing bag. A thin slice of tomato may be used instead of the cucumber. 2272. Cheese Comets (Cornets de Fromage) Cheese pastry. Cayenne. Salt. £ gill double cream. Coralline pepper. J lb. cheese. Chopped parsley. Make some very small cornets with cheese pastry (see Recipe 2250), bake them, and let them cool. Then whip the cream and mix it with the cheese; season with cayenne and salt if necessary, and put the mixture into a forcing bag -with a rose pipe. Force this out into the little cornets, and decorate them alternately with chopped parsley and coralline pepper. 2273. Cheese Creams (Petites Cremes au Fromage) 2 oz. grated Parmesan or Gruyere. 1 gill aspic jelly. 1 gill double cream. Cayenne. I tea-sp. made mustard. A few radishes. Watercress. Take six or seven small dariole moulds, rinse them out with cold water, and decorate them at the bottom -with some of the aspic jelly melted and tiny rounds of red radish. Allow this decoration to set, and meanwhile prepare the cheese mixture. The cheese used should be dry and fight—two different kinds may be taken, a mixture of Gruyere and Parmesan is very good. Put the cheese into a basin and season it wdth cayenne and a little made mustard. Whip the remainder of the aspic jelly (which should be stiff) and the cream sepa- rately, and mix them lightly with the cheese, add- ing salt if necessary. When the mixture is beginning to set, fill up the little moulds and put them aside until cold and firm. Turn out when wanted, and serve garnished with small bunches of watercress, thinly sliced radishes, and some chopped aspic jelly. 2274. Potted Cheese 6 oz. cheese. 1 oz. butter. Cayenne pepper. A pinch of mace. | tea-sp. made mustard. Any scraps of good potting; it is a good Remove the rind and pieces, which will make 1 table-sp. white wine. 1 tea-sp. Worcester sauce. Clarified butter. cheese may be taken for way of using up remains, either chop or grate the the pounding easier. Then