EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 319 sausage meat with a little more pepper and salt, and divide it in four equal portions. Wrap one portion round each egg, keeping the shape of the egg as much as possible, and using a little flour to prevent it sticking to the hands. Then coat the eggs-with beaten egg and fine white bread-crumbs, Eressing^the-ewughs well on. Fry them slowly in oiling fat until a golden brown colour. Unless the Scotch Eggs coating of sausage meat is thin and the eggs are fried slowly the pork will not be sufficiently cooked. When ready, cut the eggs in halves crosswise, and cut a small piece oS the ends to make them stand. Stand each half on a round crohton of bread, place them on a hot dish, and pour brown or tomato sauce round. Garnish with small sprigs of parsley. Probable cost, Is. 1341. Scotch Eggs, 2 3 hard-boiled eggs. Seasoning. 4 to 6 oz. sausage meat. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and spread the flat side with sausage meat, season- ing with pepper and salt, and dusting them lightly with a little flour. Then egg and bread-crumb the eggs, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Drain well, and dish on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Serve hot, with or without gravy. Probable cost, 9d. 1342. Stuffed Eggs with Cheese ((Eufs Farcls au Fromage) 6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. white sauce or cream. Salt. Pepper. - A pinch of nutmeg. A few browned bread- crumbs. 1 table-sp. melted butter 1 doz. round croutes of fried bread. Shell the eggs and cut them in halves cross- wise. Slice off a little piece from the rounded end of each to enable them to stand, then take out the yolks and pass them through a wire sieve. Put the sieved yolks into a basin, and add to them the butter melted, cream or sauce, the grated cheese, and seasonings. Mix well, and fill the hollow of each half-egg with this mixture. Arrange it in a manner to imitate the yolk, and sprinkle them lightly with browned bread-crumbs. Place each half-egg on a small round croute of fried bread, sprinkle a little melted butter over each. and place them in the oven long enough to heat through. If preferred, a little sauce may be poured on the dish in which the eggs are served. Note.—There are many variations of this dish, as any nice savoury ingredient may be used instead of the cheese, such as chopped tongue, game, truffles, mushrooms, &c., or a tasty paste such as anchovy, shrimp, bloater, &c. The follow- ing recipes will give an idea of what can be done. Probable cost. Is. 1343. Stuffed Eggs with Game (CEufs Farcis au Gibier) Proceed as in last recipe, using 2 table-spoonfuls grated or chopped cooked game instead of the grated cheese, and good brown sauce instead of the white sauce. Pour a little strong stock od melted glaze round the dish after removing it from the oven. 1344. Stuffed Eggs with Nuts Proceed as in Recipe 1342, using 2 table-spoonfuls grated or chopped nuts instead of the grated cheese. Sprinkle the eggs with grated nuts instead of bread-crumbs, and place them on a bed of pur6e of spinach or potato instead of crofitons of bread. 1345. Stuffed Eggs with Salmon (CEufs Farcls au Saumon) Proceed as in Recipe 1342, using 2 table-spoonfuls cooked salmon finely chopped instead of the grated cheese. Pour a little good fish sauce into the dish before placing in the stuffed eggs, and omit the croutons. 1346. Stuffed Eggs, Fried Stuff the eggs according to any of the above recipes, and roll them in a very little flour to dry them. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. 1347. Stuffed Eggs with Artichokes (CEufs Farcis aux Artichauts) 1 doz. eggs. 8 artichoke bottoms. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. \ pt. white sauce. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread- crumbs. Hard-boil the eggs and leave them in cold water until they are wanted. Then shell them, and with a small round cutter cut away a small piece of the white from the side of each, just large enough to allow the yolk to pass. Pound the yolks in a mortar with half the butter and two of the artichoke bottoms. Seasoning to taste, and rub through a fine sieve. A little chopped truffle may now be added if wished. Now fill the eggs with this mixture, rounding it smoothly on the top. Saute the remaining artichoke bottoms in a small quantity of butter, and place them on a fireproof dish. Place an egg on the top of each, being careful that it lies steadily, cutting away a piece of the arti- choke or egg, if necessary. Sprinkle the eggs with a little grated cheese, and mask them with some thick white or bechamel sauce. Sprinkle more cheese and a few bread-crumbs on the top, lay on