518 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD from some cooked sausages and cut them in halves or quarters according to size. Cover these pieces with the potato mixture, forming them into neat little rolls with a little flour. Then egg and bread- crumb the rolls, and fry them in boiling fat, or bake them in a quick oven until nicely browned. Serve garnished with parsley. 2430. Potato and Tomato Savoury 1 lb. boiled or steamed potatoes. 1 tea-cupful white sauce 1 tea-cupful tomato puree. 1 lb. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Waxy potatoes are best for this dish ; in any case they should not be overcooked. Cut them in slices, and season them with pepper and salt. The tomato pur4e may be made either from tinned or from cooked fresh tomatoes by rubbing some through a fine wire sieve. Keep the puree as thick as possible; do not use too much of the liquid from the tomatoes. Add this puree to a cupful of good white sauce, and heat them together over the fire. Then grease a pie dish or deep fireproof dish, and put a layer of the sliced potato at the bottom of it. Sprinkle this with grated cheese, and pour some of the sauce over. Then put in more potatoes and repeat until all is in. The last layer should be sauce. Cover with bread-crumbs, and put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. 2431. Sausage and Leeks 6 or 7 large leeks. f 3 gills stock. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. flour. ' 1 lb. liver sausage. Prepare and wash the leeks (see Recipe 505), and cut them in short lengths. Throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil for 5 minutes and drain. Then return the leeks to the saucepan with the butter and seasoning, and shake over the fire a few minutes. Mix in the flour and then the stock, and stir until boiling. Now add the liver sausage, which can be bought in any German ware- house, put the lid on the pan, and stew all slowly by the side of the fire. To serve, arrange the leeks neatly in the centre of a hot dish, and garnish with the sausage cut in slices. Time to cook, £ to | hour. 2432. Sausage Toast Cooked sausages. Brown or tomato sauce. Toast Take the remains of any cooked sausages, remove the skin, and cut them in slices. Put into a sauce- pan or frying pan enough brown, tomato, or other good savoury sauce to moisten the pieces of sausage. When thoroughly hot, put in the sausage, allow it to simmer a few minutes, add more seasoning if necessary, and then serve neatly on well-made toast cut in fingers. A little chopped parsley may be sprinkled on the top. 2433. Semolina Cakes 3 oz. semolina. 1 pt. milk or broth. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. £ tea-sp. made mustard. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Use either milk or some light stock or broth, or half of each may be taken. Put it into a saucepan with the butter, and bring it to the boil. Sprinkle in the semolina and let it cook until it swells and thickens, about 15 minutes. Stir the mixture occasionally and, when soft and thick, remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the grated cheese and seasoning. Spread the mixture on a plate and let it cool. Then form it into small round cakes, using a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb these, and then fry them in boiling fat until a golden brown. Drain, and serve piled up on a hot dish and garnished with parsley. 2434. Sheep’s Tongues au Gratin 2 cooked sheep’s tongues J pt. white sauce. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 table-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 slices hot buttered toast. The tongues must be well cooked and tender. Remove all skin and gristle from them, and cut them into tiny dice. Have ready J pint of good white sauce, heat the pieces of tongue in it, add the yolks of egg, seasoning, and most of the cheese, and make all thoroughly hot. Cut the toast in neat pieces, put some of the mixture on each, sprinkle with the remaining cheese, and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill. Serve at once, garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2435. Swiss Fondue 4 eggs. 2 oz. Gruyere cheese. 1 oz. butter. A little made mustard. Plain biscuits or thin toast. Pepper and salt. Beat the eggs in a saucepan, add the cheese grated and the butter. Season highly, and stir over the fire until the mixture is soft and creamy. Serve very hot on toasted biscuits, or fingers of thin toast. Note.—White wine should be served with this savoury. 2436. Tomato Rarebit 1 gill tomato pur6e. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. butter. 3 oz. grated cheese. Pepper. Salt. \ tea-sp. made mustard. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A pinch carbonate of soda. Hot buttered toast. A little chopped parsley. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, then pour on the milk, and stir until boiling. Now add the tomato puree, which has been made by rubbing some tinned or fresh tomatoes through a fine sieve. Add also the grated cheese, seasonings and soda, and mix all together. Lastly, add the