COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 348 Btock slightly melted, poured in by means of a filler placed in one of the holes on the top. Set aside until next day, then turn out of the tin, and serve cold, cut in slices and garnished with parsley or cress. 1488. Cold Meat Roly-poly \ lb. cooked meat. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. § tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 1 or 2 table-sps. sauce or gravy. Suet crust. Use well-flavoured meat end mix with it, if possible, a little cooked ham or tongue to give it a good flavour. Mince the meat finely, add to it the finely chopped onion, parsley, and powdered herbs. Mix well, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with the ketchup and a little tasty sauce or gravy. Do not make the mixture too liquid. Now make a roly-poly according to directions given in Recipe 1790, using the above meat mixture instead of jam, and either boil or bake. Serve brown sauce or gravy separately. Time to boil, 3 hours. Time to bake, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. 1489. Roman Pie 6 oz. cooked meat. 3 oz. cooked macaroni. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 gill white sauce or cream. 1 parboiled onion. 1 tea-sp. made mustard. Salt, pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. crushed ver- micelli. 1 gill brown or tomato sauce. Some plain pastry. To Prepare the Mixture.—White meat, such as rabbit, chicken, or veal is the best to use for this kind of pie, and a small proportion of ham or tongue may be mixed with it. Remove from it all skin, bone, and gristle, and chop it finely or put it through the mincing machine. Put the minced meat into a basin and add to it the macaroni cut in small pieces, the onion finely chopped, and the grated cheese. Season rather highly with pepper, salt, and mustard, and moisten with the white sauce or cream. To Make the Pie.—Take a plain mould or basin (to hold 1 pint or a little over) and grease it care- fully with butter of dripping. Put in the crushed vermicelli and coat the sides of the basin with it. Then fine the basin with some plain pastry rolled out thinly. Fill up with the meat mixture and cover with a round of pastry, wetting the two edges and pressing them together. Make a small hole in the top of the pie, and place it on a baking sheet. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is browned and well cooked. When ready, remove the pie from the oven, allow it to stand a few minutes, and turn out carefully on a hot dish. Heat some brown or tomato sauce and pour it round. Note.—-Bread-crumbs may be used instead of vermicelli, and the onion may be omitted. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1490. Sea Pie 1 lb. stewing beef. | 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 1 large carrot. Salt, pepper. 2 onions. Warm water. | Suet crust. Wipe and trim the meat, removing any skin and sinew, and cut it into small neat pieces. Prepare the carrot and onions and cut them both in very thin slices. (The onion may first be scalded if liked.) Take rather a shallow stewpan and lay into it first a layer of the vegetables, then the meat and the remainder of the vegetables on the top. Season well with pepper and salt, cover with warm water or meat boilings, and add the ketchup. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for \ hour. Meanwhile prepare the suet pastry, using the quantities given in Recipe 1441, and roll it out in a round the size of the saucepan lid. Lay this on the top of the meat and continue the stewing until the meat is quite tender, and the vegetables and pastry well cooked. Care must be taken that the ingredients underneath the pastry do not become too dry. The crust should be loosened from the sides of the saucepan occasion- ally, and more liquid added if necessary. When sufficiently cooked, cut the pastry across into about eight pieces. Lift out the meat and vegetables and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Place the pastry in a round on the top and garnish with a few of the pieces of carrot. Time to cook, 2 to 2\ hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 1491. Cheese Tart 1 oz. butter. 1J oz. flour. 1 gill milk. £ lb. grated cheese. (Fleur de Fromage) Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Some plain pastry. First prepare the tart or case of pastry. Take a plain or fluted ring about 7 inches in diameter and about 1 inch in depth. Grease it and lay it on a baking tin with a piece of greased paper below it. Now roll out some rather plain pastry to about \ inch in thickness, and line the tin within the ring with this. Press it well into the sides of the ring so as to form a neat case. Trim round the edges with a pair of scissors, allowing the pastry to stand a little way above the tin. Mark or flute round the edges and prick the pastry at the foot to prevent it rising in the baking. Now line the case with a piece of greased paper and fill it up with haricot beans or rice. Bake in a good moderate oven until the pastry is crisp and of a light, brown colour. Meanwhile prepare the mixture. Make a panada or thick sauce with the butter, flour, and milk, and cook it thoroughly. Add the grated cheese, cream, and egg well beaten, season to taste and mix thoroughly. Remove the paper and beans from the case, and lift off the ring ; fill up with the cheese mixture and bake again until the mixture is nicely browned and feels firm to the touch. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1492. Timbale a la Milanaise Raised pie crust. Re- | Macaroni & la Milan- cipe 1445. I aise. Recipe 1618. To Make the Timbale.—Grease a plain souffle tin from 1 to 1J pint in size. Roll out the raised