350 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Puff pastry. Cooked sweetbread. Cooked call’s tongue. Cooked calf’s or sheep’s brains. 1496. Vol-au-vent a la Supreme Smallpoached quenelles. Some button mush* rooms. Good brown or white sauce. Cut the sweetbread and tongue in slices and the brains into pieces. Take about an equal quantity of each, also of small quenelles (Recipe 1298), add some button mushrooms cut in halves, season to taste, moisten with some very good sauce, and Vol-au-vent make all thoroughly hot in a small saucepan. Make a vol-au-vent case according to directions given above, and fill it with this garnish. Note.—Stoned olives, artichoke bottoms cooked and cut in small pieces, prawns, and crayfish may be added to the mixture. 1497. Vol-au-vent of Fish (Vol-au-vent de Poisson) Sauce. 1£ oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill liquor from mussels. \ gill liquor from mush- rooms. 1 gill white wine. 1 gill cream. Fish stock. Seasoning. Puff pastry (£- lb.). Mixture. 1 doz. small fish quenelles. 4 to 6 oz. cooked fish. 2 to 3 oz. cooked lobster. 1£ doz. cooked mussels. 6 button mushrooms. 2 or 3 truffles. Make a vol-au-vent case with puff pastry made of | lb. butter and f lb. flour according to directions given above. Fill it with the mixture given below, and serve either hot or cold. If the vol- au-vent is served cold, it may be garnished with a little chopped aspic jelly. Mixture for Filling.—Make some very small fish quenelles (Recipe 1300), shaping them in small tea- spoons or egg-spoons. Cook them and drain them on a cloth. Break the lobster in small pieces, also some nicely cooked fish, such as sole, turbot, brill, or salmon. Cook the mussels, removing the shells and the beards, and cut the mush- rooms and truffles in small pieces. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan with enough of the following sauce to cover them, and make thoroughly hot in a bain-marie. Sauce.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix together for two or three minutes. Add the mussel and mushroom liquor, the cream, and about 1 gill of fish stock. Stir over the fire until boiling, add the wine, seasoning to taste, and. if necessary, some more stock, but the sauce should be kept fairly thick. Sufficient for 6 to 8 persons. PATTIES AND SMALL SAVOURY PASTRIES 1498. Cold Meat Puffs 6 to 8 oz. cooked meat. 2 or 3 table-sps. good sauce. Seasoning. Rough-puff pastry or dripping crust. To Prepare the Meat.—Remove all skin and gristle from the meat and cut it in small pieces, or, if it is very scrappy, mince it. One or two different kinds of meat can be used together, such as veal and ham, beef and tongue, mutton and kidney, &e., and the puffs w'ill be all the more tasty. When the meat is prepared, moisten and bind it together with some good tasty sauce, such as brown, tomato, parsley, egg, curry, &c., and add more seasoning if necessary. To Make the Puffs.—Roll out some pastry rather thinly, and stamp it out into rounds -with a plain or fluted cutter 4 or 5 inches in diameter. Wet the edges of these rounds with cold water or beaten egg, and put some of the mixture in the centre of each. Double over, and press the edges well to- gether. Mark round the edges with the back of a fork or the end of a tea-spoon, and place the puff on a greased baking tin. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, or until the pastry is set and of a brown colour. When ready, remove them carefully from the tin, and serve hot, garnished with parsley or bunches of watercress. Any suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—Potato pastry may also be used fer these puffs. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 7 puffs. 1499. Cornish Pasties | lb. cooked meat. 2 or 3 cooked potatoes. 1 cooked onion. Pepper, salt. 2 table-sps. stock or gravy. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. Dripping crust. Any cooked meat may be used for these. Cut it in small pieces, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Chop the potato and onion, but not too small, and mix it with the meat. Season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and moisten with stock or gravy. Make some dripping crust (see Recipe 1440), and roll it out rather thinly. Stamp it out in rounds the size of a saucer, wet round the edges with cold water, and put a good spoonful of the meat mixture in the centre of each. Then raise up the edges of the pastry, press them together and flute them with the fingers. Place the pasties on a greased tin, brush them over with a little milk, and bake in a good oven until well cooked and nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 7 pasties. 1500. Chicken and Ham Rolls Same mixture as for Rough-puff or flaky chicken and ham pastry, croquettes. Make the mixture according to Recipe 1052, and turn it on to a plate to cool. Then form it into