416 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. When ready, cut the pudding in neat pieces, arrange them on a dish and sprinkle with sugar. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1847. Potato Pudding J lb. sieved potatoes. 1 gill milk. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 or 3 eggs. 1 lemon. | tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 2 table-sps. black cur- rant or raspberry jam. Put the sieved potato, sugar, salt, and grated lemon rind into a basin, boil the milk and butter, pour it over them and mix well together. Then stir in the yolks of the eggs and the strained juice of half the lemon. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in very lightly at the last along with the baking powder. Put the jam into a greased pie dish, pour the mixture on the top of it, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—The pie dish may be lined with pastry (see p. 409) before pouring in the mixture, if a more decorative-looking pudding is wanted. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1848. Queen of Puddings 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. 1 breakfast-cupful bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 oz. butter. A little flavouring. 2 table-sps. jam. 2 or 3 glace cherries. Put the bread-crumbs, butter, and ha lf the sugar into a basin, and add a little grated lemon rind or other flavouring. Bring the milk nearly to the boil in a small saucepan, pour it over the ingredients in the basin and let all soak for a few minutes. Then add the yolks of eggs, put the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a moderate oven until set. Remove the pudding from the oven and spread the top with jam. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stifl froth, fold in the remainder of the sugar, and pile on the top of the jam. Decorate with the cherries cut in small pieces, dredge with sugar, and return to the oven until crisp and lightly browned. Note.—If liked, the pie dish may be lined with pastry before putting in the pudding mixture (see p. 409). Time to bake, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1849. Baked Rice and Apple Pudding 1J pts. milk. 3 oz. whole rice. 2 table-sps. sugar Rind of 1 lemon. 1 lb. apples. 2 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. water. 2 table-sps. sugar. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil and pour off the water. Now add the milk and allow the rice to simmer slowly until quite soft and thick. Add the sugar and the grated rind of half a lemon, and then let the mixture cool. Peel and slice the apples, and stew them with the butter and the grated rind of half a lemon until they are soft and like a marmalade. Sweeten with two table-spoonfuls of sugar. Grease a plain pudding mould or basin, and coat it with brown sugar. Line it with the rice mixture, then fill it up with the apple marmalade and the remainder of the rice in alter- nate layers. Bake in a good oven until the sides are well browned, then turn out and serve with apricot, lemon, or any other suitable sauce. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, l.s. 1850. Rice and Orange-marmalade Pudding \ lb. rice. | pt. water. 1 quart milk. 4 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 3 eggs. 2 table-sps. marmalade. A pinch of salt. Wash the rice in several waters until quite clean, and then put it into a lined saucepan with half a pint fresh cold water. Bring to the boil, and pour the water off. Add the milk and butter, and simmer slowly until the rice is quite soft and thick. Stir well from time to time, or cook in a double saucepan. When ready, add the yolks of eggs and half the sugar. Pour the mixture into a .greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Then spread the top of the pudding rather thickly with mar- malade. Add a pinch of salt to the whites of eggs, and beat them up to a stifl froth. Sieve the re- mainder of the sugar over them, and pile this meringue over the marmalade. Return th e pudding to a moderate oven until the meringue is nicely browned and set, and sprinkle with sugar before serving. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10cf. 1851. Baked Roly-poly Make in the same way as Boiled Roly-poly (Recipe 1790). When ready, place it on a greased tin with the join downwards. Brush over with a little water, and sprinkle with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven from 1 to 1J hours, or until thoroughly cooked and nicely browned, Serve on a hot dish, with a dish paper under it, and sprinkle with sugar. 1852. St. Clare Pudding 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. \ pt. milk. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. 2 table-sps. macaroon or cake crumbs. 2 table-sps. jam. Some pastry. Line a lj-pint pie dish with pastry as directed on p. 409, then prepare the mixture. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix it in smoothly. Pour in the milk, stir until boiling, and cook four or five minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add one table- spoonful sugar, a pinch of salt, a little flavouring, and the yolks of eggs. Beat well together. Put the jam into the prepared pie dish, and sprinkle the crumbs on the top. Pour over the mixture from the saucepan, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and set. Then make a meringue with the whites of eggs and sugar, pile it on the top of the pudding and return to a cool oven until delicately browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot.