COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 134 fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain on paper and serve piled up on a hot dish and garnished with parsley, or use as a garnish for another dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 425. Brussels Sprouts with Rice (Choux de Bruxelles au Riz) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. I 1 tea-cupful of rice. 1 pt. stock. I Seasoning. Prepare the sprouts as directed in Recipe 422, throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, let them boil from 7 to 10 minutes and then drain. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the stock and cook for 10 minutes. Then add the sprouts and seasoning and simmer all together from 15 to 20 minutes until both rice and sprouts are tender. Serve in a hot vegetable dish. Time to cook, \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 426. Brussels Sprouts au Gratin (Choux de Bruxelles au Gratin) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill white sauce. 2 oz. grated cheese Seasoning. A potato border. Prepare and cook the Brussels sprouts as directed in Recipe 422, without making them too soft. Drain them well, then saute them in hot butter, seasoning with pepper and salt. Arrange a nice border of potatoes (see Recipe 543) on a greased fireproof dish and put the Brussels sprouts in the centre. Add most of the cheese to the white sauce, season well and make all thoroughly hot. Pour this sauce over the sprouts only, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over and place in the oven until well browned. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. The Cabbage (Le Chou) This is one of the most popular and most useful of vegetables, as it can be obtained all the year round and is generally very moderate in price. There are many varieties of the cabbage plant, the savoy, curly greens, red cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, kohl-rabi, and Brussels sprouts, which are all pro- duced by selection and cultivation from the wild Cabbage easy of digestion on account of its fibrous nature. When the strong taste is objected to, the cabbage should be scalded in boiling water for a few minutes, strained and rinsed in cold water before the actual cooking is commenced. 427. Cabbages with Butter (Choux au Beurre) 1 or 2 cabbages. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. To Prepare the Cabbages.—Trim them carefully, removing the outside leaves and any discoloured parts. Cut them in halves or quarters according to size and remove the hard piece of stalk from the inside. Then wash in plenty of cold water, soak for h hour in cold water, to which a few drops of vinegar have been added to draw out any slugs, and rinse again in fresh cold water. To Cook the Cabbages.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling salted water—1 dessert-spoonful salt to 1 quart of water is the proportion to allow— plunge the cabbage into this and boil quickly with the lid ofi the pan until the cabbage is tender. Be careful to remove any scum that may rise. When ready, drain well and press out as much of the water as possible. If the cabbage is very young it may bo steamed. Place the prepared cabbage in a steamer, sprinkle it with a little salt and steam until tender. To Finish.—Place the cabbage in a hot vegetable dish and score it across with a knife. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add a pinch of pepper and more salt if necessary and porn; over the hot cabbage. A little grated nutmeg or a squeeze of lemon juice may be sprinkled over the cabbage. Note.—If the strong flavour of a cabbage is ob- jected to, especially in a cabbage that is not young, it should be scalded before cooking. After it is prepared, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil quickly for 10 minutes. Then drain, rinse with cold water, press out the water, and proceed to cook as required. Time to boil, 20 to 40 minutes. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 428. Stewed Cabbage 2 cabbages. 1 oz. butter. I A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. flour. | § pt. milk. Pepper, salt. Prepare the cabbages as in last recipe, and steam or boil them until nearly tender. Then let them drain a few minutes and cut them in fine shreds. (This should measure two cupfuls.) Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the cabbage, and add the flour gradually, stirring all the time. Add the milk, stir until boiling and season to taste. Now stand the saucepan containing the cabbage in another sauce- pan of hot water, let it remain from 15 to 20 minutes and then serve very hot. Note.—A little cream would be an improvement to this dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. cabbage or colewort. To have a cabbage in per- fection it should be young and freshly cut; this is beyond comparison better than one that has lain packed up for any length of time. The cabbage is valuable on account of its mineral properties and its purifying action on the blood, but it is not always 429. Baked Cabbage 2 cupfuis cooked cabbage. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Icupfulmilk. Salt,pepper. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. A little butter. Take the remains of well-cooked cabbage and chop them finely, removing any hard portions. Put