COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 290 the pepper and salt, and spread this paste over the drumsticks before grilling them. 1186. Turkey Legs, Devilled, 2 (Dinde a la Diable) J tea-sp. curry powder. 1 oz. butter. A few browned bread- crumbs. 2 turkey legs. 1 tea-sp. English mustard £ tea-sp. French mustard Cayenne pepper. Salt. Chop off the ends of the bones and trim the legs neatly. Then score them several times both along and across and fairly deeply, and dip them into melted butter or salad oil. Mix the two lands of mustard together with the curry powder, cayenne pepper, and salt. Spread this mixture over the legs, pressing it into the cuts, and let them stand a short time before cooking. W hen ready, sprinkle with fine browned bread-crumbs and broil over a good fire until nicely browned, basting them now ind again with a little more melted butter. Serve very hot. A piquante sauce may be served separ- ately if desired. Note.—The devil mixture may be made more or less hot according to taste. The French mus- tard may be omitted and a little chutney used instead of the curry powder. Time to grill, 7 or 8 minutes. put them into a saucepan along with any scraps and gravy ; cover with cold water and bring slowly to the boil. Put in a bunch of herbs, a carrot cut in pieces and an onion stuck with cloves, and boil at least 1 hour. Then strain and remove all greaso from the top of the stock. Now melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it until hghtly browned. Stir in the flour and brown that also. Then add by degrees 1 pint of the turkey stock, season with pepper and salt and stir until boiling. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly for 10 minutes or until the onion is cooked. Skim if necessary, put in the turkey meat, add the wine and heat all slowly without boiling. When the meat is hot through and thoroughly saturated with the 'sauce, the ragout is ready. Serve garnished with small forcemeat balls (Recipe 1290), or with rolls of bacon. PART II RABBITS, HARES, AND VENISON TO CHOOSE HARES AND RABBITS 1187. Jellied Turkey 1 lb. cold turkey meat. 1 qrt. turkey stock. 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill French vinegar. 2 oz. gelatine. Seasoning A few pistachio nuts. Take the remains of some cold turkey and re- move all the flesh from the bones. Trim away any skin and gristle from the meat and mince it very finely, or put it through the mincing machine. Then weigh 1 lb. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan along with any trimmings and skin. Cover these with cold water, and when they come to the boil add some flavouring vege- tables, and simmer all together at least 1 hour. Then strain, and if necessary reduce to 1 quart. Add to this quart of stock, 2 oz. gelatine cut in pieces, the vinegar, and whites of eggs slightly beaten. Whisk over the fire until boiling and then strain like jelly. Now take two-thirds of this strained stock and put it into a clean saucepan with the minced turkey meat; simmer the two together for a few minutes, add some shred pis- tachio nuts, pour into a wet mould and set aside until cold. Cool also the remainder of the jelly stock which was not used with the meat. When required, unmould the jellied turkey, chop the reserved jelly, and put it round. Serve with salad. Note.—The pistachio nuts may be omitted, and small sections of hard-boiled egg may be added. 1188. Turkey Ragout Cold turkey. A bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 1 carrot. 2 or 3 cloves. Cold water. oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. flour. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. sherry or Marsala. Forcemeat balls. Take the remains of some cold cooked turkey, cut the flesh into small neat pieces free from skin and bone and weigh about 1 lb. Chop up the bones and When hares and rabbits are young the claws arc smooth, sharp, and pointed, the cleft in the jaws is narrow, the teeth small and white, and the ears soft and easily torn. The small nut under the paw should also be well developed. As the animal ages, the claws become rounded and rough, the cleft in the jaw deepens the front teeth become long and yellow, the ears tough and dry, and the little nut under the paw disappears. Rabbits, like poultry, should be used fresh. Choose one that is plump and short-necked, and with the flesh stiff and fresh, and without discoloration. Wild rabbits are generally preferred to tame ones, as they are considered to have a better flavour. The flesh of the tame rabbit is, however, whiter and more delicate. When a hare is required for roasting, choose a leveret, a young hare under a year old, as it will be more tender. An older animal is better for making soup or for jugged hare. For the keeping of hares and rabbits see under Larder (p. 31). To Paunch and Skin a Rabbit A rabbit should be paunched as soon as killed. Make a slit underneath and carefully remove the stomach and all the intestines, which must all be thrown away. Be particular to remove the piece of intestine which lies close to the tail and also any discoloured part. The rabbit should then be well wiped inside and hung up, if it is not required at once. To remove the skin : First chop off the ears, and the legs at the first joint. Then begin loosening the skin at the sides of the opening and draw it away from the flesh towards the hind- legs. Turn the skin of the legs inside out and pull it right off. Now draw the skin off the body and towards the shoulders, and skin the fore-legs in the same way. Remove the skin from the head very carefully, using the point of a sharp knife, and take out the eyes.