519 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES egg, well beaten, yolk and white together, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, but without allowing the mixture to boil again. Have ready some neat pieces of hot buttered toast, pour the tomato and cheese mixture over them, sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 2437. Tomatoes & la Rggence 2 large tomatoes. 4 small rounds of hot buttered toast. 2 eggs. £ oz. butter. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. Seasoning. Chopped parsley. Choose large, firm tomatoes as round in shape as possible. Wipe them, remove the stalk, and cut them in two crosswise, i.e. from side to side. Squeeze out the soft watery part from the inside, place them on a greased tin, season with pepper and salt, and bak& in a moderate oven until tender, but not broken. Scramble the eggs with the butter, cream, and seasoning as directed in Recipe 1325, and put a little into each half tomato, piling it rather high. Place them on neat rounds of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with a little chopped parsley, and serve hot. 2438. Tomatoes with Rice 6 tomatoes. 2 table-sps. cooked rice. 2 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. mayonnaise sauce. Seasoning. Gherkin. Choose firm, ripe, and medium-sized tomatoes, cut off the top of each, and scoop out some of the Tomatoes with Rice inside without breaking them. Season with pepper and salt, and turn them upside down to drain. The rice should be boiled dry as for curry, mix with it the chopped ham, moisten with some of the mayonnaise sauce and add more seasoning if neces- sary. Put some of this mixture into each tomato, smooth over, coat with a little more sauce, and finish with a small round of gherkin or other green pickle on the top. Serve very cold, garnished with a little parsley or green salad. 2439. Scotch Woodcock 2 slices hot buttered toast. Anchovy butter. Sauce. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 or 4 table-sps. cream. 1 tea-sp.choppedparsley Seasoning. Make two good slices of toast, butter them hot, and trim off the crusts. Spread one piece thickly with anchovy butter (Recipe 760), lay the other piece on the top, and press lightly together. Then cut them in neat square pieces or small fingers, arrange them neatly on a dish, and keep them warm. To Make the Sauce.—Put all the ingredients into a basin, and season them to taste. Stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and stir over the fire until the sauce thickens. Pour over the toast, and serve very hot. 2440. Welsh Rarebit £ lb. Cheddar cheese. 2 table-sps. milk or beer. A pinch of cayenne. £ tea-sp. made mustard. A little butter. 1 or 2 slices hot buttered toast. Grate the cheese or shred it finely. Place it in a saucepan with the milk or beer and seasonings, and stir over the fire until the mixture is perfectly smooth and beginning to thicken. Butter the toast, cut it into neat pieces, place it on a hot dish, and pour the cheese mixture over it. Everything must be very hot, and it must be served at once, because the cheese quickly hardens. Notes.—One or two yolks of eggs are sometimes added just before serving. The egg makes it richer, and prevents the cheese hardening so quickly. Any rich cheese may be used, but it must be mild in flavour.