COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 524 flavoured paste is used, such as anchovy, a smaller proportion will be sufficient. The mixture must be delicate in flavour and of a nice smooth con- sistency. Spread this on thin slices of brown bread from which the crust has been removed, and then roll up the pieces. If white bread is preferred, the round sandwich loaf makes a very pretty shape. 2468. Salmon Sandwiches 2 or 3 table-sps. cooked salmon. 1 dessert-sp. mayonnaise or white sauce. Seasoning. Cucumber or small cress. Small rolls. Butter. Free the salmon from any skin and hone, and break it up in a basin with a fork. Moisten it with a little mayonnaise or good white sauce and season to taste. If white sauce is used, it will be better to add a few drops of vinegar or lemon juice. Butter some small finger-shaped rolls, put into each some of the salmon mixture, lay some thinly-sliced cucumber or a little small cress on the top, and put on the covers. Small cress or parsley may be used for garnishing. 2469. Shrimp Sandwiches 2 table - sps. picked shrimps. 1 tea-sp. anchovy paste. 1 or 2 table-sps. whipped cream. Small rolls. Butter. Small cress. Chop the shrimps, and mix them with the anchovy paste and a dash of cayenne pepper. Then stir in very lightly 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of stiffly whipped cream. Split some little finger- shaped rolls, and spread them with butter; then fill them with the above mixture, and serve garnished with small cress or some fresh parsley. 2470. Sardine and Cucumber Sandwiches Sardine paste. f Brown or white bread Cucumber. Seasoning. | and butter. Spread thin slices of brown or white bread and butter with a layer of sardine paste, which can be bought in jars or small tins. On half the number of pieces put a layer of thinly-sliced cucumber which has been seasoned with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. Cover with the remaining pieces of bread, press together, trim and cut into neat sandwiches. Serve garnished with watercress or parsley. Note.—Sardines may be used instead of the paste. They will require to be skinned, boned, pounded with a little butter, and rubbed through a sieve. 2471. Smoked Haddock Sandwiches Make in the same way as Bloater Sandwiches (Recipe 2445), substituting smoked haddock for bloater. 2472. Tomato Sandwiches 1 or 2 ripe tomatoes. I Seasoning. 1 gherkin. | Bread and butter. Skin the tomatoes and cut them in very thin slices. Put the slices on a plate and season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a few drops of oil and lemon juice. Arrange the tomato on the top of some thin bread and butter, sprinkle a little chopped gherkin or pickle over, and put another piece of bread and butter on the top. Trim, and cut in shape. Note.—A little thick mayonnaise sauce may be spread over the sliced tomato if liked. 2473. Tongue Sandwiches Make in the same way as Ham Sandwiches, Recipe 3460. 2474. Veal and Pickle Sandwiches Cooked veal. Pickles. Bread and butter. Chop some cooked veal finely, and mix it with chopped pickles; gherkin, cauliflower, or a little pickled walnut may T>e used, and enough to flavour the veal. Add salt if necessary, and, if at hand, a very small quantity of mayonnaise sauce. Spread this mixture between slices of white or brown bread and butter, trim neatly, and cut in convenient-sized sandwiches. Garnish with parsley or small cress. Note.—Other kinds of meat may be used instead of the veal. 2475. Savoury Walnuts. Malted bread and butter. Walnut Sandwiches Mayonnaise sauce cream. Salt. Cayenne. or Toast a few walnuts in the oven, then rub them to get rid of the skins, and chop them rather finely.