564 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Note.—The fruit may be varied according to taste, and a little spice may be added. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2690. Crullers | lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of nutmeg. The grated rind of £ lemon. v Sieve the flour, sugar, baking powder, and nut- meg into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until quite free from lumps. Add the grated lemon rind or any other flavouring preferred, and bind the mixture with two eggs well beaten. Turn the dough on to a floured board, and work with the hands until free from cracks. Roll out to about § inch in thickness, and cut into fancy shapes, or make into twists. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling fat, drop the crullers into this, a few at a time, and cook slowly until they are a nice brown colour, and have swelled to double their original size. When the crullers are ready, lift them out of the fat with a perforated spoon, drain them on kitchen paper, and dredge well with sugar. These should be used while fresh. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2691. Currant Buns 1 lb. flour. £ oz. yeast. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 egg. Milk (about £ pt.). £ lb. currants or £ lb. sultanas. 2 oz. candied peel. A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, and make a well in the centre. Put the yeast into a smaller basin, and mix it with one teaspoonful sugar. Then melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and when this is lukewarm, pour it on to the yeast. Mix together, and strain into the midst of the flour. Beat all together until smooth, then cover the basin, and set it in a warm place about 2 hours. When the dough is well risen, add the remainder of the sugar, the fruit, and egg well beaten. Knead thoroughly, and beat until the dough no longer sticks to the basin. Porm into small buns with a little flour, and place them on a greased and floured tin. Set again to rise about half an hour, then bake in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. Brush the buns over with sugar and milk just before removing them from the oven. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, lOd 2692. Currant Rock Cakes £ lb. flour. 2 or 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. butter or lard. 2 oz. currants. Grated rind of £ lemon, 1 oz. candied peel. 1 egg. A little milk. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter or lard with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Prepare the currants and candied peel (see p. 551), and add them with the grated lemon rind or any other flavouring preferred. Mix all these dry ingredients together, and then make a well in the centre with a wooden spoon. Beat up the egg until light and frothy, and add it with enough milk to make a stiffish paste. The mixture must be stifl enough for the spoon to stand upright in it. Place small heaps of this mixture on a greased and floured baking sheet, taking care to form them a little distance apart, as they spread somewhat while cooking. Roughen them over with a fork, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a good oven until the cakes are nicely browned and feel dry, when tested with a skewer. Note.—If liked, a quarter of a pound of ground rice, and a quarter of a pound of ordinary flour may be used instead of half a pound of flour. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. 2693. Dough Nuts, 1 £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 egg. A little milk. Some jam. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Beat the egg, and add it with enough milk to form all into a smooth dough. Turn out on a floured board, knead slightly, and roll out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp out rounds with a cutter about three inches in diameter. Put a small teaspoonful of red jam in the centre of half of these, and brush over the others with a beaten egg. Place two together, one with jam and the other without, and press the edges well where they join. Fry these, a few at a time, in boiling fat, allowing them to cook until they are about double their original size, and are nicely browned. Lift out, drain on paper, and sprinkle well with sugar, or with sugar and ground cinnamon mixed. Dough nuts should be used when they are quite fresh. Note.—Care must be taken to have the fat sufficiently hot : it should be quite still, and a blue smoke should be seen rising from it. Allow the fat to reheat before putting in a second lot of dough nuts. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. Another Way Make the same way as above, making the dough fairly firm. Divide into eight equal-sized pieces, roll them into balls, then make a hole with the finger and put a small tea-spoonful of jam into the centre of each. Seal it up and fry as in last recipe. 2694. Dough Nuts, 2 (With Yeast) 1 lb. flour. 1 oz. German yeast. 1| gills of sweet milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 3 oz. butter. 1 oz. sugar. Some jam. Sieve the flour into a good-sized basin, add a pinch of salt, and make a well in the centre. Put the yeast and sugar into a smaller basin,'and mix them together with a teaspoon until of a creamy consistency. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk, and, when lukewarm, pour over the yeast, and strain into the centre of the flour. Add the eggs, yolks and whites, well beaten, and mix from the centre outwards, forming a nice light dough. Beat with the hands from 10 to 15 minutes, then cover the basin with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise from 1J to 2 hours. When