INVALID COOKERY 541 stir them in as lightly as possible to the other mix- ture. Pour all into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven about 15 minutes. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve it as soon as taken from the oven. Time to cook,15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2572. Rice Cream 1 tea-cupful cooked rice. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. Sugar to taste. 1 tea-sp. sherry or other flavouring. Take some rice that has been well cooked in milk (the remains of a rice pudding will do), sweeten to taste, and add the flavouring. Then stir in some whipped cream very lightly and serve it cold, piled up on a little fancy plate. Stewed fruit may be served separately if wished. 2573. Rusk Pudding 1 or two rusks (un- I 1 gill of milk. 1 egg. sweetened). I 1 tea-sp. sugar. Grease a small pie dish, and half fill it with broken rusks. Beat up the egg in a small basin with a fork, add the sugar and milk to it, and beat again. Strain this over the rusk in the pie dish, covering it well. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and allow the pudding to stand for 10 minutes, until the rusk is thoroughly soaked. Bake in a moderate oven until firm and nicely browned. Serve hot, with a little cream if liked. This makes an ex- ceedingly light and simple pudding. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 2M. 2574. Savoury Custard (Steamed) 1 egg. \ gill beef tea. Break the egg into a small basin or cup, remove the speck from it, and beat up with a fork. Add to it the beef tea, hot or cold, and more seasoning if necessary. Mix well together, and pour into a well-greased cup or basin. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top, and steam very gently, until it is firm to the touch. If steamed too quickly, it will be full of little holes. Let it stand for a minute or two before turning out, and serve hot or cold. This may be baked instead of steamed, and a good meat stock used instead of beef-tea. Time to steam, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2575. A Simple Cream 1 gill cream. 1 gill milk. I Flavouring. A little sugar. I J oz. Isinglass. Put the milk and isinglass into a small lined saucepan, and add some flavouring, a little thinly- peeled lemon rind, a bay-leaf, or a small piece of vanilla pod. Place the saucepan at the side of the fire, and allow it to remain until the milk is flavoured and the isinglass dissolved. Stir occasionally with a wooden spoon. Then strain into a basin. Add the cream, sweeten to taste, and stir now and again until nearly cold, as this will prevent the cream resting on the top. Pour into a wetted mould and place in a cool place until set. Turn out when required. A little red-currant, apple, or other jelly may be served separately. Probable cost, 6d. 2576. Bran Jelly 1 cupful bran. 2 cupfuls water. Juice of £ lemon. Put the bran and water into a covered jar, and cook slowly in the oven for 4 or 5 hours. Then strain, pressing the bran well, and add the lemon juice. Pour into a clean dish and set aside to cool. Note.—A sour apple, peeled and cut in small pieces, may be cooked with the bran. The lemon juice would not then be required. 2577. Bread Jelly 1 slice of bread. | 1 tea-sp. sugar. | pt. cold water. [ 1 table-sp. cream. Toast the bread on both sides until dry and brown. Cut off the crusts, and break it into small pieces. Put it into a small lined saucepan with the cold water, and let it simmer over the fire until it becomes a jelly, adding more water if necessary. When cooked sufficiently, stir in a table-spoonful of cream or milk, and sweeten and flavour to taste with lemon or nutmeg. Serve hot or cold. Note.—A yolk of egg may be used instead of milk or cream, and wine or brandy added if required. 2578. Egg Jelly 2 lemons. 2 eggs. I i oz. gelatine. | pt. water. | 2 oz. sugar. Wash the lemons, peel ofi the yellow rind very thinly and put it into a saucepan with the water, gelatine, and sugar. Simmer by the side of the fire until the gelatine is melted and some flavour extracted from the rind, stirring occasionally to pre- vent the gelatine sticking to the saucepan. Beat up the eggs in a basin and pour the gelatine, &c., slowly on to them, stirring all the time. Add the lemon juice and strain through muslin. Then set aside to cool. Note.—A little wine or brandy is sometimes added to this jelly. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. 2579. Farinaceous Jelly 1 oz. pearl barley. 1 oz. whole rice. 1 oz. small sago. 2 pts. cold water. 1 oz. sugar. Rind and juice of | a lemon. Wash and blanch the barley, by putting it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, pour the water off, and then rinse it. Rinse out the saucepan, and return the barley to it, with the rice and sago both well washed. Pour on the cold water, and add the thinly peeled rind of half a lemon. Simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, skim- ming when necessary; then strain, and add the lemon juice and sugar. When cold, this will be a jelly, and very nourishing and refreshing. A little cream may be served with it. It can also be served hot as a drink. 2580. Irish Moss Jelly 1 oz. Irish moss. [ Lemon juice. 1 qt. cold water. | Sugar. Make in the same way as Irish Moss Drink (Recipo 2610), using a smaller proportion of water. Pour