165 VEGETABLES AND SALADS 576. Sweet Potatoes with Cream 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. 1 lb. cooked sweet pota- toes. 2 oz. butter. 1 gill thin cream. Melt the butter in an earthenware casserole, stir in the flour and mix well. Then add the cream and parsley and stir until boiling. Add the potatoes cut in slices and let all become thoroughly hot. Season to taste and serve in the casserole. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 577. Sweet Potato Pie 1 lb. cooked sweet pota- toes. | pint white sauce. 2 table-sps. crumbs. 1 oz. britter. browned Cut the potatoes in slices and arrange them in a freased pie-dish in layers with the white sauce. prinkle the crumbs over and place the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Tomatoes (Tomates) The tomato or love-apple is strictly speaking a fruit and not a vegetable, but as it appears on our tables in place of a vegetable, it is always classed as such. There are several different kinds of tomato plant, some producing a red and others better than in its raw state, either au naturel, accompanied with oil, or oil and vinegar, or sliced and served as a salad. The home-grown tomatoes are best for serving raw, and the small bright red ones have perhaps the finest taste. For cooking purposes there is perhaps no vegetable which will lend itself to such a variety of treatment as the tomato. Cooked by itself either by baking, broiling, frying, or stewing, &c., it forms an ex- cellent vegetable and a good accompaniment to most meat dishes. It is also valuable for flavouring purposes in soups, stews, and sauces, while many a tasty dish owes its savour to the addition of a small piece of tomato, or a table-spoonful of tomato puree. Unripe tomatoes make a very good pickle or chutney. 578. Baked Tomatoes, 1 (Tomates Roties) Tomatoes. Butter. Pepper and salt. Choose the tomatoes, as far as possible, of moderate and equal size. Wipe them first with a clean cloth, and remove the stalk and the hard part at the root of the stalk. Place them side by side on a buttered baking tin or fireproof dish and put a small piece of butter into the hole made by the removal of the stalk. Sprinkle with pepper and salt, and bake in the oven until tender, from 10 to 15 minutes. Serve in a hot dish. Tomatoes a yellow fruit, the former being the more general of the two. It is only of late years that the tomato has become popular in this country, but now it is universally used and has become a favourite with the majority of people. _ It can be eaten either raw or cooked. If well ripened with plenty of sun, it is perhaps never 579. Baked Tomatoes, 2 (Tomates au Four) 4 large tomatoes. I 1 dessert-sp. flour. 2 oz. butter. | \ pt. milk. Salt, pepper. Choose large ripe tomatoes of equal size. Wipe them and remove the stalks. Cut them in halves sidewise and lay them skin side downwards on a greased baking tin. Divide the butter into six equal- sized pieces and put a portion on the top of each iece of tomato, sprinkle with pepper and salt and ake in a moderate oven until tender. Then lift five pieces of tomato very carefully on to a hot dish and keep them warm. Bruise down the remain- ing piece in the baking tin and stir in the flour. Then add the milk and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook 2 or 3 minutes longer, adding more seasoning if necessary, and strain over or round the tomatoes. Garnish with sippets of toast and serve as a luncheon or supper dish. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 580. Boiled Tomatoes Choose small firm tomatoes and rather under, than over ripe. Wipe them and remove the stalks without damaging the skin in any way. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted and let them boil slowly from 5 to 7 minutes. Then lift them out with a draining spoon, or a frying basket may be used for putting the tomatoes into and lifting them out of the water. After draining, place them in a hot vegetable dish and serve at once. A little plain or mattre d’Jiotel butter (see Recipe 770) should be handed separately, the tomatoes being eaten from the skins, like a boiled egg, with a little butter, pepper, and salt put inside.