364 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD they are nicely browned and the pastry thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle again with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 pufis. Probable cost, 2d. each. 1557. Cherry or Plum Tartlets (Tartelettes de Cerises) 1 lb. cherries or small plums. J lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. Juice of | lemon. 1 tea-sp. cornflour or potato flour. 2 or 3 drops carmine. A little butter. Short crust. Line about a dozen tartlet tins with short crust or other pastry, and bake them to a golden brown colour. Put the sugar, water, and lemon juice into a small saucepan, and let them boil a few minutes. Then put in the fruit carefully picked and wiped, and allow it to stew slowly until tender. When ready, strain the fruit, return the liquid to the saucepan, and add to it the cornflour or potato Cherry Tartlets flour mixed with a little cold water. Stir until boiling, add the butter and enough carmine to make the syrup a pretty pink colour, and then reduce if necessary. Pill up the tartlets with the fruits, and when the syrup has cooled pour it over them. Serve hot or cold. Note.—It will be an improvement if the fruit can be stoned, and a little brandy or liqueur may be added to the syrup. Sufficient for 1 dozen tartlets. Probable cost, Id. each. 1558. Chestnut Tartlets (Petltes Tartes aux Marrons) i gill milk or cream. A little jam. Whipped cream. 1 egg—its weight in butter, castor sugar, and chestnut flour. Grated rind £ lemon. Line about a dozen patty tins with pastry, and bake them lightly in a quick oven. Mean- while prepare the following mixture: Take the weight of a large egg in butter, sugar, and chest- nut flour (Groult’s preparation, sold in £ lb. packets). Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the sugar, chestnut flour, and milk or cream, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes. Then add the egg well beaten and a little grated lemon rind, and cook a few minutes longer. Place a small spoonful of jam into each patty case, and fill up with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven until set. Take out, leave till cold, and serve either with or without a little whipped cream on the top of each. Time to bake, about £ hour in all. Probable cost, Id. to lid. each. 1559. Chocolate Tartlets (Petites Tartes au Chocolat) 2 yolks of eggs. Castor sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Pastry. Make about a dozen tartlet cases, but do not bake them. Melt the chocolate in a small quantity of the milk until it is perfectly smooth, then add the remainder of the milk with the biscuit crumbs and let them simmer for about ten minutes over the fire. Remove the pan from the fire, and add sugar to taste, flavouring, and yolks of eggs. Mix well, and fill the lined tins with this mixture. Lay some narrow strips of pastry in a trelliswork pattern over the top, wetting one edge of pastry wherever a join is made. Bake in a good oven until the mixture feels firm to the touch and the pastry is thoroughly cooked. Then brush the tartlets over with slightly beaten white of egg, and sprinkle them with sugar. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for from 12 to 15 cheese cakes. Probable cost, lOd. 3 macaroon biscuits. 2 table-sps. grated chocolate. I nt. milk. 1560. Cornucopias with Cream Some scraps of pastry. I Sugar. Double cream. | Flavouring. Decorations. " Roll out some scraps of pastry rather thinly, and cut it into strips 1 inch wide. Grease the out- Cornet Mould side of some cornucopia or cornet-shaped moulds and twist the strips of pastry round them. Let the twists overlap each other slightly, and wet Cornucopias with Cream the joins with cold water, or white of egg, to make the pieces stick together. Place them on a greased baking tin, and bake in a good oven until the pastry i