. 392 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Note.—A few cleaned currants or sultanas may be mixed with the bread and butter if wished, or the bread may be spread with a little marmalade as well as the butter. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1708. Bread and Butter Pudding (Steamed) See Cabinet Pudding (Recipe 1746). Steamed Bread-crumb Pudding l lb. bread-crumbs. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. Grated lemon rind. 2 eggs. Put the bread-crumbs and butter into a basin and pour the milk, boiling hot, over them. Add the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the yolks of the eggs. Soak a few minutes, and lastly, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pudding basin, and steam very slowly until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with jam or custard sauce. Notes.—This pudding may be baked instead of steamed, but less bread-crumbs will be required, or sponge-cake, or biscuit crumbs may be used instead of the bread-crumbs. Time to steam, £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1709. Bun Pudding Make in the same way as Rusk Pudding (Recipe 1724), using stale bun cut in slices instead of the rusks. The number of buns will depend upon their size, but the pie dish should not be more than half filled with the slices, as room must be allowed for them to swell. 1710. Cornflour or Arrowroot Pudding 1 or 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. A little flavouring. 14 oz. cornflour arrowroot. 14 pts. milk. A pinch of salt. Put most of the milk into a saucepan that has been rinsed out with water and allow it to heat. Mix the cornflour or arrowroot to a smooth paste with the remainder of the milk and add it to what is heating in the pan. Stir constantly until the mixture boils and thickens, and allow it to simmer at least 5 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and when the contents have cooled a little stir in the sugar, flavouring, and yolk or yolks of egg. Lastly, stir in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Pom? all into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and well risen. Lift out, sprinkle with sugar, and serve as quickly as possible. Notes.—-Skim milk may be used instead of fresh milk. A small piece of butter added to the mixture would be an improvement. Time, about \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. or 7d. Cornflour Custard Flavouring. 2 yolks of eggs. 1711. 1 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. cornflour. 1 table-sp. sugar. Mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little of the milk, and put the remainder into a saucepan to heat. When hot, pour it on to the cornflour, stirring all the time, and return all to the saucepan. Stir until boiling and simmer slowly for ten minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and when the mixture is off the boil stir in the yolks of eggs, sugar, and flavouring. Serve either warm or cold, in a glass or china dish. If liked, a little jam or stewed fruit may be put at the foot of the dish and the custard poured over it, or either of these may be served separately. Note.—Arrowroot or potato flour may be used instead of the cornflour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1712. Baked Custard Pudding 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. 1 pt. milk. A pinch of salt. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Flavouring to taste. Beat the eggs in a basin with the sugar, salt, and a little flavouring. Heat the milk without allow- ing it to boil and pom? it slowly on to the eggs, &c., stirring all the time. Strain the mixture into a greased pie dish and wipe carefully round the edges. Place the pudding on a tin with a little cold water round it, and cook in a moderate oven until the custard sets and becomes a pretty brown colour. The water in the tin will prevent the custard be- coming too hot and curdling. Sprinkle with a little fine sugar before serving. Notes.—A plainer pudding may be made by using two eggs only, and a richer one by adding two or three extra yolks of eggs. A more substantial pudding may be made by placing a rice biscuit, or a few broken macaroon or ratafia biscuits, in the pie dish before pouring in the custard. If the pudding is wished more decorative, line the pie dish with pastry (see p. 409) before pouring in the custard. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1713. Steamed Custard Pudding See Caramel Custard Pudding (Recipe 1749). The caramel may be omitted if a simpler pudding is required, and the basin carefully greased before putting in the custard. 1714. Macaroni Pudding (without Eggs) 3 oz. macaroni. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flora. 1 table-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. Flavouring. 2 table-sps. ratafia crumbs. Weigh the macaroni, break it into short lengths, and throw it into a saucepan of boiling salted water. Allow it to cook until quite tender, then drain. Meanwhile melt the butter in a saucepan, add to it the flour and mix until smooth. Pour on the milk and stir constantly until boiling. Add the maca- roni to this sauce with the sugar and flavouring, and simmer all together from ten to fifteen minutes. Then pour the mixture into a dish which can be sent to table, sprinkle the ratafia crumbs over the top, and serve hot. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd.