COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 198 801. Ginger Sauce (Sauce au Gingembre) 1 gill custard sauce. I gill ginger syrup. 1 or 2 table-sps. pre- Sugar, served ginger. Make a custard sauce according to Recipe 794, and add to it some syrup taken from a jar of pre- served ginger. If this syrup is very thick a little boiling water may be added to it. Add also 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of the ginger cut in small pieces, and sugar to taste. Note.—Instead of using preserved ginger, the custard sauce may be flavoured with ground ginger and mixed with a little white wine. 802. Gooseberry Sauce (Sauce aux Groseilles) 1 pt. green gooseberries. 1 gill water. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. Top and tail the gooseberries and wash them in cold water. Put them into a stewpan with the water, and simmer slowly for half an hour, or until the gooseberries are quite soft. Then rub through a fine sieve. Return the pulp to a clean saucepan, add the butter, sugar, and seasoning, and reheat. Serve with fried or boiled mackerel. Note.—Rhubarb Sauce may be made in the same way. 803. Hard Sauce J tea-sp. vanilla. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. 2 oz. fresh butter. I lb. castor or icing sugar. Beat the butter in a basin until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar, add it gradually to the butter, and beat again until very white and frothy. Success will depend on good beating. Flavour with the brandy and vanilla or any other flavouring pre- ferred. Set the sauce in a very cool place or on ice to harden, and serve lightly sprinkled with grated nutmeg. Notes.—This sauce should be served piled up in a little fancy glass or china dish. Sometimes the stiffly whipped white of an egg is stirred into the mixture. 804. Jam Sauce (Sauce au Confiture) 2 table-sps. red jam. 1 gill of water. 1 oz. loaf sugar. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Put the water, sugar, and jam into a small lined saucepan, and let them boil quickly for a few minutes, skimming if necessary. Add the lemon juice and two or three drops of carmine. Strain before using. Notes.—Raspberry or strawberry jam is to be preferred for making this sauce. A little wine may be added. 805. Kirsch Sauce (Sauce au Kirsch) 1 tea-sp. cornflour or 2 table-sps. kirsch. arrowroot. Sugar to taste. 1 tea-cupful water. Mix the cornflour or arrowroot with the water, and boil them together a few minutes. Add the sugar and kirsch and serve as required. 806. Lemon Sauce, 1 (Sauce Citron) £ oz. arrowroot. 1 oz. sugar. Rind and juice of £ 11 gills water. lemon. \ oz. butter. Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth and grate oS half the rind on to the top of the sugar. Grate very lightly, being most particular not to take any of the white, as it is bitter. Work the lemon rind and sugar together until they are well blended. Bre^k the arrowroot with a little of the water, then add the rest of the water, and pour into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling, add the lemon sugar, and the lemon juice strained, and cook for a few minutes. Break the butter in small pieces, and put it in just before serving. 807. Lemon Sauce, 2 Make according to directions given for Orange Sauce (Recipe 813), substituting lemon for orange. 808. Sauce au Liqueur, 1 (Sweet Sauce with Liqueur) I oz. butter. J oz. flour. 1 oz. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 1 gill of milk. A few drops of vanilla. 1 table-sp. red curagao. \ oz. preserved cherries. | oz. pistachio nuts. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix until smooth. Then draw the pan aside and pour in the milk. Stir well over the fire until boiling. Add the sugar, yolk of egg, and vanilla, mix again, and add lastly the curagao, and the pistachios and cherries both chopped. Note.—Any other liqueur preferred may be used instead of the curagao. 809. Sauce au Liqueur, 2 \ lb. sugar. I \ wine-glass liqueur. 3 yolks. Hot water. | 1 gill whipped cream. Put the water and sugar into a small saucepan and boil them to the thread or to 215° F. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin and pour the syrup of sugar water gradually on to them, whisking all the time. Continue to whisk until cold and then add the cream and liqueur. Note.—This may be served with any plain ice pudding or mousse, or with a hot pudding. 810. Marmalade Sauce 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Sugar. 2 table-sps. marmalade. £ pt. water. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. Put the marmalade and most of the water into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Break the arrowroot with the remainder of the water, add them to the other ingredients, and stir until boil- ing. Cook a few minutes, sweeten to taste, and add the lemon juice. The arrowroot may be omitted if a thinner sauce is preferred. Some- times a little wine or liqueur is added. 811. Sauce Mousseline (Sweet) 4 table-sps. cream. 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. H oz. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. maraschino, sherry, or fruit syrup. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a stewpan of slowly simmering water.