COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 8 the same colour as the walls in a darker shade, or with white paint or a light oak stain. The Flooring.—This will be found to vary according to locality. In some parts of the country we find red flags, in others glazed tiles, red and yellow bricks, concrete or wooden boards, &c. When the flooring consists of flags, tiles, or bricks, it does not as a rule require further covering, as these are easily washed, and one or two rugs for standing on will be all that is necessary. But with a wooden floor it is different, as boards soon become soiled and are difficult to keep in order. In this case it is important to cover them with some material that is easily washed. Good well-seasoned linoleum is the best covering for a kitchen floor, and one with A well-arranged Kitchen Dresser a pattern is generally to be preferred to a plain one, as it does not show marks so readily. The inlaid linoleums are the best, as their colourings and designs are so worked into the materials that they cannot wear off or be obliterated. The initial outlay will be somewhat greater, but a good inlaid linoleum will be found cheaper in the end, as it is so much more durable than the other makes. Linoleum requires to be very carefully laid; it should either be glued to the floor or have the edges of each breadth fastened down by a few headless brads. Care must also be taken in the washing (see p. 12). Fittings and Furnishings.—The number of im- movable fittings in a kitchen will vary considerably with the style of house, but they usually com- prise a dresser, shelves, cupboards, a pulley for hanging up towels, &c., a roller for towel, gas or electric fittings, bells, sink, and a kitchen range or stove. The most important fixture in a kitchen is the range or stove, and this is treated in a section by itself (see p. 16). The dresser is really the kitchen sideboard, and as a rule it is fitted against one of the W'alls and belongs to the house. If it has to be made to order, take careful measurements of the wall space avail- able and have it made to fit. The upper part is usually made with grooved shelves, on which the plates and dishes of the dinner service are kept, or it may be fitted with shelves for jars with hooks along the edge of the shelves on which to hang small utensils; the latter is the better plan when space is valuable. The top part of the dresser will give room for soup tureen, vegetable dishes, sauce boats, knife trav, weights and scales, &c.—beneath there should be two or three drawers for holding spoons, knives, &c., and kitchen towels, while the lower part is fitted up with cupboards for holding dishes and the larger cooking utensils. Extra accommodation can often be provided by having one or two shelves fitted up in these cupboards. If the dresser is a large one it will be found moro useful to have part of the top enclosed as cup- boards ; this will be found more useful than shelving, as things are kept covered and out of the dust. A hinged flap fitted at one end of the dresser and held up with a swinging bracket in order to make it level with the permanent top, will often be found useful. It will provide an extra bit of space while cooking is going on or during the service of meals when the dresser is apt to become uncomfortably crowded. Cupboard accommodation is always most valu- able in a kitchen, but unfortunately in many of our modern houses, and especially in flats, the supply is very inadequate. In this case it is some- times possible to have a cupboard fitted up on the wall in which a small store of provisions and bottles can be kept. A recess or corner might be utilised for this purpose, and a joiner will often be able to fit up a set of shelves with a simple door at a very small cost. When time and labour are both precious, as much as possible should be kept under cover in order to save continual dusting. If the kitchen is small, the most must be made of it by using the walls. Sometimes it will be found a con- venience to have a shelf carried round all the available wall space on which to rest some of the larger cookery utensils, store jars, &e. This shelf must not be placed too high, it ought to be within easy reach without having to climb on a chair. High shelves in a kitchen are practically useless, and they only harbour dust. A strip of wood fixed below the shelf and fitted with a number of hooks will also be found useful for hanging up some of the smaller utensils, such as gravy strainer, grater, measures, &c. Nails should never be driven into the wall itself, as they are sure to come out and bring some of the plaster along witli them. If there is a separate scullery this would naturally contain the sink. This should be fitted against an outside wall, and near a window if possible, and it