SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 237 accompaniment to this dish. Rolls of bacon may be used as a garnish. Time to cook. 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 952. Veal and Ham Cutlets (Cotelettes de Veau) | lb. fillet of veal. | lb. sliced bacon. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert - sp. melted butter or salad oil. Grated lemon rind and juice. 1 egg. Bread-crumbs. A border of potatoes or spinach. Brown or tomato sauce. Slices of lemon. The veal should be cut in slices about \ inch in thickness. Wipe it with a damp cloth, and beat it slightly with a wetted cutlet-bat or rolling-pin, trim it into nice oval-shaped pieces, free from skin and bone, or cut it with an oval or round cutter. Squeeze a very little lemon juice over each piece of meat. Beat up the egg on a plate, and add to it, pepper, salt, the chopped parsley, grated lemon rind, and melted butter or salad oil. (This last is added to soften the veal.) Brush over each of the cutlets with this, and then bread-crumb them. Press the bread-crumbs well on with a knife, re- shape the cutlets neatly, and lay them on a tin or dish with double paper under them ready for frying. Have the bacon cut in thin slices, remove all rind and rust from it, and roll it up into neat little rolls. Place these on a skewer, and cook them on a tin in the oven for about 10 minutes while the cutlets are being fried. To Cook the Cutlets.—Melt about 2 oz. of fat in a frying pan, and make it smoking hot. Place the cutlets carefully into this, and fry them rather slowly, first on one side and then on the other, until they are nicely browned. They will take from 10 to 12 minutes to cook. Lift them out on to the paper again, and let them drain for a minute or two. To Serve the Cutlets.—Make ready a border of spinach or potatoes (see Recipe 543) on a hot dish, and dish the cutlets along the top, one leaning against the other. Pour some brown or tomato sauce (see Sauces) round, and place the rolls of bacon in the centre or round the sides. Cut one or two thin shoes of lemon, quarter these slices, and place a piece of lemon between each cutlet. Note.—The cutlets may be served without the border of potatoes or spinach, and green peas or any other suitable vegetable used as a garnish. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, about 2s. 953. Minced Veal Steaks 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 lb. veal. 3 oz. ham or bacon. 2 oz. chopped suet. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. Grated rind of £ lemon. Wipe the veal and weigh a pound free from skin and bone. Cut both veal and ham in small pieces and put them through the mincing machine. Mix with the minced meat the chopped parsley, suet, 2 table-spoonfuls of bread-crumbs and seasonings, and bind all together with a little beaten egg. Then form into flat cakes, either oval or round, using a little flour if necessary. Egg and bread- crumb them, and fry a golden brown in a little hot butter in a frying pan. They must be well cooked. Drain and serve either plain or with tomato or brown sauce. Garnish with small pieces of cut lemon. Spinach, sorrel, stewed lettuces, &c., are good accompaniments to this dish. Time to cook, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 954. Galantine of Veal (Galantine de Veau) 3 or 4 lbs. breast of veal. 1 lb. pork sausage meat. Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. ’ 6 oz. ham or tongue. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Cold water. Flavouring vegetables. A little glaze. Prepare the meat, bone it as directed on p. 205, and spread it on a board with the skin side underneath. Season the sausage meat rather highly and spread it on the top. Cut the hard- boiled eggs in long sections and the ham or tongue in strips, and place these in rows on the top of the sausage meat. Sprinkle the parsley over. Two or three truffles and a few shred pistachio nuts may also be put in. Roll and sew up the meat, then tie it in a cloth very firmly and in the shape of a bolster. Put the bones from the veal into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, a little salt and a few pieces of flavouring vegetable. Bring this to the boil and skim if necessary. Put in the roll of veal and let it simmer slowly until tender. When done, lift it out, and if, owing to the shrinking of the meat, the cloth looks loose and wrinkled, take it ofl and re-roll it. Press the galantine between two tins or dishes with a weight on the top and let it remain until it is quite cold. Then remove the cloth and trim the ends. Brush over the surface with a little melted glaze, applying two coatings if necessary (see p. 210). Serve garnished with parsley, some nice salad, or chopped aspic jelly. Time to cook, 2\ to 3 hours. Probable cost, 4s. 955. Veal and Ham Mould 1 lb. fleshy veal. 6 oz. fat bacon. 1 gill jelly stock. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Grated rind of | lemon. Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. Take a plain tin mould and decorate the bottom of it with slices of hard-boiled egg and a little chopped parsley. Wipe the veal with a damp cloth, remove all skin and bone, weigh it and cut it into small pieces. Remove all skin and gristle from the bacon, and cut it into narrow strips. Mix the veal and bacon together on a plate with the remainder of the eggs cut in small pieces, and the seasonings. Pack this mixture loosely into the prepared mould, filling it to within an inch from the top. Melt the stock and strain it over. Should the stock used not be sufficiently stiff, dissolve a little gelatine in it first, and if no stock is available, boil the bones from the veal for about \ an hour, ■with a little water and small pieces of flavouring vegetables, then strain. Fill up the mould with the stock, cover over with greased paper, and bake