834 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Sprinkle it with some of the flour already weighed out. Then chop it very finely, using enough flour to prevent it sticking to the board and knife. The finer it is chopped, the better the pastry will be. When ready, mix it thoroughly with the flour in the basin, rubbing all the ingredients lightly together with the tips of the fingers. Then make a well in the centre of these dry ingredients, and add cold water very gradually with the left hand while you mix with the right. Mix with the hand or with a knife. Form into a smooth soft dough, and turn out on to a floured board, leaving the basin quite clean. Work lightly with the hands until free from cracks, then flour a rolling-pin and roll out to the thickness required. Roll on the one side only, and be careful the pastry does not stick to the board or roller. Lift it gently at the sides from time to time to make sure of this, and dust a little flour under and over as required. Use no more flour than is necessary for this purpose, as too much will make the pastry hard. Note.—Buttermilk or sweet milk may be used instead of water for mixing. Half the quantity of flour may be omitted, and £ lb. bread-crumbs used in its place. A larger proportion of suet may be used if the pastry is wished richer. Suitable for fruit and meat puddings, roly-poly pudding, dumplings, &c. Probable cost, 5d. 1442. Whole Meal Suet Pastry Make in the same way as last recipe, using half whole-meal and half flour. This pastry is particu- larly wholesome for children. 1443. Rough-puff Pastry £ lb. flour. A squeeze of lemon 1 lb. butter. juice. A pinch of salt. Cold water. Weigh the butter, and let it lie in a basin of cold water for some time before using it. Iced water is best if it can be procured. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin, and add the lemon juice to it. Then dry the butter in the corner of a clean dry cloth slightly floured. Squeeze out as much of the water as possible, but be careful not to heat the butter with the hands. Put the butter into the basin, cover it well over with the flour, and then break it into pieces the size of a hazel nut. Have some very cold water in a jug ready for mixing with, and make a well in the centre of the flour and butter. Mix very lightly with the right hand or with a knife, pouring the water in gradually with the left until you have added sufficient to bind all together. Flour the baking board and turn the dough out on to it. Flour the rolling-pin and roll the dough out very carefully into a strip about | of a yard in length and from 6 to 7 inches wide. Lift occasionally while rolling, and dust some flour underneath the pastry to prevent it from sticking to the board. Roll the pastry on the one side only, do not turn it over, and roll in short quick strokes always from you. When rolled to the required length, fold it in three, and press down with the rolling-pin. Turn the pastry half round, bringing the joins to the right-hand side, and roll again in the same way as before. Fold again in three, half turn and roll again, repeating this until the pastry has had three rolls and three folds. The fourth time of rolling out, roll to the size and shape required for use. Note.—If the pastry becomes very soft while rolling, it should be laid away in a cool place before completing the process. It is improved by being kept for a few hours before using. In cold weather it will keep for several days if wrapped in a piece of greased paper. This pastry may be made more economically by using half lard and half butter, or margarine in place of the butter. A better pastry may be made by using 6 oz. of butter instead of 4 oz. to £ lb. flour. An egg well beaten may be used for mixing with, along with a little water. Suitable for covering meat pies, plain patties, sausage rolls, and various dishes of fish or meat. Probable cost, 6d. 1444. Raised Pie Crust, 1 § lb. flour. I About 1 gill milk or 2 oz. lard. [ water. £ tea-sp. salt. Put the lard and water or milk into a small sauce- pan, bring them to the boil, but do not let them reduce in quantity. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin and make a well in the centre of them. Pour in the hot liquid, mixing first with a spoon or knife, as it is rather hot, then taking the hand and mixing quickly until all is formed into one lump. Turn out on a floured board, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Use warm and as directed. See Recipe 1472. Note.—Sometimes suet is used instead of lard. It must be minced very finely and melted slowly in a saucepan. Then the milk or water poured on to it, brought to the boil, and strained into the middle of the flour. Suitable for raised pies of all kinds. Probable cost, 2£d. 1445. Raised Pie Crust, 2 £ lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. lard or oil. 1 yolk of egg. £ tea-sp. salt. Water. Sieve the flour and salt, and rub in the butter and fat in the same way as for Short Crust. Butter alone should not be used,as it would make the pastry too soft. Bind together with the yolk of egg and a very little water, keeping the pastry as dry as possible. Knead well, wrap it in a wet cloth or muslin, and let it rest £ hour. Then use as required. Suitable for raised pies made in moulds and timbales. Probable cost, 5d.