404 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD different kinds of jam may be used in the making of it, but they should be without stones. Syrup, too, may be used instead of the jam, but it should be thickened first with a few bread-crumbs or a little oatmeal, and nicely flavoured with a little lemon or ginger. 1779. Lemon Pudding \ lb. bread-crumbs. | lb. chopped suet. 2 oz. flour. 3 oz. castor sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. rice flour. J tea-sp. baking powder. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 egg. A little milk. Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth, and grate the rind off it on to the top of the sugar. Work the sugar and lemon rind together with a broad-bladed knife until they are thoroughly blended. Then mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the lemon juice strained, the egg well beaten, and enough milk to make all of a softish consistency. Pour the mixture into a greased mould or basin, cover with a lid or with greased paper, and steam steadily. Turn out when ready and serve plain or with custard or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, fid. 1780. Marmalade Pudding J lb. each of flour, bread crumbs, and chopped suet. 2 oz. moist sugar. 1 or 2 eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. mar- malade. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Milk if necessary. Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin and make a well in the centre. Put in the mar- malade and the eggs well beaten, and mix all together, using a little milk if necessary to bind ; this will depend upon the amount of marmalade and eggs used. The mixture should be made moist enough to drop easily from the spoon, but at the same time not too liquid. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin, cover with greased paper and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with lemon or marmalade sauce. Time to steam, 2J to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1781. Orange Pudding Make in the same way as Lemon Pudding (see above), using the grated rind of two and the juice of one orange instead of the lemon rind and juice. Serve with orange sauce. 1782. Prune Pudding, 1 1 cupful each of flour, bread-crumbs, sugar, suet, milk, and puree of prunes. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 4 tea-sp. salt. 1 egg- Custard sauce. Prepare the pur6e of prunes by rubbing some well-cooked prunes through a fine wire sieve, using enough of their juice to make the purde the thick- ness of marmalade. Then mix all the dry in- gredients together in a basin and make a well in the centre. Pour in the egg well beaten, the prune puree, and a little of the milk. Mix from the centre outwards, drawing in the dry ingredients gradually, and only using the rest of the milk if necessary. The mixture should not be made too moist. Pour it into a well-greased basin, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready, and serve with custard or any other suitable sauce. Time to steam, 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. | lb. prunes. 2 oz. sugar. \ pt. water. 3 eggs. £ lb. ratafia or maca- roon crumbs. 1783. Prune Pudding, 2 1| oz. sweet almonds. £ pt. milk. 2 table-sps. port or claret. A few drops of carmine. Wash the prunes, and allow them to soak for one hour in the’ half pint of water. Then turn them into a saucepan with the water, and add the sugar. Simmer until quite soft, then strain (re- serving the liquor), and remove the stones from the prunes. Grease a plain mould very carefully, and coat the sides with macaroon or ratafia crumbs. Arrange a layer of the cooked prunes at the bottom of the mould, sprinkle with some of the almonds blanched and chopped, and then put in a layer of crumbs, then more prunes, &c.; and repeat this until all the crumbs and prunes are used. Beat up the eggs, add the milk, and strain this custard into the mould. (The mould should not be more than three-quarters full.) Cover with greased paper, and steam very slowly until firm to the touch. Reheat the liquid from the prunes, reduc- ing it a little if necessary, and add to it the wine and a few drops of carmine. Turn the pudding carefully out, and pour this sauce round. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1784. Plum Duff 1 lb. flour. | lb. suet. | tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. Put the flour into a basin, add the suet finely chopped, the raisins cleaned, stoned, and roughly chopped, and the other dry ingredients. Mix together and make a well in the centre. Add enough milk or water to form a dough, and knead lightly with the hands. Turn out on a floured board, form into a roll, and tie up in a scalded and floured pudding cloth like a roly-poly. Plunge into a saucepan of boiling water with a plate at the bottom, and boil quickly the required time. When ready, turn out on a very hot dish and serve with a sweet sauce or brown sugar. Time to boil, 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1785. Raspberry Pudding 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. J tea-sp. baking powder. mine. Make the mixture according to directions given for Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748). When well 4 to 6 oz. Valencia raisins. A little milk or water. 2 table-sps. raspberry jam. A few drops of car-