374 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD in a more elaborate form as an entree. It is per- haps most popular prepared with cheese, and it is this dish which supplies to a large extent the bread and meat of the Italian peasant. There are, however, many other ways of serving macaroni in its diSerent forms, and it is to bo hoped that the following recipes will suggest still more. For those who cannot digest the larger forms, the finer kinds, such as spaghetti, vermicelli, and the various pastines should be tried; these are exceedingly light and digestible, and may be given with safety even to young children and invalids. 1606. Macaroni, to Boil Although this is a very simple process, it requires a certain amount of care. Wipe the macaroni with a clean dry cloth, but never on any account wash or soak it. Have ready on the fire a saucepan with plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Break up the macaroni if necessary and throw it into this. Cook quickly with the fid off the pan, stirring from time to time to prevent the macaroni sticking, and never allowing the water to go off the boil. The time required will depend on the kind of macaroni used, and also somewhat upon individual taste, some preferring it better done than others. For most tastes it is sufficiently cooked when it can be pinched easily between the fingers, and on no account must it be allowed to remain in the water until it becomes soft and pappy. Drain the maca- roni in a colander or sieve, and shake out as much of the water as possible. It is then ready to serve in many different ways. 1607. Macaroni, Plainly Served \ lb. macaroni. | 1 gill milk. 2 oz. butter. | Seasoning. Boil the macaroni as directed above, then turn it into a very hot vegetable dish and season it with white pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the milk to it and bring to the boil. Pour this over the macaroni and mix lightly with two forks. Serve as an accompaniment to meat. Note.—The substitution of 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream for some of the milk would be amimprove- ment. Time to boil, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 1608. Macaroni with White Sauce (Macaroni a la Creme) £ lb. macaroni. Seasoning. £ pt. white sauce. Boil the macaroni until tender (see above), drain it, and cut it in pieces about 1 inch in length. Make £ pint of good white sauce (Recipe 671), add the macaroni to it, and season to taste. Cook for a few minutes by the side of the fire and serve as an accompaniment to meat. This makes a very good dish for a children’s dinner. The addition of I or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream will improve the dish. Note.—If preferred, some grated cheese may be added to the sauce, and the dish finished off with a coating of cheese on the top, as in Macaroni au Gratin. It may then be served as a luncheon or supper dish. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. 1609. Macaroni and Cheese (Macaroni au Gratin) \ lb. macaroni. 2 oz. butter. £ lb. grated cheese. A little made mustard. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs Boil the macaroni as directed in Recipe 1606, and drain it well. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix into it a little made mustard, add the macaroni and most of the cheese, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Toss all together over the fire until thoroughly mixed, and then turn the mixture into a greased fireproof dish. Mix the bread-crumbs with the remainder of the cheese and sprinkle them over the top. Pour over a little melted butter, or lay some on in small pieces, and brown in the oven or under the gas grill. Serve very hot. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. 1610. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes 2 oz. macaroni. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk or stock. 1 yolk of egg. A little made mustard. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Boil the macaroni as in Recipe 1606, drain it, and let it dry for a short time. Then chop it finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix together until smooth. Then pour in the milk, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens and begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the macaroni, grated cheese, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Mix all together, and turn out on a plate. Smooth the mixture over with a wetted knife, and set aside to cool. Then divide it into 8 or 10 equal-sized pieces, and form each portion into a cutlet shape, using a little flour to prevent the mixture from sticking to the board. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown. Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of uncooked macaroni into the end of each to imitate the bone. Dish in a circle on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—Finely-chopped ham and a little parsley may be used in place of the cheese if preferred. Tomato sauce may be served separately. Probable cost, 7d. 1611. Macaroni au Gratin | lb. macaroni. 1 pt. white stock. 1 onion. 2 cloves. Seasoning. A small bunch of herbs. 4 to 6 oz. grated Gruyere cheese. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Put the stock into a stewpan with the onion stuck with cloves, and a small bunch of herbs. Bring to the boil and throw in the macaroni broken in small pieces. Cook until the macaroni is tender and the stock absorbed, adding more stock or a little water if necessary. When ready, remove the onion and herbs, and season rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Then grease a fireproof dish, and put into it a layer of macaroni and a layer of grated cheese alternately,