COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 428 cup or basiu. Then make and cook the souffle according to general directions given for a Steamed Souffle on p. 425, using the chocolate and milk as the gill of liquid. Serve with chocolate, custard, or any other suitable sauce. Notes.—This souffle may be baked instead of steamed. If unsweetened chocolate is used, take rather less of it and add a little more sugar. Time to steam, .V to £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 1911. Chocolate Soufflg, Baked (Souffl6 au Chocolat) 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 1 gill of milk. h oz. potato flour. 1 table-sp. cream. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. A few drops of vanilla. 2 oz. castor sugar. Break the chocolate into small pieces, and put it into an enamelled saucepan with half the milk. Cook gently over the fire, 6tirring from time to time, until the chocolate is melted and quite free from lumps. Put the sugar, yolks of eggs and vanilla into a basin, and work them together with a wooden spoon until they are of a creamy con- sistency. Add the rest of the milk to this, then the chocolate by degrees. Return all to the sauce- pan, and cook together over the fire until almost boiling. Then remove from the fire, add the cream, and stir occasionally for a few minutes. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them by degrees with the other mixture, stirring them in as lightly as possible. Pour into a greased souffle dish, and cook in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Should the souffle become too brown, put a piece of paper on the top. Sprinkle with a little sugar just before serving, and send to table directly. Time to bake, 16 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1913. Ginger Soufflt (Steamed) l oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ gill milk. | gill ginger syrup. 1 oz. sugar. 2 or 3 oz. preserved ginger. 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Make and cook according to directions given for a Steamed Souffle on p. 425, using the milk and syrup from the preserved ginger as the gill of liquid, and adding the ginger cut in small pieces to the panada. Serve with ginger or -wine sauce. Time to steam, £ to £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1914. Little Ginger Souffles (Baked) 1 oz. butter. h oz. cornflour. | gill milk. i gill ginger syrup. 1 oz. sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 whites of eggs. 2 oz. preserved ginger. Melt the butter in an enamelled saucepan, add the milk and cornflour, and stir over the fire until thick and smooth. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the sugar, ginger syrup, and ginger cut in tiny pieces. Mix well, and add the yolks one at a time, beating well between each. Baked Ginger Souffles 1912. Coffee Souffle with Caramel (Souffld au Cafe) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. J gill strong black coffee. J gill cream. 1 oz. sugar. 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs- I A pinch of salt. Caramel. 3 oz. loaf sugar. | gill water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Put the ingredients for the caramel into a small strong saucepan or sugar boiler, and cook them until of a golden brown colour. Pour this into an ungreased souffle tin, take hold of the tin with a cloth, and run the caramel round the sides, coating them well. Cool for a few minutes, and tie a band of greased paper round the outside of the tin. To Make the Mixture.—Proceed according to directions given for a Steamed Souffle on p. 425, and steam very carefully in the prepared mould. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and serve immediately. The caramel will run round the souffle and serve as a sauce. Note.—If preferred, the caramel may be omitted and the souffle served with a coffee sauce. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. Lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, mixing them in as lightly as possible. Grease some small china or paper souffle dishes, three-quarter fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until they are a nice brown colour and well risen. Sprinkle with sugar, and serve immediately. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1915. Ground Rice Souffle (Souffld au Riz) 1 pt. milk. 1£ oz. ground rice. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. sugar. \\ oz. butter. 3 eggs. Vanilla. Mix the ground rice with a little of the milk, and put the rest into a saucepan to heat. When hot, but not boiling, add the ground rice, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add the sugar and butter, and cook for about 10 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolks of eggs, flavour with vanilla or any other flavouring preferred, and lastly stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish or fireproof dish, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. Serve directly, sprinkled with powdered sugar.