99 FISH 260. Fried Cutlets of Sturgeon 1| lbs. sturgeon. Lemon juice. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. Piquante sauce. Remove all skin and bone from the fish and cut it in small neat cutlets about £ an inch in thick- ness. Rub them over on both sides with a piece of cut lemon, and coat them lightly with flour. Then mix the parsley and a little pepper and salt with the beaten egg, and egg and bread-crumb the cutlets (see p. 249). Fry them in a small quantity of clarified fat in a frying pan in the same way as veal cutlets, and until a golden brown colour on both sides. Drain them and serve them garnished 'with parsley and cut lemon. Piquante, tomato, or any other suitable sauce should be served separately. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 261. Fillets of Sturgeon with Sauce 2 lbs. sturgeon. Seasoning. Lemon juice. Warm water. A bunch of herbs. Caper or tomato sauce. Cleanse the piece of sturgeon carefully, remove the skin and bone, and cut the flesh into small neat fillets. Rub these over on both sides with a cut lemon, season them with pepper and salt, and lay them on a greased tin or baking dish. Pour round the fish enough warm water to barely cover it (or white wine may be used if preferred), put in a small bunch of herbs, and cover all with greased paper. Now cook the fish in a moderate oven until tender, and meanwhile prepare § pint of caper, tomato, or any other suitable sauce. The sauce must be made fairly thick to allow for some thinning down afterwards. When the fish is ready, arrange the fillets neatly on a hot dish and keep them warm. Remove the bunch of herbs, and reduce the liquid in the tin or dish until only 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls are left. Strain this into the prepared sauce, and pour all over the fish. Decorate with cut lemon and new potatoes if liked. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 6 or 8 persons. 262. Stuffed and Roast Sturgeon 3 or 4 lbs. sturgeon. Veal forcemeat. 2 oz. butter or fat. 1 cupful stock. 1 glass sherry. .Lemon juice. juice. Stir over the fire until boiling, rubbing down any browning from the tin. Season and skim if necessary, and strain this gravy over the fish or serve it separately. Time to cook, 1 to 1£ hours. Turbot (Turbot) The best of all flat fish. The flesh is firm, rich, and of a creamy white colour; if it has become bluish in colour it should be rejected. It is ex- cellent in flavour, and very gelatinous. The thick part of the fins is particularly favoured by the Choose a piece from the tail end of the sturgeon. Wash it, skin it, and then carefully remove the back bone. Prepare some veal stuffing according to Recipe 1282, and put it in, in place of the bone, and keeping the fish as much its original shape as possible. Now rub it all over with lemon juice, and wrap it up in a piece of well-greased paper. Place it in a roasting tin with about 2 oz. butter or good dripping, and roast it in exactly the same way as a piece of meat (see p. 207), basting it fre- quently with the fat. When ready, place the fish on a hot dish, removing the paper, and keep it warm whilst making the gravy. Pour away the fat from the roasting tin, and put in a cupful of good stock, a glass of sherry, and a squeeze of lemon Turbot epicure. Turbot is usually boiled and served with a good sauce, its name varying with the sauce which accompanies it. Small turbots are called chicken turbots (Fr. turbotin); they may be cooked according to any of the recipes for cooking a sole. 263. Turbot, To Boil (Turbot Bouilli) The turbot grows to such a large size that a good slice or cut is usually sufficient for the ordinary household. Wash and clean the fish without cut- ting oS the fins, as these are considered a delicacy. Rub the turbot all over with lemon juice to keep the flesh firm and white, and score the black skin across two or three times to prevent it cracking. Then cook it in fish stock or court bouillon accord- ing to directions given for boiling fish on p. 78. The fish should be put into the fish kettle with the white skin uppermost. When ready, lift out, drain well, and serve on a folded serviette. Garnish with tufts of fresh parsley, cut lemon, and lobster coral, or with quarters or slices of hard-boiled egg, tarragon, and scraped horse-radish. Prawns also make an effective garnish. Serve boiled potatoes and a good sauce, such as Dutch, oyster, lobster, &c., separately. The fish will take its name on the menu according to the sauce which accompanies it. Note.—If only a small piece of turbot is being cooked, steaming is preferable to boiling. See To Steam Fish, p. 80. 264. Water Souehe 2 lbs. fish. Hpts. water. A few parsley roots. A blade of mace. 6 peppercorns. I tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Salt. Almost any kind of fish may be used for this ; plaice, flounder, perch, sole, eels, &c., are all suitable.