73 STOCKS AND SOUPS saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Pour in the stock, stir until boiling, and skim if necessary. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, and strain in the yolks of eggs and cream mixed together, stirring constantly. Cook carefully until the yolks thicken, but do not allow the soup to boil again, or it will curdle. Add the chopped parsley or tarragon, a pinch of sugar and seasoning to taste. Put the prepared vege- tables into a hot soup tureen, and pour the hot soup over them. Serve with pulled bread or cheese pastry cut in fine straws. Time to cook, \ to f hour. Probable cost, 2 s. Quantity, 2 pints. 161. Lettuce Cream Soup (Potage Creme de Laitues) 2 or 3 lettuces. 2 oz. butter. | pt. bechamel sauce. 1J pt. white stock. 1 gill of thin cream. A little chervil or chopped parsley. Salt. Pull the lettuces to pieces and wash them well. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt, boil quickly for 5 minutes, and strain. Then rinse them with cold water, chop them roughly and put them in a saucepan with the butter. Season with salt, put the lid on the pan and cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, being careful the contents do not burn. Then add the sauce and simmer for 20 minutes longer. Now rub the con- tents of the saucepan through a hair sieve or tammy- cloth, return the puree thus obtained to a clean saucepan and moisten it with the white stock. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and add the cream and chervil last. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 162, Macaroni Cream Soup (Potage a la Royale) 2 pts. white stock. 2 oz. cooked macaroni. 1 gill cream. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of cayenne. Cook the macaroni without allowing it to become pulpy, and cut it in small pieces or rings. Heat the stock, put the macaroni into it and allow it to simmer at least 5 minutes. Beat the cream, yolks of eggs and cheese together, add them to the soup and make thoroughly hot without boiling. Add a pinch of cayenne, the chopped parsley and a little salt if necessary. Serve with fried croutons of bread. Time to cook, about 20 minutea. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 163. Mushroom Soup (Potage Creme de Champignons) 1 lb. fresh mushrooms. 1J pts. light stock. 1£ oz. butter. if oz. flour. \ pt. milk. 1 Spanish onion. 1 stick of celery. A squeeze of lemon juice. Salt, pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill cream. Wash the mushrooms and cut them in small pieces. _ Put them into a saucepan with the butter and onion and celery roughly chopped. Cook these for a few minutes over the fire and pour in the stock. Simmer 1 hour or longer until the mushrooms are soft, and then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the sieved soup to it. Add the flour broken smoothly with the milk, stir until boiling and simmer a few minutes longer. Season to taste and add the cream, parsley, and lemon juice just before serving. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 164. Parisian Cream Soup Make in the same way as Tapioca Cream Soup (Recipe 169), adding 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 165. Potato Soup & la Parmentier (Creme Parmentier) 1 lb. peeled potatoes. 1 qt. white stock. 2 or 3 leeks. 2 oz. butter. A little chervil. I pt. hot milk. 1 gill cream. Seasoning. Prepare the potatoes and leeks and cut them in thin slices. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and cook over the fire a few minutes. Pour in the white stock and cook until the potatoes are quite soft. Then rub as much as possible through a hair sieve or tammy into a basin. Return to the saucepan to reheat and add the hot milk, cream, and seasoning Sprinkle with a little chervil if obtainable, and add the following garnish: Garnish.—One gill asparagus points, cooked in boiling water and salt until tender, then strained. Half gill carrots, cut in the shape of a pea with a cutter for the purpose (see Recipe 125), cooked in boiling water and salt until tender, then strained. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 166. Rabbit Cream Soup 1 rabbit (small). 3 pts. cold water. A small piece of ham. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | pt. milk. Salt to taste. 2 onions. (Potage Cr£me de Lapin) A stick of celery. A few parsley stalks. 6 white peppercorns. 3 cloves. A blade of mace. 1 gill of thin cream. Wash and clean the rabbit well, let it lie in salt and water for half an hour, lift out, dry, and cut it in small joints. Cut the flesh in small pieces, and chop the bones. (If the rabbit is a large one, or only a small quantity of soup is required, some of the fillets from the back might be put aside for another dish.) Put the meat and bones into a sauce- pan with cold water to cover them, add a little salt, and bring quickly to the boil. Pour off this water and rinse the saucepan and rabbit until quite free from scum. Now pour 2J pints of cold water over the rabbit, or sufficient to well cover it, add the ham cut in small pieces, or a small ham bone, and bring this slowly to the boil. Skim if necessary and add the vegetables cut in small pieces, the bunch of herbs, and spices tied in muslin. Simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours until the goodness is all extracted from the rabbit. Then strain through a fine sieve into a basin. Put some of the meat into a mortar, pound it with a little of the liquid and rub it through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan, melt in it the butter, add the flour and mix until smooth. Add the liquid, milk, and sieved meat and stir until boiling. Tammy or sieve again if wished very smooth and velvety. Boil for 10