COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 434 the sago and allow it to simmer until quite clear and thoroughly cooked. Add sugar to taste and a few drops of vanilla and allow this to cool. Peel and slice the bananas, and put half of them in a glass dish with half the jam on the top. Pour on half the sago, then the remainder of the sliced banana and jam with the rest of the sago on the top. Pour the custard over all and set in a cool place until wanted. The dish may be decorated with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, or with a sprinkling of cocoanut and pink sugar. Note.—Any other milk pudding mixture may be used instead of the sago and the Savouring may be altered according to taste. Cream may be used instead of custard. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10d. 1 pt. milk. f oz. gelatine. 2 bay-leaves. 1937. Blanc-mange 2 or 3 oz. sugar. 2 or 3 drops essence of almonds. Put the milk into a lined saucepan with the bay- leaves and let it infuse by the side of the fire until flavoured. Then lift out the bay-leaves and add the gelatine cut in pieces. Care must be taken to use a very fine gelatine, otherwise it will taste, or isinglass may be used instead of gelatine. Stir until melted,but be careful the milk does not boil. Sweeten to taste, add the flavouring essence, and strain into a basin. Then stir the mixture occasionally until it is beginning to set, when it may be poured into an oiled or wetted mould. When cold and set, turn out and serve with cream, custard, or stewed fruit. Notes.—The blanc-mange may be made richer by using partly cream and partly milk; and the mould may be decorated first with a little red jelly. The flavouring, too, may be altered according to taste, as for instance, vanilla pod or pounded sweet almonds used instead of the bay-leaf. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. or Gd. 1938. Bramble or Blackberry Mould I lb. blackberries. I 3 or 4 oz. sugar. 1| pts. water. | Cornflour or sago. 3 or 4 drops carmine. | Lemon juice. Pick the blackberries carefully, discarding any that are not quite sound, and wash them if necessary. Put them into a lined saucepan with the water and sugar,and letthem simmerover the fire until reduced to a pulp. Then strain through a fine sieve, pressing out all the juice from the fruit, but being careful to leave the seeds behind. Measure the juice and allow II oz. of cornflour to the pint. Return the juice to a clean saucepan, add the cornflour previously mixed to a smooth paste with a little water or fruit juice, and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer a few minutes until the cornflour is well cooked, add a squeeze of lemon juice, more sugar if necessary, and a little carmine if the colour requires it. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Gd. 1939. Gateau of Chestnuts (Gateau de Chataignes) 1 lb. chestnuts. 4 pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. Flavouring. Browned bread-crumbs. Cream or custard sauce. Remove the two skins from the chestnuts, put them into a saucepan with the milk and stew until tender. Then sieve them or put them through a vegetable presser. The pur6e thus obtained should be of the consistency of thick cream; if too thick, it must be thinned down with more milk. Add to it the yolks of eggs and sugar and flavour to taste with vanilla, orange-flower water, or a little rum. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Half fill a mould, that has been greased and coated with browned bread-crumbs or cake-crumbs, with the mixture, place it in a deep tin with boiling water round it, and cook in the oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out when cold and serve with custard sauce, or slightly whipped cream poured over. Note.—The mould may be coated with caramel instead of bread-crumbs (see Recipe 1912), and this will then serve as a sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, l(kf. to Is. 1940. Pyramid of Chestnuts (Pyramide de Marrons) £ lb. peeled chestnuts. i Caramel. \ pt. milk. 6 oz. sugar. 2 oz. sugar. j Juice of | lemon. Flavouring. | Custard sauce. Remove the two skins from the chestnuts, put them into a saucepan with the milk and simmer by the side of the fire until they are soft and the milk absorbed. Add the sugar towards the end of the cooking. When ready, rub the chestnuts through a wire sieve and flavour the puree with vanilla or any other flavouring preferred. The puree should be of a nice thick consistency. Arrange it in a pyramid in the centre of a dessert dish, making the sides very smooth with the blade of a knife, and set aside until quite cold. Make a caramel with the sugar and lemon juice, rather brown in colour, and pour it slowly over the pyramid, commencing at the top, so that it hardens by degrees on reaching the base. Pour round some custard sauce, flavoured with vanilla. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1941. Chocolate and Orange Custard 1J pts. milk. | 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 table-sps. cornflour. 2 eggs. Vanilla essence. 2 oz. chocolate. I 2 or 3 oranges. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan and bring it to the boil, add the cornflour mixed smoothly with 1 gill of milk, and stir and cook well about 10 minutes. Grate or shred the chocolate, and dis- solve it in a small saucepan with the remainder of the milk. Add this to the cornflour and mix until smooth. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the yolks of eggs, sugar, and vanilla, and let the mixture cool. Remove the skin and all white pith from the oranges. Slice them thinly, re- moving the seeds, and lay them in a glass dish. Pour the chocolate mixture over. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add a little sugar and pile on the top of the custard. Place the dish on ice or in a very cool place, and serve as cold as possible. Note.—Other fruits may be used instead of the oranges. If tinned fruit is employed, some of the syrup should be mixed with the chocolate custard. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is.