VEGETABLES AND SALADS 179 the salad dressing just before serving. A few nasturtium flowers make a pretty decoration when obtainable. 651, Egg Salad (Salade aux CEufs) 6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 lettuce. 1 beetroot. Mayonnaise sauce. 1 dessert-sp. chopped capers. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Cut the eggs in slices or sections. Wash and shred the lettuce and cut the beetroot in thin slices. Arrange these ingredients in a salad bowl in layers, sprinkling them with a little of the Egg Salad lettuce leaves, pile the fish in the centre and pour some sauce or dressing slowly over. Place the heart of the lettuce on the top, garnish round the sides with carefully selected lettuce leaves and some thinly-sliced cucumber or tomato. Note.—Hard-boiled egg, fillets of anchovy, shrimps, beetroot, &c., may all be used as a garnish or mixed with the fish. 655. French Bean Salad (Salade de Haricots Verts) Cooked French beans. I 1 or 2 chopped chives. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. | Salad dressing. No. 748. If the beans are very young and tender they may be left whole; if not, cut them in fine shreds. Mix them with the parsley and chives, arrange them in a salad bowl and pour the dressing over just before serving. Garnish with a little lettuce, endive, or nasturtium leaves. 656. Game Salad (Salade de Gibier) Make in the same way as chicken salad, using tartare sauce (Recipe 759) instead of mayonnaise. parsley and capers and pouring over some mayon- naise sauce. Place some slices or sections of egg round the base and serve very cold. Vinaigrette sauce may be used instead of the mayonnaise, and other salad vegetables may be added. 652. Egg and Green Pea Salad 4 or 5 eggs. 1 cupful cooked green peas. Seasoning. Mayonnaise sauce. Lettuce leaves. Small cress or radish. Poach the eggs, allowing one for each person, trim off any ragged edges and allow them to become quite cold. Add to the peas enough mayonnaise sauce to bind them together and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Then to serve the salad: take a nice curly lettuce leaf for each egg, and arrange them on a salad dish with an egg in the centre of each. Put a few green peas on the top of the eggs with a little more mayonnaise over, garnish with small cress or pieces of radish, and serve as cold as possible. 653, Egg Plant Salad (Aubergines en Salad) Take one or two cooked egg plants or aubergines, peel them and cut them in small dice or shreds. Put these into a salad bowl, season with salt and pour over, in equal quantities, enough salad oil and lemon juice to moisten the egg plant. Mix well, sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley or chervil, and garnish round the dish with mustard and cress or watercress. 654. Fish Salad (Salade de Poisson) | lb. cooked fish, salmon, halibut, sole, cod, &c. Mayonnaise sauce, or Salad dressing. No. 749. 1 lettuce or endive. 1 tomato or cucumber. 1 dessert-sp. capers. Lemon juice. Break the fish into neat flakes, free from skin and bone, sprinkle it with pepper, salt, lemon juice and the capers slightly chopped. It must be very cold. Line a salad dish with some crisp 657. Haricot Bean Salad (Salade de Haricots Blancs) Cooked haricot beans. I Hard-boiled egg. Chopped parsley. | Salad dressing. No. 748. Have the beans well cooked, but not broken. Dry them well and mix them lightly with the parsley. Arrange neatly on a salad dish, and pour the dressing over them. Garnish with some tiny sprigs of parsley and sections of hard-boiled egg- Notes.—If liked, a little very finely chopped onion may be added, or the dish may be rubbed over with a piece of raw onion or garlic previous to putting in the beans. Tomato, celery, or potato combined with the haricot beans make a very good salad. 658. Lettuce Salad (Salade a la Romaine) Choose young fresh lettuces and use the tender leaves only. Wash and prepare the lettuce as directed on p. 176, break it in small pieces and shake it very dry in a cloth or salad basket. Some authorities say that the lettuce should never be washed; when taken from one’s own garden and grown in clean surroundings this may be very well, but when bought, it is a very questionable habit. Put the prepared lettuce into a salad bowl and add to it a little chopped parsley, tarragon, and chives, or a few spring onions, or the salad bowl may be rubbed with a clove of garlic. At the moment of serving, mix the salad with some French dressing (Recipe 748). It will require a lot of mixing to blend it thoroughly with the leaves. The salad may then be garnished with a few radishes, or a few nasturtium flowers when in season will make a pretty decoration. 659, Lobster Salad (Salade de Homard) Cooked lobster. Mayonnaise sauce. See No. 753. Cucumber or radish. 1 or 2 lettuces. Hard-boiled egg. Pick all the meat from the lobster, and reserve the coral, the long feelers and the tips of the claw