614 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD that may falL The sugar may be coloured, if wished, green or pink according to what is required. This makes a very pretty decoration for fancy sweets; it can also be twisted into a basket or nest for holding small sweets or ice creams. Spun sugar must be made on a dry day; moisture or a draught will spoil it. 2961. Sugar Basket Take 1 lb. cane loaf sugar and | pint hot water, and put them into a small saucepan or sugar boiler. Let the sugar melt, then bring it to the bod with the lid on the pan. Remove the lid, and boil without shaking or stirring to the “ crack,” or until the sugar just begins to change colour. Have ready a very well oiled marble slab, and also an oiled mould in the form of a flat basket. A good-sized fluted mould would do very well. Pour out the sugar in a round on the oiled slab, and let it cool slightly. If liked, the edges may be slightly touched with colour, put on lightly with a fine brush. Then lift the sheet of sugar, and line the mould with it, pressing it well into the form. The edges may be trimmed if liked, but as a rule they look better slightly uneven. When set, remove the sugar basket from the mould, wipe the outside with a clean cloth to remove the oil, and set it on a wire tray until cold. It must be kept in a cool place and out of a draught, A sugar basket is a very pretty receptacle for ices ; a little unmoulded ice mixture may be put in first, and small ices piled on the top. It is also useful for holding meringues a la, crime. 2962. Turkish Delight 1 oz. French sheet gela- tine. 1 gill cold water. 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill hot water. 1 orange. 1 lemon. \ wine-glassful rum. Carmine. Icing sugar. Put the gelatine into a small saucepan with the cold water, and dissolve it slowly by the side of the fire, stirring occasionally. Into a larger saucepan put the sugar and hot water, bring them to the boil, then draw the saucepan to one side, and strain in the gelatine, being careful to waste none. Re- turn the saucepan to the fire, and simmer the contents steadily for 15 minutes, stirring frequently. Now add the rum, and the thinly-peeled rind and the strained juice of the orange and lemon, stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until the liquid is well flavoured. Then strain and divide into two portions. Colour one portion pink with a few drops of carmine, and leave the other its natural colour. A few blanched and shred almonds and pistachio nuts may also be added at this stage. Pour into wetted tins or plates about 1 inch thick, and set aside to cool. When cold and firm, turn out on white paper sprinkled with sieved icing sugar, cut in small pieces, and coat well with the sugar. Place the Turkish delight on a papered tray to dry, and coat again with icing sugar if necessary. Store in an air-tight box, keeping it well dusted with the sugar. Note.—A little honey is sometimes added to the above, and the flavouring may be altered to suit individual taste. The Packing of Sweets If sweets are to be offered for sale or given away as presents it is very important that they should be properly packed. Boxes of different sizes, with a rim of lace-edged paper round the top, are Paper Cases for Sweets sold for the purpose. The plainer and simpler they are the better, but they should be distinctive in style. These should first be lined with two pieces of grease-proof paper, one to lie lengthwise and the other crosswise of the box, and cut long enough to fold over on the top of the sweets. Neatly folded strips of paper should be used to divide such sweets as chocolates and fondants in rows, and the better kinds may be placed in little frilled paper cases as well. Candies, tablets, and such like should be simply wrapped up in wax paper, and fitted into the box as neatly as possible. Fold the lining paper over the sweets, and then place a pad of very fine soft shavings on the top to prevent their moving about. Put on the lid, and finally tie round with pretty ribbon of a tasteful shade, which will greatly add to the daintiness of the appearance.