VEGETABLES AND SALADS 175 mixture into a greased souffle dish, not more than half filling it, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. Dried Peas We have dried peas in two forms, the whole green pea and the split pea, which has had the outer skin removed. They are both very valuable articles of food on account of their low price and the amount of nourishment they contain; but they must be well cooked to make them digestible, and previous soaking is a necessity. Dried green peas may be served as a vegetable instead of fresh green peas, what are called the marrow fat peas being the best to choose for this purpose; or a few of them may be put into a broth or stew that requires long cooking. They are also good made into a puree (see below), when they may be served as an accompaniment to meat and especially fat meat or salt meat; while the puree thinned down with milk or water makes an excellent soup. Split peas are more used for soup than for any other purpose, also for pease pudding, which is a favourite accompaniment to boiled pork ; they can also be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking lentils. 632. Dried Green Peas, To Cook | pt. dried green peas. 1 onion. Salt, pepper. 3 or 4 cloves. A bunch of herbs. 2 table-sps. stock or cream. 1 oz. butter. £ tea-sp. sugar. The dried green peas make a very good winter vegetable when fresh peas are not obtainable. Soak them first from 12 to 18 hours in cold water, then drain and rinse them in fresh cold water. Put the peas into a saucepan, well cover them with cold water and bring them slowly to the boil. Add an onion stuck with 3 or 4 cloves and a small bunch of herbs, and continue the cooking until the peas are quite tender. More water must be added from time to time if the peas become too dry. Drain them when ready and remove the onion and herbs. Return the peas to the saucepan, mix in the butter and sugar, season to taste, and add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of good stock or cream to moisten. Serve at once in a hot vegetable dish. Note.—A little ham or bacon, cut in dice and fried until crisp, may be added to the peas at the last and this will make a good supper dish. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 633. Dried Green Pea Pur6e Prepare and cook some dried green peas as in last recipe. After draining, rub the peas through a wire sieve, using some of the water in which they were cooked to moisten them. Return the puree to the saucepan, add a piece of butter or some good beef dripping and season to taste. If the puree is too thick, thin it down with a little hot milk or stock. Serve in a hot vegetable dish. Note.—This makes a very good accompaniment to salt meat. 634. Green Peas and Spaghetti 2 tea-cupfuls green pea puree. Seasoning. 2 tea-cupfuls cooked spaghetti. 1 table-sp. butter. 3 table-sps. grated cheese 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Make the green pea puree (see last recipe) and keep it hot. Boil the spaghetti until tender, and drain it well. Then melt the butter in a sauce- pan, put in the spaghetti, cheese, and seasoning, and make all thoroughly hot. To serve, arrange the green pea puree in a border round a dish, pile the spaghetti in the centre and sprinkle the parsley over. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 635. Pease Pudding l lb. split peas. I Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. | A pinch of sugar. Wash the peas well, removing any discoloured ones, and soak them overnight in cold water. Tie them loosely in a cloth, leaving room for them to swell, and put them into a saucepan with a good pinch of salt and enough boiling water to cover them. Boil quickly from 2 to 2\ hours, or until the peas are quite soft. Keep them well covered with water all the time. When ready, take them up and drain. Turn the peas out of the cloth, and rub them through a wire sieve or colander. Add the butter, egg well beaten, pepper, salt, and a pinch of sugar. Beat all well together for a few minutes until the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, then tie up tightly in a floured cloth. Boil the pudding for another half hour, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve as an accompaniment to salt beef or pork. Or, if preferred, the second boiling may be dis- pensed with, and the mixture simply piled up on a hot dish. The egg in this case may be omitted. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4d. PART III SALADS INTRODUCTORY THE INGREDIENTS OF A SALAD The variety of ingredients that can be used for salads is so numerous that we need never be with- out one all the year round. Almost all vegetables can be utilised for this purpose, some in their raw, and others in a cooked state. Among the principal vegetables which may be used raw, may be men- tioned : the lettuce, endive, mustard and cress, watercress, cucumber, tomato, radishes, spring onions, celery, &c., whilst the following may be quoted as being amongst the most suitable of those requiring previous cooking: beetroot, cauli- flower, French beans, green peas, asparagus, carrot, turnip, potato, Spanish onion, haricot beans, &c. Besides vegetables, poultry and game of any kind, ham, tongue, or, in fact, any tender, well- flavoured meat cut in small pieces may be used.