64 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD names from the garnish added to them. Some of these names are classic, and continue from genera- tion to generation, others change with fashion, and the passing of events, both social and political. The following recipes will serve as a guide to the formation of many others, in fact with a little in- genuity the number may be increased indefinitely. Note.—If the stock used is very strong, less meat might be employed for clearing, and an extra white and shell of egg added. 118, Brunoise Soup (Consomme a la Brunoise) Prepare in the same way as Julienne soup (Recipe 126), cutting the vegetables in dice or tiny square pieces instead of shreds. 119. Clear Soup a la Celestine (Consomme a la C61estine) 2 pts. clear stock or consomme. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp.-flour. | tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. J gill milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped tar- ragon and chervil. Pepper and salt. A small piece of butter. This is a clear soup garnished with fine shreds of savoury pancake. Put the flour, pepper, and salt into a basin, add the egg and mix well with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Then pour in the milk and add the parsley, tarragon, and chervil. Allow this batter to stand for 15 minutes if possible. Then melt a small piece of butter in an omelet pan, pour in the batter, -and quickly spread it over the pan. Brown it on both sides like a pancake, and turn out on kitchen paper, roll it up and cut across in fine shreds with a sharp knife. Put the clear stock into a saucepan, bring it to the boil and add the pancake shreds. Notes.—Sometimes a little grated Parmesan is added to the batter. If tarragon and chervil cannot be obtained, about \ teaspoonful of dried herbs may be used, but they must be very finely powdered. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 120. Clear Game Soup (ConsommS Chasseur) Take any good game stock and clear it according to the directions given for Consomme (Recipe 117). Serve it with small game quenelles. 121, Soup Jelly (ConsommS FrappS) Clear soup is very good cold, served in cups for luncheon or supper. It should be perfectly clear and very delicate in flavour. Not too stiff, but just a melting jelly. A simple garnish may be added if liked, or the jelly may be flavoured with a little fight wine. 122. Clear Mock Turtle Soup (Consomm6 de Fausse Tortue) £ calf’s head. 1J lbs. shin of beef. 1 carrot. 2 onions. 1 turnip. J lb. lean ham. 4 qts. cold water. Salt. A bunch of herbs. 6 cloves. A blade of mace. 20 peppercorns. \ tea-sp. celery seed. Juice of \ orange. 1 glass sherry or mar- sala. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Garnish.—Egg balls, pieces of calf’s head. Prepare the head as directed in Recipe 144. After the head is boned, put the bones and flesh, the latter tied in a piece of muslin, into a large sauce- pan with the shin of beef and ham cut in small pieces and the cold water. Add a little salt and bring slowly to the boil. Skim well, and add the vegetables cut in small pieces, the bunch of herbs, and spices and celery seed tied in a piece of muslin. Let the soup simmer slowly from 8 to 9 hours until reduced to half the quantity, and remove any scum that may rise. Then strain through a hair sieve or cloth and let it stand until cold. ' Next day remove the fat carefully from the top of the stock and clear it with the whites and shells of eggs as directed for consomme (see Recipe 117). Reheat the soup, adding seasoning to taste, wine and orange juice, and serve with small pieces of the head cut in dice and egg balls (see Recipe 128). Note.—If some good second stock is, available for making the soup, the shin of beef might be omitted. In that case it would be better to use £ lb. lean beef for clearing and only one white of egg. Time to cook, 8 to 9 hours first day ; 30 to 40 minutes second day. Probable cost, 4s. to 5s. Quantity, 2 quarts. 123. Clear Mulligatawny Soup (Consomm6 l’lndienne) 2 oz. lean ham. 1 oz. butter. Juice of \ lemon. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Pepper, salt. 1 lump of sugar. Some pieces of cooked rabbit or chicken. 3 pts. second stock. 1 apple or 1 stick of rhubarb. 2 onions. 1 leek. 1 dessert-sp. curry pow- der. 1 tea-sp. curry paste. A little chutney. Peel, core, and chop the apple, skin and slice the onion, and prepare and slice the leek. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and add the vegetables to it with the curry powder, curry paste, chutney, ham chopped rather finely, pepper, and salt. Cook for a short time, stirring almost constantly, but do not let the contents brown. Pour in the stock, mix well, and simmer gently from 1 to 1| hours. Then pour the soup into a basin and let it stand until cold. Remove all grease from the top, and return the soup to the saucepan with the egg shells and whites slightly beaten. Whisk over the fire with a wire whisk until boiling, then remove the whisk, and let the soup boil well up in the pan. Draw the pan to the side of the fire, put on the fid or cover with a plate and let it stand 10 minutes. Then strain as directed for consomme (see Recipe