453 COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS in which a little gold and silver leaf has been mixed, and let this set. To Make the Mixture.—Make 3 gills of good tea, strong and clear without having stood too long. Put it into a lined saucepan with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and gelatine, and stir them carefully over the fire until they thicken without boiling. Then strain this tea custard into a basin and allow it to cool. Whip the cream, and stir it lightly in along with the brandy. When the mixture is beginning to set, pour it into the prepared mould and place it in a cool place to set. Turn out when wanted, and garnish with fern leaves. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 2045. Charlotte a la B6atrice Finger biscuits. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. chocolate. 1 table-sp. sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. I oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. 1 gill cream. 1 table-sp. liqueur. Apricot sauce. 1 table-sp. chopped pistachio nuts. Take a plain souffle tin, put a round of oiled paper at the bottom, line the sides with trimmed finger biscuits. To Prepare the Mixture for Filling.—Grate the chocolate and dissolve it in the milk. Mix the yolks of eggs and sugar in a basin, and pour the hot chocolate gradually on to them. Strain back into the saucepan, and stir the mixture carefully over the fire to cook the yolks of eggs, but without letting it boil. When ready, pour into a cold basin, add the gelatine dissolved in the water, and flavour with liqueur or any other flavouring preferred. Whip the cream, and stir it in lightly at the last. Fill up the lined mould, and set aside until cold. When required, turn out, mask with the following sauce, and sprinkle with a few chopped pistachio nuts. Sauce. h pt. apricot puree. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. arrowroot. Flavouring. 2 or 3 drops carmine. To Make the Sauce.—Use tinned apricots, and rub sufficient through a hair sieve to make pint of puree. Use some of the syrup along with the fruit, as the puree must not be too thick. Put this pur6e into a saucepan, and add to it the arrowroot broken with a little of the syrup. Stir over the fire until boiling, and cook 5 minutes. Add the sugar, colouring, and flavouring the same as in pudding mixture. Use when cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. 2046. Charlotte a la Malakoff C or 7 finger biscuits. 1 lb. ground almonds. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. A little kirsch or rum. i pt. double cream. Vanilla. Take a plain souffle or charlotte mould, IJ-pint size, place a round of greased paper at the bottom, and line the sides with finger biscuits in the same way as for Charlotte Russe (Recipe 2002). To Prepare the Filling.—Put the almonds into a mortar and pound them well with the sugar, a few drops of vanilla, and a little kirsch or rum. Add the butter, slightly warmed, but not melted. and pound well until a nice creamy mixture is formed. Put this into a basin, whip the cream, and add it to the almond mixture, reserving a little for decoration. Mix very lightly, and fill up the prepared mould. Set on ice until firm and required for use. The setting of the cream depends on the stiffening of the butter, and ice is a necessity. When ready, turn out and decorate the top with the remainder of the cream, sweetened and flavoured and put through a forcing bag. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. 2047. Caramel Chestnuts in Cases 6 oz. prepared chestnuts. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. cake-crumbs. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. brandy or liqueur. 1 table-sp. cream. A little rice flour. 6 oz. loaf sugar. J gill water. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Pistachio nuts. Remove both the outer and inner brown skin from at least \ lb. chestnuts, put them into a saucepan with the milk, and allow them to simmer slowly until tender. Then rub them through a fine wire sieve and measure 6 oz. Put this pre- pared chestnut into a basin, add to it the castor sugar, cake-crumbs, and cream, and flavour with brandy, liqueur, or any other flavouring preferred. Form the mixture into small balls about the size of a walnut, using a little rice flour to prevent its sticking to the hands. Allow these to dry for a short time whilst preparing the caramel. Put the loaf sugar, water, and lemon juice into a saucepan, and let them boil without stirring until they turn a golden brown oolour. Dip the bottom of the saucepan at once in cold water to prevent the caramel burning, and then dip the little balls quickly into it. Lay them on a greased plate, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts. When cold, place each one in a small paper case and serve as a dessert. Probable cost, Is. 2048. Petits Choux & la Creme (Cream Cakes) Choux pastry. 'Whipped and flavoured cream. Make the choux pastry (Recipe 1450), and put it into a forcing bag, with a tin pipe or nozzle of at least 1- inch in diameter at the end of it. Grease a baking tin, and force out the pastry on to it in little mounds about the size of half an egg. Hold the bag perpendicularly, the point to begin with almost touching the baking sheet. As each heap is finished, disengage the forcer by giving it a sharp twist and jerk. Be particular to make the choux all one size and not too large. Keep them some distance apart from each other on the tin, as they will rise considerably in baking. Bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. When the choux are ready, remove them from the baking tin, and allow them to cool upon a sieve or draining tray. Make a small hole in the top of each with a sharp-pointed knife, and fill them with whipped and flavoured cream put through a forcing bag. Sprinkle with a little fine sugar. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 1 dozen choux. Probable cost, Is.