19 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD Daily Cleaning.—The fire should be well raked out every day, the top of the stove brushed with the sweep’s brush and polished with the stove brushes. Black-leading should not be required more than once a week, except perhaps on those parts which are most used. Dust the tiles and rub up the steel parts with emery paper, or wipe them with a soft duster, and then clean the hearth. If properly done the flues should not, as a rule, require cleaning more than once a week, but if a large fire is kept constantly burning it may be neces- sary to brush over the top of the oven more fre- quently. Sometimes, too, in the case of small stoves, the flues require more frequent attention. This must be regulated according to how the stove burns. The Chimney.—The kitchen chimney should be swept every six months at least; some will require cleaning every three months. COOKING BY GAS There is no doubt that, if thoroughly understood and properly managed, a gas stove can be a great saving of time, labour, and expense. The. economy as regards the working expenses of a gas versus a coal stove is not all that has to be considered, as this will depend to a large extent upon how the stove is used, and also upon the current price of coal. But it is the saving of time and labour which are the strongest points in favour of gas, and these two mean money; in fact, if time is of any value at all a gas stove will repay its original cost in a very short time. A gas stove is especially useful in flats where ladies very often have to do all their own work, or the greater part of it, themselves, and where actual labour must be reduced to a minimum. In small houses, also, where a gas stove and gas fires are fitted up, one servant may often suffice, where certainly two would be required if a kitchen range' and coal fires had to be kept clean and burning. And again, in larger establishments the services of one servant might often be dispensed with if the work of the others were made lighter with gas cooking and heating appliances. Then there is the great advantage of cleanliness; no smoke and dust, as from a coal stove, to soil the kitchen and everything it contains, not to speak of blackened saucepans and soiled hands : with a gas stove the labour of cleaning can be reduced at least one half. In hot weather, too, a gas stove will be found a great comfort, as it will save the excessive heat of a constantly burning coal fire, and the exhaustion which results from having to cook under such trying conditions. Many houses, especially those where only one maid is kept, or perhaps no maid at all, would be infinitely better without the ugly black range, which entails so much labour in stoking and clean- ing, and in the end provides a very inadequate supply of hot water and has to be supplemented with a gas stove as far as cooking is concerned. In its place, why not have a small open fireplace or well-grate where a fire can be lit when warmth in the kitchen is required for the maids’ comfort, and then do all the cooking by gas ? The hot wat^r difficulty can be overcome by the introduc- tion of a hot-water “ Circulator.” This is a copper boiler heated by gas which can easily be connected to the “ flow ” and “ return ” pipes from the coal- range boiler, and will then, with a quite moderate Hot-water Circulator consumption of gas, supply hot water to the circu- lating tank, either independently of, or in con- junction with, the coal-range boiler, the working of the latter, in the event of the kitchen fire being lighted, being in no way interfered with. These circulators are specially adapted for use in flats, and in villas where the length of the circulating pipes are not abnormal. These circulators can be had in different sizes to suit various requirements, and can either be hired, bought on the hire-purchase system, or bought outright, as is found most convenient. Full particulars as regards price and fitting can be obtained from any of the gas company’s offices. Of course, the initial cost of some of these appli- ances may be found somewhat heavy, and when a house is only rented one is inclined to hesitate at the outlay, but the convenience and comfort must be weighed against this, and when it can be contrived the use of gas both for cooking and water heating will be found a very economical way of managing. Choice of Stove.—Gas stoves can be had in differ- ent sizes and various makes. Improvements are constantly being made, and there is great com- petition among the different makers as to who will produce the most perfect article. Before buying a gas stove it is a good plan to go to one of the gas company’s offices or exhibitions, where all the different kinds of stoves are displayed, and where they can often be seen in actual use. Failing this, a fully illustrated catalogue should be sent for, and a stove, which best suits the requirements of the household, carefully selected. Those with an enamelled lining in the oven and an enamelled plate under the burners are the easiest to clean and the most hygienic. Many of the newest makes have a plate rack fitted above the burners, which is most useful for warming dishes. Then care should be taken to select a stove that is a convenient height for working at; in some of them the oven is placed so low that it occasions a great deal of unnecessary stooping ; but fortunately the tendency nowadays is to raise them well above