POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 279 5 minutes. Although this improves the colour of the fricassee, it cannot be said toimprove the flavour. When the pieces of chicken are ready, put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, and add pepper, salt, the bunch of herbs, and white onions. A little white wine may also be added if wished. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly until the chicken is tender, skimming when necessary, then strain and reserve the stock. Now melt the butter in the saucepan and mix in the flour without allowing them to take colour. Pour in the liquid from the chicken and stir until boiling. If the sauce is too thick, thin it down with a little water or milk. Add the mushrooms cut in small pieces, and cook slowly for 15 minutes. Then re- move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Return the pieces of chicken to reheat, but do not boil again. Serve neatly, garnishing the dish with small croutons of bread or pastry, and tiny sprigs of parsley. Notes.—Small forcemeat balls, or little baked tomatoes, are also nice as a garnish. A little cream may be added to the above sauce if wished, or a plainer fricassde may be made by omitting the yolks of eggs and mushrooms. Stewed rice or macaroni, or mashed potatoes, are good accompani- ments to this dish. A fricassee is very good cooked in an earthenware pot and served en casserole. Time to cook, about li hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. them quickly from 12 to 15 minutes and then lift them out with a draining spoon. Time to stew fowl, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1136. Stewed Fowl with Onions (Poulet a la Lyonnaise) 1 fowL 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 pt. boiling water. 2 tea-sps. Bo vril or Liebig 1£ doz. small white onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Prepare and truss the fowl as for boiling (see p. 276). Melt 2 oz. butter or dripping in a deep stewpan, and, when very hot, put in the fowl, which should be quite dry. Turn it over and over until well browned on all sides, then add the water mixed with the Bovril or Liebig. Put on the lid and place the saucepan in a moderate oven until the fowl is quite tender. Meanwhile prepare the onions and brown them quickly in a little hot butter. Sprinkle them with sugar and drain. About half an hour before the fowl’is ready add the onions and allow the two to finish cooking together. When ready, serve the fowl on a hot dish, removing all trussing threads, and arrange the onions round. Reduce the gravy if necessary, strain and serve it separately. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1134. Stewed Fowl with Dumplings 1 small fowl. Cold water. 1 onion. 2 or 3 sticks celery. 1 bay-leaf. 1 or 2 sprigs parsley, oz. butter. 1£ oz. flour. \ pt. milk. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Dumplings. See below. Cut the fowl in small neat joints as directed on p. 276. Wash these carefully, place them in a stewpan with cold water to cover them, and bring them slowly to the boil. Skim well, add 1 tea- spoonful salt, the celery, and onion cut in small pieces, bay-leaf, and sprigs of parsley. Put the lid on the saucepan, and simmer all slowly until the fowl is tender. Then lift out the joints and strain J pint of the broth to make the sauce. To Make the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the flour and mix it in smoothly. Then pour on the milk and £ pint of broth and stir until boiling. Add the chopped parsley and more seasoning if necessary. Put in the pieces of fowl, allow them to thoroughly reheat in the sauce, and then serve on a hot dish with the dumplings round. 1135. Dumplings for Stewed Fowl | lb. flour. 1 oz. butter, I £ tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. | A little milk. Pass the flour, baking powder, and salt through a very fine sieve into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then make into a dough with a little milk. Turn this on to a floured board, roll out, and cut into small rounds. Drop these into the liquid left in the saucepan in which the fowl was cooked, adding some boiling water if there is not sufficient broth to cook the dumplings. Cook 1137. Chicken a la Cardinal (Poulet a la Cardinal) 1 chicken. Some white stock. 1 gill button mushrooms. I pint tomato sauce. 1 doz. cherry tomatoes. Pepper and salt. Cut the chicken into neat joints, and put it into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover it. Simmer gently from 1 to 11 hours until the chicken is quite tender. Add the tomato sauce (see Re- cipe 705), which must be very thick, and cook a few minutes longer. Then lift out the pieces of chicken, and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Reduce the sauce, if necessary, until it is thick enough to coat the pieces of chicken, and then strain it over the joints. Garnish the dish with small cherry tomatoes, which have been cooked in the oven but not broken, and button mushrooms sauted in a little butter. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1138. Chicken a la Hongroise (Poulet a la Hongroise) 1 tender fowl or chicken. 2 oz. butter. 6 oz. rice. 3 gills light stock. 2 onions. A bunch of herbs. 2 or 3 tablc-sps. tomato puree. Salt. Pepper. Cut the chicken into small neat joints as directed on p. 276. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the pieces of cliicken, and turn them over and over until brown on all sides. Then lift them out, and put into the same saucepan the rice well washed and dry. Stir until the rice begins to turn yellow, then add the stock, seasoning, the onions cut in very thin slices or chopped, the hunch of herbs and the puree of tomatoes, made by rubbing 2 or 3 tomatoes through a fine sieve. When the rice