339 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES To Serve.—Remove the pastry from the top and place it upside down on a clean dish, and turn tho meat part carefully out on the top of this. Tf it is inclined to stick, dip the dish into hot water for a moment, and then loosen round the edges. Garnish round the sides of the pie with some nice salad and serve cold. Note.—This makes a nice supper or luncheon dish. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4s. to 4s. 6d. 1455. Chicken and Ham Pie, Hot (Pat6 Chaud de Volaille) 1 tender chicken. 3 or 4 oz. ham or bacon. 2 hard-boiled eggs. | lemon. Salt, pepper. A little grated nutmeg. Forcemeat balls. Stock. Rough-pufl or flaky pastry. Prepare the chicken and ham as in last recipe, seasoning them with the grated rind and juice of 4 lemon, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Then make some small balls with Veal Forcemeat (see Recipe 1288), and arrange the meat in a pie dish, mixing the balls with it. Put the hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces on the top, pour in a little stock, and then cover the pie according to directions given on p. 337. Time to bake, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4s. to 4s. 6d. 1456. Cold Meat Pie Very good pies can be made from the remains of cold cooked meat. The meat may either be cut in small thin slices or minced. A mixture of meats may be used, and a little pickled or salted meat, such as bacon, ham, tongue, &c., used along with fresh meat, will always help to give flavour. Seasoning should be added according to the kind of meat used. Then the meat should be moistened with some very good gravy or sauce. Remains of brown, tomato, curry sauce, &e., can all be utilised for this purpose, and will only help to make the pie more savoury. When using white meat, such as veal, rabbit, or chicken, a good white sauce, parsley sauce, caper sauce, &c., can be used. Then again, if there is not sufficient meat to fill the pie-dish required, some cooked vegetable, rice, or macaroni may be added. Cooked potatoes, carrot, turnip, celery, Jerusalem artichokes, &c., are all suitable for the purpose, also well-cooked haricot beans, cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, or boiled rice. With these two latter a little more sauce or gravy should be used, or otherwise the pie would be inclined to be dry. Hard-boiled eggs cut in pieces, sliced tomatoes, or a few mushrooms would also add to the goodness of the dish. Almost any kind of unsweetened pastry may be used for covering a pie of this kind. It should be rolled rather thinner than for a pie made of un- cooked meat, as the cooking will not be such a lengthy process. This kind of pie should be served very hot, and garnished with a little fresh parsley. 1457. Duck Pie 1 duck. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 2 table-sps. dripping or bacon fat. (P&t6 de Canard) 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. Salt, pepper. 3 or 4 parboiled potatoes Rough-pufl pastry. Cut the duck in small neat joints, keeping back any trimmings and skin to make some gravy. Wash the trimmings and put them into a sauce- pan with cold water to cover, a small onion, a bunch of herbs, and a little salt. Allow these to simmer slowly while the pie is cooking, and then strain ready for use. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a frying pan, when smoking hot put in the pieces of duck and fry them a nice brown colour. Then lift them out, draining them well from the fat. Now brown the chopped onion in the fat, and drain that also. Mix the onion with the duck along with the powdered sage and a liberal sprink- ling of pepper and salt. Cut tho parboiled potatoes in slices, and arrange the duck and the potatoes in layers in a pie dish, piling them high in the centre. Pour in a little water and cover the pie with rough- puff or any other suitable pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. Bake in a good oven, being careful to keep the hole in the top well open. When ready, fill up with some of the gravy from the trimmings and serve hot garnished with parsley. Note.—A little sage and onion stuffing (Recipe 1278) may, if liked, be mixed with the joints of duck. The other onion and sage will not then be required. Time to bake, 14 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 3s. to 3s. 6d. 1458. Giblet Pie 2 or 3 sets giblets. 1 lb. beef steak. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 shallot. Pepper, salt. A pinch of mace. (P&tS aux Abatis) A pinch of nutmeg. J pt. stock. 2 or 3 oz. bacon. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. To Prepare the Giblets.—The giblets comprise the gizzard, liver, heart, head, neck, feet, and the pinions of the wings of a bird. Goose giblets are perhaps the best for making a pie, but those of a fowl, duck, turkey, &c., can all be used. Cut the gall-bag and any green parts carefully from the liver. Cut lightly through the whitest part of the gizzard, and remove the bag of stones from the inside, then pull off all fat and loose pieces of skin. Scald the feet and skin them, removing the claws, scald the head also, removing the eyes, beak, and all feathers, and then split the skull in two. Wash all the parts carefully, using a little salt in the water to get rid of the blood. When thoroughly clean, cut them in pieces and put them in a stew- pan with the stock. (There should be enough to cover them.) Allow them to cook slowly from f to 1 hour, according to the kind of giblets used. If the stock is not well-flavoured, or if water has to be used, a few small pieces of flavouring vegetables and a bunch of herbs should be added. When sufficiently cooked, strain the giblets and reserve the stock to make gravy for the pie. Cut the beef in small tbin strips, dip these in flour seasoned with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of mace, then roll them up with a little chopped shallot inside. Place these little rolls at