COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 402 ' 39 lumps. Add the currants and raisins carefully prepared. Beat up the yolks of eggs with 2 table- spoonfuls of milk, and hind the dry ingredients to- gether with this, making a softish dough. Heat the second lot of milk, butter, and sugar in a saucepan, put in the dough mixture in spoonfuls, cover the saucepan, and cook slowly until the dampf nudeln are ready. They should be tested with a skewer, which should come out clean. Serve very hot, sprinkled with sugar. Custard or whipped cream may be handed separately. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1766. Date Pudding J lb. dates. 2 oz. sugar. 3 oz. suet. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 ofc. flour. 1 egg. | tea-sp. mixed spice. £ tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. treacle. Stone the dates and cut them in small pieces. Remove all skin from the suet, shred it finely and then weigh it. Chop it finely with a knife, sprink- ling it with the flour to prevent its sticking to the board. Then mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg well beaten, the treacle slightly warmed, and enough milk to make all of a softish consistency. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with lemon or any other suitable sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1767. Delaware Pudding Suet crust. 1 or 2 apples. 1 oz. currants. 1 oz. candied peel. i lemon. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 2 oz. Demerara sugar. First prepare the mixture. Peel, core, and chop the apples finely. Clean the currants and shred the peel. Mix all these together in a basin with the spice. Put the sugar and butter on to a plate, grate the lemon rind over, and work them well together with a knife. Then add them to the other ingredients in the basin, strain the lemon juice over, and mix again. Grease a If pt. basin and make some suet crust according to directions given on p. 333. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and cut it out in rounds to fit the basin with a cutter or saucepan lid. Put first a round of pastry into the basin, then a spoonful of the mixture, another round of pastry, and so on until the basin is full. Make the last layer pastry, covering well over. Cover the basin with a scalded and floured cloth, and tie it firmly on. Plunge the pudding into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil quickly the required time. When ready, turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with or without sauce. Note.—This pudding may be steamed instead of boiled, but longer time must be allowed to cook it. Time to boil, at least 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8c?. 1768. Dough Dumplings Take any bread dough left over from baking, and divide it in pieces the size of a small egg. Drop these into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, and allow them to boil quickly for \ an hour, or until the dough is thoroughly cooked. Lift them out with a draining spoon, and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Serve with syrup or jam. $ lb. figs. 6 oz. suet. £ lb. bread-crumbs, | lb. flour. | lb. sugar. 1769. Fig Pudding, 1 1 or 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. A pinch of salt. \ tea-sp. baking powder. £ pt. milk. Soak the figs in boiling water for ten minutes, then dry them and cut them in small pieces, removing the stalks. Sieve the flour into a basin, add the suet finely chopped, the sugar, bread- crumbs, spices, baking powder, and salt, and mix all lightly together with the fingers. Then add the figs, mix again, and make a well in the centre. Beat the eggs in another basin, and pour them into the centre of the dry ingredients. Add also the milk, and stir well together. Pour the mixture into a greased mould or basin, cover with a lid or piece of greased paper, and steam steadily until well cooked. Serve with custard, white, or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10c?. 1770. Fig Pudding, 2 \ lb. figs. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. flour. 2 eggs. Grated rind 1 lemon. 2 oz. chopped almonds. A pinch of salt. A pinch of nutmeg. £ tea-sp. cinnamon. | tea-sp. baking powder. 1 glass sherry. Prepare the figs as in last recipe and cut them in small pieces. Cream the butter and sugar until of a light creamy consistency, and then add the eggs and flour by degrees. Beat again for a few minutes and add the other ingredients. If not sufficiently moist, add a little milk or another egg, cr the sherry may be omitted and milk only used. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, and steam steadily the required time. When ready, turn out and serve with custard or sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4c?. 1771. A Boiled or Steamed Fruit Pudding Suet crust. Fruit. Sugar. Flavouring. Almost any kind of fruit may be used for this pudding, or a mixture of fruits if preferred. For the preparation of the fruit, see under Fruit Tart, p. 354. Make the suet crust according to direc- tions given on p. 333, and roll it out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Grease a basin and line it with the pastry. Press the pastry well on to the sides of the basin, and try to keep it of a uniform thickness. Cut off the trimmings, and roll them out in a round shape, large enough to cover the pudding. Fill up the basin with the fruit, sugar, and flavouring, pressing them well