578 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Is. 9d. ready for the cake. Beat the butter to a light Put a thick layer of cleaned and picked currants on half these rounds, sprinkle with sugar, flavour with grated nutmeg, and moisten with brandy. Moisten round the edges of the pastry with a little white of egg or water, cover with another round of pastry, and press the edges well together. Orna- ment round the edges with the back of a knife or end of a teaspoon, brush over with the white of egg, and sprinkle with sugar. Place the cakes on a tin slightly sprinkled with cold water, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. Sprinkle the cakes again with sugar, after removing them from the oven, and serve them hot. Time to bake, about § hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. each. 2777. Dough Cake J quartern of dough, j lb. currants. | lb sultanas. \ lb. sugar. 2 eggs. | nutmeg grated. & tea-sp. cinnamon. 6 oz. butter. The dough may either be bought from the baker or made according to directions given for Household Bread (see Recipe 2646, half quantity). Put the dough into a basin, add the butter slightly warmed, the eggs well beaten, the fruit carefully prepared, and the other ingredients. Knead all together with the hand until the ingredients are well blended. Put the mixture into a greased cake tin, cover it over, and put it in a warm place to rise for about 1 hour. Then bake in a moderate oven until the cake is nicely risen and firm to the touch. Note.—The fruit and flavouring may be varied according to taste. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2778. Fig Cake l lb. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg. \ doz. large figs, i tea-sp. spice. \ lb. sugar. 1 gill milk. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 1 tea-sp. cream of tartar. Grated rind of 1 lemon. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. Soak the figs for a short time in hot water, then dry them, cut them in pieces, removing the stalks and any discoloured parts,'and mix the pieces with a little of the flour. Cream the butter in a basin, add the sugar, grated lemon rind, and egg, and mix them well together. Sieve the flour, cream of tartar, spice, and carbonate of soda on to a piece of paper, and stir them gradually into the other mixture along with the milk. Beat all together for a minute or two and add the figs at the last. Bake the mixture in a flat tin until well risen and firm to the touch. When sufficiently cooked, brush the cake over with a little sugar and water, sprinkle it with the chopped almonds, and return it to the oven to brown. When required, cut in small squares or finger-shaped pieces. Time to bake, \ to J hour. Probable cost, 9d. 2779. Genoa Cake 10 oz. flour. | lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. 4 eggs. | lb. sultanas. 1 lb. currants. 10 oz. candied peel. 4 oz. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Grated rind of 1 lemon. First prepare the fruit, and line a cake tin creamy consistency, sieve the sugar on the top, and mix well together. Add the flour and eggs by degrees, and beat all together for 15 minutes. Add the fruit at the last (reserving a few of the almonds), with the baking powder and grated lemon rind, mix lightly, but do not beat again. Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, brush the top of the cake over with white of egg, sprinkle it with the remainder of the almonds, and return to the oven for a few minutes to brown the almonds. Allow the cake to remain in the tin for a few minutes before turning it out, then cool on a wire stand. Time to bake, 1J to 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 3d. 2780. German Cakes \ lb. flour. | l tea-sp. ground ginger. | lb. butter. 1 egg. \ tea-sp. ground cinna- 1 tea-sp. baking powder. mon. J lb. castor sugar. | Some jam. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Beat up the egg in a smaller basin and add it to the other mixture, forming all into a Easte. Turn out on a floured board and knead ghtly until free from cracks. Then divide the paste into two equal-sized pieces and roll them into rounds the size of a dinner plate. Grease an old plate that will stand the heat of the oven, or a tin of similar shape and size, and line it with one of the pieces of paste. Spread the jam at the foot, and wet round the edges. Lay the other piece of paste on the top, and press the two edges well together. Trim and mark round the edges with a knife. Brush over with a little white of egg or water, and dredge with sugar. Bake the cake in a moderate oven, and when ready, cut in triangular- shaped pieces, and serve hot if possible. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, lOd. 2781. German Pound Cake 6 oz. butter. 6 oz. castor sugar. 10 oz. flour. Grated rind of J lemon. | lb. sultanas. | lb. candied peel. 5 eggs. | tea-sp. baking powder. First prepare the fruit (see p. 551) and mix it with 1 table-spoonful of the flour. Then beat the butter to a cream, sieve the sugar on the top, and mix well together. Add the grated lemon rind, one egg, and a little of the flour sieved, and mix well for a few minutes. Add the second egg and a little more flour, and so on, repeating this process until all the eggs and flour have been added. Beat all together for about 10 minutes, lifting the mixture well up in the spoon so as to introduce some air. Mix in the fruit and baking powder at the last, but do not beat again, or the fruit will be inclined to fall in the baking. Pour the mixture into a lined cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until thor oughly cooked and nicely browned. When ready, remove the cake from the oven, allow it to stand a few minutes, then turn on to a wire stand to cool. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost,