COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 438 as directed for Snow Eggs (Recipe 2023). Then make a custard with the yolks and the milk, and sweeten and flavour to taste. Pour the custard over the sago, and pile the snow eggs on the top. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1963. Semolina a l’Americaine 1 table-sp. semolina. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. . Flavouring. 2 table-sps. red currant or cranberry jelly. Put the semolina,milk, and butter into a saucepan and bring them slowly to the boil, stirring occasion- ally. Cook 5 or 10 minutes and then remove the saucepan from the fire. Add the sugar, chopped almonds, yolks of eggs, and flavouring, and mix well together. Pom the mixture into a glass or china dish and let it cool. Beat up the whites of eggs and jelly to a stiff froth, and pile it on the top of the pudding. Serve cold, with claret or any other suitable sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1964. Snow Pudding 1 pt. milk. 1 glass sherry. -t oz. gelatine. A few drops vanilla. 3 oz. sugar. 2 whites of eggs. Put the milk, sugar, and gelatine into a lined saucepan and let them stand by the side of the fire until dissolved. Then strain into a basin and cool. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and add them to the milk, &c., with the sherry and vanilla. Now whip all together until stiff, put into a glass bowl and when about to serve decorate with a little whipped cream, or serve custard sauce separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1965. Tapioca and Almond Mould 2 table-sps. sugar. 2 eggs. 2 or 3 drops ratafia essence. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. small tapioca. 2 table-sps. chopped almonds. A pinch of salt. Put the milk into a saucepan to boil, add a pinch of salt and sprinkle in the tapioca like rain. Simmer slowly until the tapioca turns quite clear. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar, yolks of eggs, almonds, and flavouring. Lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Rinse a mould with cold water, sprinkle it with sugar, and pour in the mixture. Set in a cool place until firm. Then turn out and serve with fruit or custard sauce. Note.—Other chopped nuts may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1966. Tapioca Custard Cream 2 table-sps. tapioca. 1 gill water. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 3 or 4 drops ratafia essence. 2 table-sps. jam. 2 table-sps. macaroon crumbs. Wash the tapioca and soak it in the water for h hour. Then put it into a saucepan with the milk and butter, and cook it gently until soft. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the sugar, the eggs well beaten, and the ratafia essence. Allow the mixture to cool. Put the jam into a glass dish, pour the tapioca on the top and sprinkle with the macaroon crumbs. Serve cold. Note.—1 or 2 table-spoonfuls whipped cream may be added to the mixture if wished. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1967. Tapioca and Orange Cream 3 oz. tapioca. l 2 oz. sugar. 1 pt. water. 3 oranges. | 1 gill double cream. Soak the tapioca in the water for 2 or 3 hours, then put it into a saucepan with the grated rind of 2 oranges and allow it to simmer slowly until it turns quite clear and is thoroughly cooked. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar and the strained juice of the 3 oranges. Allow the mixture to cool and pour it into a glass dish. Whip the cream, add sugar and flavouring to taste, and pile it on the top of the tapioca when it is quite cold. Decorate with small pieces of preserved fruits or sprinkle with pink sugar. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9c2. PART II JELLIES AND SPONGES 1968. Lemon Jelly (GeI6e au Citron) \ pt. lemon juice. 1| pts. cold water. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 1 inch of cinnamon stick. 4 cloves. 2 oz. leaf gelatine. The rind of 2 lemons. 2 whites and shells of eggs. To Prepare the Ingredients.—Take a clean lined saucepan, and put into it the water, gelatine, sugar, cinnamon stick, and cloves. Wipe the lemons with a damp cloth, and peel the rind very thinly off two of them. Do not peel off any of the white part, as this would give the jelly a bitter taste. Then roll the lemons on the table to soften them, cut them in halves, and squeeze out the juice until there is half a pint. Strain this into the saucepan and add the lemon rind and the whites and shells of eggs. The latter should be washed and crushed. The pan should not be more than half full, as the jelly is very apt to boil over. To Clear and Strain the Jelly.—Take a wire whisk, and whisk the jelly over the fire until a good froth rises, and it is just beginning to boil. If it is whisked after it comes to the boil, the scum is driven down through it again. Watch the jelly carefully, and let it boil up as high as it will without boiling over. Then draw the pan gently to one side of the fire, where it will keep warm without simmering, and cover it with a lid or plate. Let it stand for 10 minutes, and then strain. Any kind of cloth will do for straining it through, so long as it is not too close in texture, and is kept for the purpose. Tie the cloth to a jelly stand or the four legs of a kitchen chair turned upside down, and let it sink in the middle so as to