COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 536 move all fat and sldn from it, and put it through the mincing machine yourself. Do not buy for an invalid the ready-prepared mince from a shop, as it has too much fat in it. Take a small lined stewpan, put the minced beef into it, with half the water and the seasoning. Put the pan on the stove, and pound the meat well with a spoon for a few minutes, until it loses its red appearance. Then add the rest of the water, and simmer gently by the side of the fire until the meat is tender. The greatest care must be taken that the meat is not allowed to cook too quickly. Remove any grease that may rise on the surface, and add the bread-crumbs 10 minutes before serving. Garnish the dish with some neat sippets of toasted or fried bread, and serve very hot. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. or 8 d. 2538. Raw Beef Sandwiches Take 2 oz. of lean, juicy beef. Wipe it with a cloth, and with a sharp knife shred it down as finely as you would for beef-tea. Pound this in a mortar, if possible, with any seasoning that may be allowed, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Spread between thin slices of bread, with a little butter on it, if it is allowed, and cut it into neat strips. These sandwiches are generally ordered for special cases. 2539. Raw Beef Balls or Steaks \ lb. lean juicy beef. I Cream or beef-tea. A pinch of salt. | A little butter. Prepare the beef as for beef-tea, shredding it down and removing all stringy parts. Then rub it through a sieve. Season it very lightly with salt, and add a few drops of cream or beef-tea, not more than about \ tea-spoonful. Form the mix- ture into small balls the size of a marble, place them in a frying pan that has been made hot and greased with a little butter, and shake them over a good heat until the outside only has lost its red colour. The inside must remain quite raw, in fact sometimes even the outside browning is prohibited. Probable cost, 4d. 2540. Stewed Calf’s Foot 1 calf’s foot. J pt. milk and water. A small bunch of herbs. 2 sticks of celery. Rind of J lemon. | oz. butter, f oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Seasoning. Wash the foot, cut it in pieces, and blanch it. Then put it into a lined saucepan with equal quan- tities of milk and water to cover it, and add a small bunch of herbs, the thinly peeled rind of £ lemon, 1 or 2 sticks of celery cut in small pieces, and a little salt. Put the lid on the pan, and cook slowly until the flesh slips away easily from the bone of the foot. Then strain, and cut the flesh in small pieces. Now melt the butter in a clean saucepan, and stir in the flour; pour on a cupful of the liquid in which the foot was cooked, and stir until boiling. Season to taste, add the chopped parsley and pieces of foot; cook a few minutes longer, and serve very hot. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, 8d. 2541. Stewed Chicken \ a chicken. | pt. water or white stock. 1 stick of celery. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 yolk of egg. Pepper and salt. Cut the chicken into neat joints. Remove as much of the skin as possible, and wipe the pieces with a damp cloth. Put them into a small lined stewpan, with enough water or white stock to cover them—about 1 pint. Add pepper and salt, and a small stick of celery well washed and brushed, and cut into shreds, or, if not in season, use celery salt or celery seed. A small slice of onion may be used instead of celery. Put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly until the meat is tender. When sufficiently cooked, lift the joints ;<fut on to a hot dish, and keep them warm. Put the arrowroot into a small basin, and break it with a little cold water. Add this to the stock in the pan, stir over the fire until boiling, and boil for 5 minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in the yolk of egg, but do not boil again. The sauce should be thick enough to coat the pieces of chicken, but not too thick. One table-spoonful of cream may be used instead of the yolk of egg, but both may be omitted. Rolls of bacon may be served along with the chicken. Time to stew, 1 to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. to Is. 8d. 2542. Chicken The breast of'a chicken 1 gill new milk. A small blade of mace. Stewed in Milk 1 tea-sp. flour. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. Cut the chicken into small neat pieces, removing the skin. Put these into a jar with the milk, mace, pepper, and salt. Put a lid on the jar, or tie a piece of white greased paper over it, and place it in a saucepan with enough hot water to reach half- way up the sides. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer gently from 1 to 2 hours, or until the chicken feels quite tender. If the water boils down, more must be added. When sufficiently cooked, lift out the pieces of chicken on to a plate, and keep them hot. Pour the milk into a saucepan, and remove the mace from it. Break the flour with a little cold milk in a basin, and add it to the milk in the pan. Stir over the fire until it boils and thickens, and add more seasoning if necessary. Stir in the butter or one table-spoonful cream at the last. Pour this sauce over the pieces of chicken, to coat them nicely. Small rolls of bacon may be served round the dish. Time to cook, 1 to 2 hours. Probable cost, Is. to 1$. 3d. 2543. Steamed Fillets of Chicken Cut the fillets from the breast of a chicken, remove the skin, and season them with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Now place them on a well-greased plate (a deepish plate is best), cover them with greased paper, and put a lid or second plate on the top. Stand this over a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and cook steadily until the chicken is tender. Serve on a clean dish with the juice which has run from the chicken