532 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Wipe the meat and cut it in small pieces away from the bone. Remove any fat and marrow, and do not use them in the making of the jelly. Put the water into a large deep saucepan, and add the meat, bones, and calf’s foot to it. Sprinkle in also a little salt, but be careful not to over-salt the liquid at this stage. Put the lid on the pan, and bring slowly to the boil. Then simmer very slowly from 4 to 5 hours, until the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. Skim occasionally, and do not let the liquid go oS the simmering point. When ready, strain through a hair sieve or clean tea-cloth placed over a colander, and set in a cool place. It should be a jelly when cold. All fat must be re- moved from the top, and the jelly served in small quantities. Note.—If wished, the jelly stock may be warmed and served as a soup. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 2516. Tapioca or Sago Soap Make in the same way as rice soup, using tapioca or sago in place of rice. If large tapioca or sago is used, it must be soaked first in a little cold water, so as to make it cook more quickly. 2517. Tomato Soup 1 pt. light stock. 2 or 3 fresh tomatoes. A few parsley stalks. J tea-sp. fine tapioca. | tea-cupful of milk or 1 table-sp. cream. Salt to taste. Wipe the tomatoes with a wet cloth, cut them in pieces, and cook them in the stock until quite soft. Then rub through a fine sieve, keeping back the seeds and skins. Rinse the saucepan, and return the soup to it, and bring to the boil. Sprinkle in the tapioca, and cook slowly for about 10 minutes, or until it turns quite clear. Add the milk or cream and season to taste. A little celery salt may be added if liked. Serve with sippets of crisp toast; or the toast may be put into the soup bowl and the hot soup poured on to it. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 2518. Veal Broth A piece of knuckle or neck of veal may be pre- pared in the same way as for mutton broth, and makes a very delicately flavoured broth. Or, for variety, the broth may be made with half mu* on and half veal. Other Invalid Soups Many of the recipes in the “ Soups ” section of the book could also be used for invalids, especially those who are not suffering from a par- ticularly weak digestion. The flavouring can always be modified to suit special requirements. Among other recipes the following might be men- tioned : Gravy Soup, Cock-a-I.eekie, Tripe Soup, Clear Soup, Artichoke Soup, Barley Soup, Eel Soup, Endive Soup, Almond Soup, Asparagus Soup, Potato Soup, Lettuce Cream Soup, Tapioca Cream, Velvet Soup, Sorrel Soup, Giblet Soup. PART II INVALID FISH AND VEGETABLE DISHES - INTRODUCTORY Fish is a valuable article of diet for invalids, as it is one of the lightest forms of solid food, and much less stimulating than meat. The whiting is one of the most suitable, as it is so delicate in flavour and tender in fibre. It is sometimes called the chicken of the sea. The sole is also very valuable, but it is much more expen- sive, and not always obtainable. Haddock, plaice, smelts, and lemon soles may also be given, in fact any of the white fish, although the larger kinds are often tougher in fibre. The oily or dark fleshed fish, such as herring, • j mackerel, salmon, &c., should, as a rule, be avoided, especially by those of a weak digestion. Oysters are said to be very digestible, and especi- ally in their raw state, and they are certainly nutritious, but they cannot be taken by everyone. There must be no doubt about the freshness of the fish that is given to an invalid, and, when possible, it should be filleted and made free from skin and bone. Boiling, and especially steaming, are two of the best ways of cooking it, and then comes broiling or grilling. Fried fish is less suitable, and when given must be dry and crisp and not saturated with fat. A cream, souffle, or quenelles, are other very light forms of serving fish. When the digestion is very weak a thickened sauce should not be given, although a little cold butter may be allowed. 'When serving plainly cooked fish, garnish with a small sprig of parsley and one or two thin slices of lemon, and this will add very much to the appearance of the dish. 2519. Baked Fish 1 filleted fish. I Lemon juice. Seasoning. | A little butter. Wipe the fillets with a damp cloth, and either cut them in small pieces or double them lengthways, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Lay the pieces on a small greased tin or plate, cover them with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish is quite cooked. Serve neatly with little pats of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top, or garnish with cut lemon, and serve thin bread and butter separately. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. 2520. Steamed Fish 1 filleted fish—sole, whiting, or haddock. A little butter. Seasoning—pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Wipe the fillets lightly with a damp cloth, and season them carefully. Then either roll up the