384 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD cayenne and the bay-leaf. Cover the jar closely, place it in a saucepan with water to reach half-way up th# sides, and allow the contents to steam until the beef is quite tender. Then turn the beef and butter into a mortar, remove the bay-leaf, add the anchovies, and pound well until reduced to a paste. Season to taste with the mustard, a little spice, and more pepper and salt if necessary. When smooth, rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve and then pack in little pots. Melt the remainder of the butter and run it over the top to keep out the air. This will keep for several days in cold weather. It makes a very good breakfast dish, or can be used for sandwiches. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6cl. 1658. Potted Beef (Scotch) 3 lbs. hough or shin of beef. 1 cow heel. A bunch of herbs. 20 black peppercorns. A blade of mace. 4 cloves. 4 allspice. Salt. 4 or 5 qts. cold water. Choose an upper and fleshy piece of shin of beef. Wipe it well with a damp cloth and cut it in small pieces. Saw or break up the bones. Cut the cow heel in four or five pieces, and wash and scrape it well. Put all this meat and bones into a large saucepan with 4 or 5 qts. of cold water, or enough to well cover them. Add about a table-spoonful of salt, allow the contents to soak off the fire for one hour, and then bring slowly to the boil. Add the bunch of herbs and the spices tied in muslin, and continue to simmer slowly until the meat is reduced almost to rags, and the fleshy part slips away quite easily from the bones of the cow heel. Then strain through a sieve into a large basin and stand overnight. Next day, remove all skin and gristle from the beef, and chop it and the meat from the cow heel finely, or put them through a mincing machine. Remove all fat from the top of the stock (see p. 40). Underneath, the stock should be a good jelly. If too stiff, add more water, but if, on the contrary, it is rather liquid, turn it into a saucepan and allow it to reduce. Add the minced meat to the stock, heat them over the fire, and then simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Add more pepper and salt, if necessary, and pour into moulds that have been rinsed out with cold water and left wet. Stand till cold, and turn out when wanted. Serve garnished with parsley. This potted meat makes an excellent breakfast, luncheon, or supper dish, and in cold weather it will keep for several days. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 3s. 1659. Bloaters, To Cook Take off the heads and trim the fish neatly with a pair of scissors. Then split them open and re- move the roe and back bone with the fingers. Wipe the fish on both sides. Place them with the open side down on a hot and greased gridiron, and broil on both sides (see Broiling, p. 208). They will take from 5 to 7 minutes to cook. Serve on a hot dish with the skin side downwards and place a little plain or maitre d’hotel butter on the top. If preferred, the bloaters may be cooked in pairs with the two open sides together ; or scored across on both sides and cooked without boning. They may also be baked with a little butter in the oven, or fried with a small quantity of fat in a frying pan instead of grilling. Any roes should be cooked separately and used as a garnish. 1660. Potted Bloater Cooked bloater. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper. Butter. A pinch of mace. Carefully remove all the skin and bone from some cooked bloater, and pound it until smooth, adding, by degrees, enough melted butter to make a soft paste. Season with pepper, salt (if neces- sary), and a small pinch of nutmeg and mace. If wished very smooth, rub the mixture through a fine sieve. Pack the paste into a pot or jar, and if it has to be kept for any length of time, run some melted butter over the top. This is very good spread on hot buttered toast for breakfast, and is also useful for making savouries and small sand- wiches. Note.—Other kinds of fish may be potted in the same way, regulating the seasoning and the amount of butter according to the kind of fish used. 1661. Brains on Toast 2 tab.-sps. cooked brains 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. tomato ket- chup. Salt. Pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice 1 table-sp. butter. Hot buttered toast. Break up the brains with a fork, then beat the eggs and mix both lightly together. Season with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice and the tomato ketchup. Heat the butter in a small frying pan, pom’ in the brain and egg mixture, and cook it for a minute or two, stirring all the time. Then dish it neatly on small fingers or rounds of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with chopped parsley or coralline pepper, reheat in the oven for a minute or two, and serve as hot as possible. 1662. Breakfast Pat6 1 lb. fat bacon. | lb. calf’s liver. 1 tea-sp. minced parsley. 1 tea-sp. minced shallot. A little butter. Pepper. Salt. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. Some joints of rabbit, game, or fowl. Soak the calf’s liver in cold water for half an hour to draw the blood from it. Then dry it well. Cut the liver and bacon in dice, and fry these until cooked, adding a little butter if necessary. Sprinkle with the seasonings, and cook slowly, stirring very frequently. Then drain off the fat, and pound the rest in a mortar to a smooth paste. Have ready any small joints of rabbit, game, or fowl, and fry them for a few minutes in the fat which was drained from the liver, &c., adding more butter if necessary. Then spread some of the farce at the foot of a greased pie dish or fireproof dish; on this put a layer of the joints, sprinkling them with a little salt and pepper; then more farce, and repeat this until all is used up. The last layer should be one of farce. Smooth over the surface with a spoon dipped in boiling water, cover with greased paper, stand the dish in a tin with boiling water to come half-way up the sides, and cook in the oven for one and a half hours. When ready, run a little liquid butter or lard over the top, and serve cold.