POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 303 be served separately, and an orange salad is a good accompaniment. Time to roast, 20 to 30 minutes. on the pan, and cook in the oven or by the side of the stove until the game is tender. To Serve.—Cut the birds in halves and serve them on the top of the rice. Time to cook, 1 to 1£ hours. 1243. Ptarmigan, To Cook The ptarmigan is the smallest of the grouse tribe; its plumage is speckled grey or brown in summer, but turns almost white in winter, hence it is also called the white grouse. It inhabits high mountainous regions, and large numbers are im- ported from Norway and Russia. When young the flesh of the ptarmigan is quite delicate in flavour, but in the older birds it has acquired a bitter flavour, which is disliked by many people. They should be well hung, and can then be cooked in the same way as grouse. They will require from 30 to 35 minutes to roast. A little acid jelly, such as cranberry or guava, is a good accompaniment. 1241. Roast Plovers (Pluviers Rotis) Prepare and cook in the same way as Grouse (see Recipe 1228). Sometimes these birds are left undrawn, in any case the liver should be left inside. They will require about 20 minutes to roast and, like all game, must be well basted. Serve them on croutons of bread fried in the basting butter, and garnish with watercress and thinly sliced lemon. A little Burgundy or port should be added to the gravy. Time to roast, 15 to 20 minutes. 1242. Plovers with Rice (Pluviers en Pilaff) 3 plovers. 3 oz. rice. 2 oz. butter. A little saffron. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. U gills light stock. 2 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. Prepare and truss the birds as for roasting. Heat the butter in a stewpan, put in the plovers, and brown them slowly on all sides. Then lift them out, put in the chopped onion, and allow it to take a light brown colour. Add the rice, washed and blanched, the tomato puree, stock, and season- ings. Bring to the boil, cook a few minutes, and then return the plovers. Put a tight-fitting lid 1244. Roast Quails (Cailles R6ties) Pluck the birds and remove the head and neck. Draw them from the neck end, leaving the trail or not as preferred. Truss them with a needle and fine string in the same way as a pigeon, and tie a piece of fat bacon and a vine-leaf over the breast of each. Then roast in front of the fire if possible, basting almost constantly with butter. They will require from 12 to 15 minutes. The Quail and Snipe livers may be cut in small pieces, cooked in a little butter, then pounded with pepper and salt and a little good gravy and spread on croutons of bread or small neat pieces of toast. Make these quite hot and serve the birds on the top. The trussing thread must be removed, but not the bacon and vine-leaf. Garnish with a small quantity of water- cress and serve with fried bread-crumbs and a simple gravy separately. Time to roast, 12 to 15 minutes. 1245. Broiled Quails (Cailles Grilled) Pluck, singe, and draw the birds. Split them through the back bone and lay them flat without separating the halves. Wipe them carefully and season with salt and pepper. Wrap them in thickly buttered white paper and broil about 5 minutes on each side. Prepare a crouton of fried bread for each bird and as described for Roast Quails, and when the quails are ready place them on the top, removing the paper. Garnish with small sprigs of watercress, and serve bread sauce separately. Time to broil, 10 to 12 minutes.