COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 300 the birds are inferior in quality or very plentiful that other methods of cooking are resorted to. A fine trussing needle and fine string should be used for trussing purposes instead of skewers, which are apt to make holes and cause the juice to escape. As the flesh of most kinds of game is inclined to be dry, the breast of the bird should either be larded or have slices of fat bacon tied over it before roasting. This bacon should be slit in several places to prevent it curling up in the cooking (see Barding, p. 206). Then, a short time before taking the bird from the oven, remove the bacon, dredge the breast with flour, baste it, and let it take a nice brown colour. The basting must be very carefully attended to, butter or bacon fat being used. The Gravy should be made in the same way as for an ordinary roast (see p. 207), good game stock being used. This may be made from the giblets of the birds. The gravy must always be served separately and not round the dish. Garnish and Accompaniments.—Nicely seasoned watercress is a favourite garnish, or well made potato chips or straws, or grilled mushrooms. Fried bread-crumbs should always be served separately as well as the gravy. Bread sauce is also liked by some, but is not an absolute necessity. Some birds have a special sauce suitable to them- selves. A green salad is also a very favourite accompani- ment. 1225. Fried Bread-crumbs for Game Take some stale white bread and rub it through a sieve in order to make fine bread-crumbs. About a cupful will generally be sufficient. Melt a small quantity of clarified or fresh butter (about 1 oz.) in a frying pan, put in the crumbs and stir them gently over the fire until lightly browned, dry and crisp. They should absorb all the fat. Drain on paper, and serve on a small dish with a lace- edged paper under them. Note.—The crumbs may be baked on a tin in the oven with the butter, instead of being browned in a frying pan over the fire. 1226. Roast Blackcock (Coq de Bruyere Roti) Follow directions given for Roast Grouse (Recipe 1228). They will require from f to 1 hour to cook. Unless the blackcock are very young they are better stewed, braised, or made into a salmi, as they are inclined to be very dry. Time to roast, § to 1 hour. 1227. Capercailzie, To Cook (Capercalzie) This bird is usually imported during the winter months. It is moderate in price as a rule, but has rather a strong flavour, which is not liked by everyone. A young bird should always be chosen. They may be roasted and served in the same way as grouse, when basting with milk will help to mellow the flavour. Celery or chestnut sauce is a good accompaniment. Capercailzie are also good boiled or stewed (see Recipes for Boiled or Stewed Fowl). Time to roast, about 1 hour. 1228. Roast Grouse (Grouse R6tl) Pluck the bird very carefully, draw it, and wipe it both inside and out with a damp cloth, but do not wash it. Then take a piece of butter the size of a nutmeg, work it up with a little pepper and salt and a squeeze of lemon juice, and put this inside the body along with the liver. Now truss in the same way as a roast fowl (p. 276), using a fine trussing needle and string, as large holes would allow the juice to escape. Tie a slice of fat baconover the breast,and roast in front of a clear fire or in a good oven. Baste frequently with butter or bacon fat, as the flesh of the grouse is inclined to be dry. Remove the slice of bacon fat a few minutes before serving, dredge the breast with flour and roast again until nicely browned. The time required for roasting will depend very much I Grouse I on the age and size of the bird, a young and tender bird will be sufficiently cooked in 25 to 30 minutes, while an older one will require f hour. When ready, remove the grouse on to a hot dish and remove the trussing thread or string. Serve separately a good brown gravy made in the roast- ing tin (see p. 207), and fried bread-crumbs (see above). The method of garnishing and choice of accompaniments is very much a matter of taste and of fashion. Formerly it was the custom to serve the bird on a slice of toast, but now this is usually dispensed with. A garnish of watercress is in favour at present, and grilled mushrooms are always suitable. Bread sauce is liked by some, but is not absolutely necessary, while a well-made nut sauce, or a fruit sauce, has been fashionable of late. Time to roast, £ to § hour. 1229. Broiled or Spatchcock Grouse Only very young and tender birds can be prepared in this way. Split them through the back without separating the halves, wipe the pieces carefully with a damp cloth and skewer them open. Season with pepper and salt and, if liked, a little finely-chopped parsley and shallot. Brush over on both sides with salad oil or melted butter and let them lie a short time, if possible, to let the fat soak in. Grease a gridiron and make it very hot. Place the birds on it, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them occasionally and brushing them over with more oil or butter. The time will depend very much on the size and thickness of the grouse. When ready, serve the birds on a very hot dish with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter on the top of each. Garnish with chip potatoes or grilled mushrooms.