COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 459 added. Arrange this in a bed on a glass or silver dish, placing the pears on the top. Add the re- mainder of the apricot puree to the syrup in which the pears were cooked, reduce it to nice consistency, colour with a little carmine, and strain. When cool, pour over the pears and serve cold. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, la. 4d. to la. 6d. 2072. Pears & la St. Honor6 (Poires a la St. Honor6) Custard. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. castor sugar. Vanilla. 2 eggs. Caramel. 2 or 3 oz. castor sugar. Compote. 5 or 6 pears. I lb. loaf sugar. J pt. water. Lemon juice. 1 or 2 table-sps. apricot puree. A little liqueur. Skin the pistachio nuts, chop them, pound them in a mortar, and then tud them through a ware sieve. Whip the cream, and add to it the sugar, orange-flower water, brandy, and most of the pistachio nuts. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and, when slightly cool, strain it into the cream, &c., and, lastly, stir in the whites of the eggs beaten stiffly. Fill up the souffle cases with this mixture, and set them in a cool place or on ice to stiffen. Colour a little clear liquid jelly green, add to it the remaining pistachio nuts, and, when almost setting, run it over the top of the souffles and set again. When required, remove the bands of paper, and serve the souffles on a crystal or silver dish. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Probable cost, 3s. 2074. Pommes de Terre Nouvelles Decoration—Whipped cream. First prepare a caramel custard, and steam it in a border mould. Heat the milk in a saucepan and flavour it with vanilla. Beat the eggs and sugar together in a basin, and pour the hot milk gradu- ally on to them, stirring all the time. Then make the caramel by melting the castor sugar in a saucepan without any water, and allowing it to boil until it becomes a golden brown. Take a plain border mould, large enough to hold rather more than J pint, heat it first, pour in the caramel, and run it round the sides and over the bottom. Grease carefully the inner sides, which have not been coated by the caramel, and strain in the custard. Place the custard in a deep tin with cold water round it, heat this over the fire without letting it boil, and then place all in a moderate oven. Cook slowly until the custard feels firm to the touch (20 to 30 minutes), lift it out, and allow it to cool. Meanwhile make a compote with the pears. Choose pears of a medium size, peel them, cut them in quarters or in sixths, and remove the cores. Make a syrup with the sugar, water, and a little lemon juice, and cook the pieces of pear in it until they are tender but not broken. Strain off most of the syrup, add to the pears the apricot puree and a little kirsch or other liqueur, and allow the compote to cool. The compote must not be liquid, as the custard is already soft. To Serve.—Turn out the custard, place some of the pieces of pear in the centre, and the rest round the dish. Garnish the top with a little whipped and sweetened cream put through a forcing bag. Note.—Other fruits may be used in place of the pears. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2073. Pistachio Nut Souffles, Cold (Souffles froids aux Pistaches) J pt. double cream. 3 whites of eggs. 1 lb. pistachio nuts. 2 oz. sugar. | oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. brandy. 2 tea-sps. orange-flower water. I gill water. A little clear jelly. Green colouring. Prepare eight or nine small souffle cases with a band of paper pinned round the outside (see p. 486). Pastry. I- lb. sugar. 3} oz. flour. 4 eggs. | lb. almond paste. 1 gill double cream, sugar, and flavouring, or I gill thick custard, II oz. grated chocolate, l| oz. fine sugar. To Make the Pastry.—Put the yolks, of eggs into a basin and add the sugar finely sieved. Beat these two together with a whisk or wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and sieve and dry the flour. Add the flour and beaten whites alter- nately to the yolks and sugar, and mix all very lightly. Spread out on a greased and papered tin, and bake in a good oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Turn the pastry out on to sugared paper and allow it to cool. To Make the Potatoes.—Stamp out this pastry into small oval-shaped pieces, and hollow the centre of each with a tea-spoon. Fill up with thick whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured, or with thick custard, and put another piece on the top. Roll out the almond paste (see Recipe 2852) very thinly, and cut it in square pieces. Coat each piece of pastry with this, and roll in the hands until smooth. Then roll in chocolate and sugar mixed, and make small indentations to represent the eyes of the potato. Do not make the potatoes too regular in form. Serve them on a lace-edged paper. 2075. Another Method 6 oz. chocolate cake- crumbs. 1 table-sp. sieved apri- cot jam. 2 oz. sugar. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. any liqueur. k lb. almond paste. 1£ oz. grated choco- late. H oz. castor sugar. Glace cherries. Put the cake-crumbs into a basin, and add the sugar, lemon juice, and jam. Flavour with some liqueur, and mix into a paste. Divide this into small portions, and put a glac6 cherry into the centre of each. Then coat with almond paste, forming them into potato-shaped pieces, and finish as in last recipe.