327 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS slightly hollowed-out croutes of fried bread. Poached, fried, or hard-boiled eggs may be devilled in the same way. Probable cost. Is. 1406. Surprise Eggs (CEufs en Surprise) 4 or 5 eggs. PuS pastry. Egg and bread-crumbs. Soft-boil the eggs and lay them in cold water. Then remove the shells very carefully, and sprinkle the eggs with pepper and salt. Roll out some scraps of puff pastry very thinly, and cut out as many oblong-shaped pieces as there are eggs. Wrap up each egg in a piece of pastry, sealing the joins with a little beaten egg. Cut off any super- fluous pastry with a pair of scissors, and do not make it too thick in any one part, or it will not cook sufficiently. Now brush the eggs over with beaten egg, and toss them in fine bread-crumbs or finely-crushed vermicelli. Fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain well, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—The round of pastry may be lightly coated with some savoury paste, such as shrimp or sardine, before wrapping up the egg in it. Probable cost, lOd. 1409. Plovers’ Eggs, to Cook and Serve These are looked upon as a great delicacy, and as a ride fetch a high price. They are very rich in flavour, and the white ha3 a decided bluish tinge, which gives the egg a very dainty and pretty appearance. Plovers’ eggs are usually hard-boiled and served either hot or cold, the latter from preference. They will require about 10 minutes to cook, and should then be placed in cold water until required. There are different ways of serving these eggs, but the simplest methods are the best. Cold they are often served in their shells in a little moss-lined basket, or shelled and used as a garnish for a simple green salad. Or another simple mode is to place each egg on a small oval-shaped piece of brown or white bread and butter and to garnish it round with a little savoury butter, such as maitre d’hotel, shrimp, ham butter, &c. (see p. 193), forcing this out through a small paper cornet, and then to serve them garnished very lightly with mustard and cress or watercress. It is not so usual to serve plovers’ eggs hot, but they may be, if preferred, by reheating them in any good sauce and serving them with the sauce poured over them or en casserole. 1407. Eggs in Tomatoes, 1 ((Eufs & la Mazarine) 6 tomatoes. 6 eggs. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. A few bread-crumbs. Choose firm round tomatoes of a medium size. Wipe them, cut a slice off the stalk end of each, and scoop out the soft inside. Mix the parsley and onion together with a little pepper and salt, and sprinkle a little of the mixture inside each tomato. Then break a small fresh egg into the centre of each. (If the eggs are large, a little of the white should be kept back.) Cover the surface of the eggs with bread-crumbs, sprinkle with melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven 10 to 15 minutes, basting once or twice with the butter. Serve the tomatoes on the dish in which they were cooked. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1408. Eggs in Tomatoes, 2 (CEufs a la Mazarine) 5 eggs. 6 tomatoes. 5 croutons of fried bread. Boil the eggs soft and remove the shells (see Recipe 1403). Reheat them in hot water slightly salted. Cut five croutons of bread, a suitable size on which to stand the tomatoes, and fry them in butter to a nice brown colour. Choose the tomatoes firm and ripe and of a medium size. Cut a small piece out of the stalk end of each, and remove the seeds and watery centre with a small tea-spoon. Then place them on a greased tin, season them well with pepper and salt, and cook them in a good oven for 10 minutes. (Unless the oven is hot, the tomatoes will soften and fall into a puree.) When ready, place each one on a crouton, arrange them on a hot dish, and stand the eggs inside. Probable cost. Is. 1410. Plovers’ Eggs in Aspic (CEufs de Pluviers en Aspic) Plovers’eggs. Aspic jelly. Decoration. Salad. Boil the eggs hard as directed above, and lay them in cold water until required. Then take as many dariole moulds as there are eggs, and of an appropriate size to hold one egg. Rinse them out with cold water, and pour a little aspic jelly into each, just sufficient to cover the bottom. Allow this to set, and then place in some decora- tion, such as a fancy-shaped piece of truffle, tongue, or beetroot, tiny rounds of red radish, or a sprig of chervil, something that will make a pretty contrast to the bluish white colour of the egg. Set this decoration with a little more jelly, then place a whole plover’s egg in the centre of each dariole, and fill up with more liquid aspic. Place the moulds in a cool place or on ice until set, then turn them out on a silver dish, and serve garnished with some pretty green salad. Notes.—Tomato jelly (Recipe 1310) may be used instead of aspic, or half the moulds may be made in one colour and half in the other, thus giving a pretty variety. The eggs may be set in a border mould if preferred, and clear chicken or other meat jelly may be used if aspic jelly is objected to. PART II OMELETS GENERAL REMARKS Although an omelet is considered by many to be one of the most difficult of egg dishes to make properly, and successful ones are more frequently met with on the Continent than in this country.