257 COLD MEAT REDRESSED about 1 gill of hot milk. When quite soft, beat it up with a fork until free from lumps. Mix in the curry powder, and then the meat, the almonds chopped or shred, and the egg well beaten. Season with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if liked, a tea-spoonful of sugar. Stir all together for a few minutes and then pour into a greased fireproof dish. Sprinkle the top with bread- crumbs, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. 1048. Bubble and Squeak A little butter or drip- ping. A few drops of vinegar. Cooked beef. Cooked cabbage or greens. Seasoning. Remains of either roast or boiled beef may be used for this dish, and it may be either fresh or salted. If fresh it is better rather underdone. Cut the beef into thin neat slices, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Then take some cooked cabbage, Brussels sprouts, or other cooked greens, chop them on a board, removing any hard pieces of stalk, and season well with pepper, salt, and a good pinch of nutmeg. When both these are ready, melt a little dripping in a frying-pan and fry the slices of meat lightly on both sides. Be careful not to make them too dry, and keep turning them constantly. Then keep them warm and fry the greens in the same fat. Make them thoroughly hot, and sprinkle them with a few drops of vinegar, unless this is objected to. To serve, arrange the greens neatly on a hot dish and place the slices of meat round, or on the top. Note.—A few cooked and chopped potatoes may be mixed with the greens if liked. 1049. Salt Beef Pudding 6 oz. cooked salt beef. 2 oz. macaroni. 2 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Browned bread-crumbs. Trim and mince the beef finely, then weigh it. Cook and drain the macaroni, cut it in small pieces, and mix it with the meat. Add the butter, melted, the grated cheese (Parmesan is best), and yolks of eggs, mix well, and season to taste with pepper, a little made mustard, and salt if necessary. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a plain mould that has been well greased and coated with browned bread-crumbs. Cover with greased paper and steam until firm to the touch. Then turn out carefully on to a hot dish and serve with mush- room, or any other suitable sauce, poured round. Note.—Tongue or ham may be used instead of the salt beef. Time to steam, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1050. Fricassee of Calf’s Feet (Pieds de Veau en Fricassee) 1 set of cooked calf’s parsley. feet. 3 gills white sauce. 1 dessert - sp. chopped 2 or 3 oz. ham or tongue. Seasoning. Croutons of fried bread. Take the cooked feet after they have been used for making jelly or white stock and remove all the gelatinous flesh from the bones. Cut this in small neat pieces, and cut up also 2 or 3 oz. of cooked ham or tongue. Then prepare some good white sauce made with seasoned milk (see p. 183) or with white stock and milk. Put the meat into it and let it warm through slowly by the side of the fire. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and add the parsley very finely chopped. A few chopped capers or a little green pickle may also be added, if liked. When ready, serve the fricassee neatly on a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—This may be cooked and served in a fire- proof casserole. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1051. Cassolettes of Chicken (Cassolettes de Volaille) Same mixture as for I patties. chicken and ham | Butter cases. Prepare seven or eight butter cases as directed on p. 493, and also some nicely-seasoned chicken patty mixture (Recipe 1507). Fill the cases with the mixture, put on the little lids, and garnish with sprigs of parsley or chervil. Serve them in a hot entree dish with a dish-paper under them. 1052. Chicken and Ham Croquettes (Croquettes de Volaille) 3 oz. cooked chicken. 1 oz. cooked ham. 1 or 2 table-sps. white sauce. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. Pepper. Salt. Scraps of pastry. 1 egg. Bread - crumbs or crushed vermicelli. To Prepare the Mixture.—Remove all skin and gristle from the chicken, then weigh it and chop it finely with the ham. Add to the minced meat 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of good white sauce, enough to bind the mixture together without making it too moist. Season nicely with white pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and the chopped parsley. A few button mushrooms finely chopped and a little chopped truffle may also be added if desired, some grated cheese or any flavouring that will make a nice tasty mixture. Mix all thoroughly. To Finish the Croquettes.—Proceed as for cold meat croquettes (Recipe 1018). Note.—Cooked game, rabbit, or sweetbread may all be used in the same way. Sufficient for 8 to 10 croquettes. 1053. Chicken and Ham Cutlets 6 oz. cooked chicken. 1 gill light stock. 2 oz. cooked ham or 2 yolks of eggs. tongue. Grated lemon rind. 1 table - sp. chopped A squeeze of lemon mushrooms. juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped A pinch of mace. parsley. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. A little flour. 1 oz. flour. Egg and bread-crumbs To Make the Mixture.—Chop the chicken and ham finely, removing all skin and pieces of sinew. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour in the stock, and stir constantly until the R