HORS-D»CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 50? the l shallot finely chopped and the red-currant jelly, and then season to taste with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread this mixture rather thickly on small fingers of hot buttered toast, sprinkle them with grated Parmesan, and place them in the oven to brown and heat through. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 2349. Smoked Cod Roe Soak the roe for a short time to soften it, then dry it, and cut it in small thin slices. Melt a small quantity of butter in a frying or saute pan, and fry the roe lightly on both sides. Then arrange the pieces neatly on croutons of fried or toasted bread, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 2350. Cod Roe a la Victoria Smoked cod’s roe. Hot buttered toast. Butter. Sieved yolk of egg. Seasoning. Olives. Prepare and cook some smoked cod’s roe as above, and, after frying, pound it in a mortar with a small quantity of butter. Season it with cayenne and a few drops of lemon juice. Spread this mix- ture rather thickly on finger-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, and decorate with sieved yolk of egg and turned olives. Make thoroughly hot iu the oven before serving. 2351. Crab Balls (Boulettes de Crabe) 1 boiled crab. I Melted butter. Bread-crumbs. | Seasoning. 1 egg. Remove all the meat from a crab, and pound it in a mortar until reduced to a smooth paste. Then add about half as much fine bread-crumbs as there is crab, and enough melted butter to bind all together. Season with cayenne, salt, a pinch of mace, and a little lemon juice or tarragon vinegar. Form into small balls about the size of a marble, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Serve piled up on a dish and garnished with parsley. 2352. Devilled Crab (Crabe a la Diable) 3 table-sps. crab meat. £ table-sp. butter. I tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers. Salt. Pepper. Heart-shaped croutons. Coralline pepper. Chop the meat from a cooked crab and put it into a saucepan with the above seasonings. Make all thoroughly hot, pile up on small heart-shaped croutons of fried bread, and sprinkle lightly with coralline pepper. Re-heat in the oven and then serve very hot. 2353. Crab Toast, 1 (Crabe sur Croutes) 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped celery. 1 table-sp. bread or biscuit crumbs. 1 table-sp. sherry. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the crumbs, celery, and crab meat chopped rather finely. Mix well, and pour in the milk or cream. \ gill milk or cream. J lb. crab meat. Seasoning. Plain biscuits or thin toast. Stir for a few minutes over the fire, and then add the sherry and seasoning. Spread on hot toasted biscuits, or on thin shoes of toast. Serve very hot. 2354. Crab Toast, 2 (Crabe sur Croutes) Take the meat from a cooked crab and chop it finely. Re-heat it in some good white sauce. Crab Toast seasoning it rather highly. Pile this on round or heart-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, and decorate with small pieces of green and red pickle. Re-heat in the oven for a minute or two. 2355. Devils on Horseback, 1 (Diables a Cheval) Sardines. I Devil butter. Seasoning. | Bacon. Toast. Prepare and fillet some sardines as directed in Recipe 2257, and cut some very thin slices of fat bacon. Season the fillets with pepper and lemon juice, and wrap each one in a strip of bacon, enclos- ing with it a small piece of devil butter (Recipe 762) . Fix the rolls with a tiny wooden skewer or piece of match, place them on oval-shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, which have been sprinkled with pepper and salt, and place in a good oven until the bacon is thoroughly toasted. Serve very hot. Note.—Fillets of anchovy may be used instead of the sardines, or small pieces of cooked chicken or game fiver are also very tasty done in this way. 2356. Devils on Horseback, 2 (Diables a Cheval) Make in the same way as above, rolling a stewed and stoned prune inside the bacon instead of the sardine. The prunes must he tender without being too soft, and they must be well drained from their liquid. The prune itself may be stuffed with a devilled almond or with a little devil paste (Recipe 763) . The seasoning is very much a matter of taste. 2357. Pomponettes de Foie Gras A little pastry. Foie gras. Small nuts. Take some scraps of pastry, not too rich, roll them out thinly and cut out rounds from 3 to 4 inches in diameter. Any remains of foie gras will do, but if not already in puree, they should be rubbed through a sieve. Shell and roast a few small nuts, and then rub off the brown skins. Put a tea- spoonful of foie-gras puree in the centre of each piece of paste, with a nut in the centre, and wet round the edges. Gather up the edges of the pastry, and pinch them together in the form of a little sack. Then fry the pomponettes in boiling fat and serve them on a serviette or dish paper garnished with fried parsley. Note.—Other meat purees may be used instead