FORCEMEATS AND GARNISHES 313 peeled oS very thinly, and the juice strained. Whisk all together over the fire until a good froth rises and the jelly is almost boiling. Allow it to boil up as high as it will without boiling over, then draw the saucepan gently to one side of the fire, where the jelly will keep warm without simmering, and cover it with a lid or plate. Allow it to stand for 10 minutes, and then strain, according to directions given in Recipe 1928. Note.—Aspic jelly is very much used in the decorating of cold dishes, and for the making of cold entrees. 1308. To Chop Aspic The aspic used for chopping should be rather stiff and very clear. Put the quantity required on to a sheet of white paper that has been sprinkled with cold water, and with a long knife, that has been dipped in cold water, chop it until it is the size required. This should be done in a cool place. Chopped aspic is used to decorate various cold dishes; it may either be placed in small quantities on the top of the meat, or placed in a circle round the dish. Small entrees too, are sometimes de- corated with chopped aspic squeezed through a forcing bag. 1309. Aspic Croutons Pour some stiffish aspic into a wetted shallow tin or dish, not more than 1 inch in depth, and set it aside to cool. When firm, turn out on a sheet of paper that has been sprinkled with water, and cut out into crescents, circles, triangles, lozenge shapes, &c., with a knife or cutters that have been dipped in water. These form a very useful garnish for various cold dishes. 1310. Tomato Jelly 1 lb. ripe tomatoes. 1 pt. hot water. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 glass sherry. 12 peppercorns. A small bunch of herbs. 1 cupful mixed vege- tables. 1 lemon. 1 tea-sp. salt. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 1 white and shell of egg. Put the water and gelatine into a jelly pan, and allow them to soak whilst preparing the other ingredients. Wipe the tomatoes and cut them in rough pieces, prepare a few small pieces of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, and add all these to the gelatine and water. Add also the thinly peeled rind and strained juice of the lemon, the wine and other ingredients. Finish and clear in the same way as aspic jelly (see above). Rings of cucumber are also pretty as a garnish. Cut some cucumber in slices about | inch in thick- ness. With a round cutter cut off the outer green skin, and then with a much smaller cutter stamp out the seedy part from the centre. Cook these rings in boiling salted water until they are tender without being broken, then drain and use as a garnish either for hot or cold dishes. The centres of the rings may be filled with a tiny piece of tomato, radish or truffle. 1312. Egg Garnish Separate the yolk from the white. Rub the yolk through a wire sieve, lift it as lightly as possible and use it for sprinkling over fish, boiled fowl, and various savoury dishes. The hard-boiled white may be either chopped or cut in fancy- shaped pieces. If a large number of the latter are required, it is better to steam 2 or 3 whites of eggs separately in a small cup or mould, then to turn them out, and cut in slices and fancy shapes as desired. 1313. Grated Horse-radish Wash and scrape a root of horse-radish until all the brown outside part is removed, and if possible let it lie in cold water for an hour. Then with a very sharp knife scrape it down in very fine shreds, from the root end downwards. This is used for decorating both meat and fish, and especially roast meat. It should be laid on very lightly in little bunches. 1314. Cheap Glaze for Meat | pt. stock or water. | oz. French sheet gelatine. 1 tea-sp. meat extract. Dissolve the gelatine in the stock or water, then add the meat extract, and boil until reduced to about half the quantity, stirring frequently. Season if necessary, strain, and allow it to be- come almost cold before using. 1311. Cucumber Garnish Choose a firm, straight cucumber, cut a block from 2 to 2£ inches in length, and with a sharp knife score the skin down in narrow strips, but not too deeply. Then remove every alternate strip of peel, giving the piece of cucumber a dark and fight green striped appearance. Now cut it in half lengthwise and slice each piece as thinly as possible. Arrange these pieces in scallop form round a dish by pinching them slightly together. This is one of the prettiest forms of decoration for a cold dish, and especially so when the scallops of cucumber are stuck into a border of aspic. 1315. Lobster Coral Remove the coral from a lobster and wash it carefully. Place it on a piece of paper, and dry in a slow oven without allowing it to lose its colour. Then rub it through a hair sieve, and use this pretty red powder for decorating fish and little savoury dishes. 1316. Macedoine of Vegetables for Garnish Cut a carrot and turnip into J inch dice, or with small vegetable cutters cut them into fancy shapes or balls. The red part only of the carrot should be used.