STOCKS AND SOUPS 71 if not procurable. A few leaves of sorrel are often added. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 151. Brussels Sprout Soup (Creme de Choux de Bruxelles) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. 1 qt. white stock. 1 gill cream. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. rice flour. Seasoning. Trim the sprouts, cutting away any decayed or discoloured leaves. Wash well, and let them steep in a basin of cold water with a few drops of vinegar for half an hour. Then drainand throw them into a saucepan of fast boiling water (salted in the proportion of 1 dessert-spoonful to 1 quart) and boil quickly from 15 to 20 minutes, removing any scum that may rise. Do not overcook the sprouts, or their colour will be destroyed. When ready, drain and rub through a fine sieve. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, add the rice flour and mix until smooth. Then pour in 1 pint of stock, stir con- stantly until boiling and boil 3 minutes. Add the remainder of the stock along with the Brussels sprout puree and bring to the boil again. Season to taste and add the cream and the remainder of the butter just before serving. Serve with croutons of toast or fried bread. Notes.—The remains of cooked Brussels sprouts may be used for making this soup, but they ought to be a nice green colour. The soup must not be cooked long after the puree is added, or the colour will be spoiled. A little green colouring may be added if necessary. A few leaves of chervil may be added as a garnish. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost, Is. Gel. Quantity, 2 pints. 152. Cauliflower Soup (Potage Creme de Choufleur) 1 large or 2 small cauli- \ pt. milk. 1 gill cream. flowers. 2 pts. white stock. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. cornflour. 1 lump sugar. White pepper and salt. Prepare the cauliflower and break it up in little bunches. Scald these in boiling water for 10 minutes, reserve a few of the best pieces as a garnish for the soup and coo1.:: them separately in boiling water until tender. Then put the rest of the cauli- flower into a saucepan with the white stock and simmer slowly over the fire until tender. When ready, rub all through a hair sieve. Melt half the butter in a clean saucepan and mix in the cornflour until smooth, add the milk and stir until boiling. Cook well for a few minutes and add the sieved soup. Bring to the boil again, add the rest of the butter and the cream just before serving. Season to taste and put in the small pieces of cauliflower. Serve with grated Parmesan. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 153. Egg Soup To each J pint of beef broth or stock allow 1 yolk of egg. Any good fresh beef broth or stock will do for this. Free it from all grease, put it into a saucepan and heat over the fire. Beat up the yolks of eggs with a little cold water or stock and strain them into the hot broth, stirring all the time. Make very hot, but do not boil. Season to taste, and serve with dry toast or unsweetened rusks. Note.—This soup is very suitable for serving at evening parties, in cup or ■petiles marmiies. 154. Calf s-tail Soup (Potage de Queue de Veau) 2 calves’ tails. 4 pts. second white stock. A bunch of herbs. A small piece of carrot and turnip. 1 onion. 3 or 4 cloves. A pinch of nutmeg. 1-| oz. butter. l| oz. flour. 1 gill of thin cream. 2 yolks of eggs. | glass of sherry. 1 oz. grated Parmesan. Wash the tails and cut them in pieces about 1J inches long. Put them into a saucepan with suffi- cient cold water to cover them, bring to the boil and pour the water away. Rinse off all the scum, put the pieces of tail back in the saucepan with the stock, bring to the boil again and skim well. Then add the vegetables and bunch of herbs, put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly from 1£ to 2 hours or until the meat will come away easily from the bones. Next strain the soup and if possible let it stand until cold, when all fat can easily be removed from the top. Then melt the butter in a saucepan and mix in the flour until smooth without allowing them to brown. Pour on the strained soup and stir over the fire until boliing. Put in the best pieces of the tail (free from all vegetables) and allow them to simmer in the soup 5 or 10 minutes. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin with the sherry, and strain these into soup, stirring all the time. Add seasoning to taste, but do not boil again. Put the cheese into the soup tureen and pour the soup on to it. Notes.—The soup may be made plainer by adding \ pint of milk instead of the yolks of eggs and cream. Ti^e cheese and sherry may be omitted if the flavour is objected to. Time to cook, about 2£ hours. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. Quantity, 2b pints. 155. Chicken Soup (Potage de Volaille or a la Reine) 1 chicken. | carrot. 2 qts. cold water. A small piece of turnip, blade of mace. 1 oz. butter. \ oz. flour. 1 stick celery. 1 onion or leek. 1 gill of thin cream, or \ pt. boiled milk. Pepper and salt. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks* 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. Clean the chicken and cut it up in small pieces, breaking the bones. If wished the breast may be kept back to serve in some other way. Put all together into a clean lined pan, with enough cold water to well cover—about two quarts ; add a little salt, and bring slowly to the boil. Then skim well and add the vegetables, cleaned and cut in small pieces, the bay-leaf, blade of mace, and parsley stalks. Simmer slowly from five to six hours until reduced about one-third, removing any scum that may rise. When cooked sufficiently, strain through a hair sieve into a basin, and let it stand till cold. Remove all fat from the top of the stock. Take some of the pieces of meat from the chicken, pound them well in a mortar, then rub through a wire