SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 187 3 minutes. Add the vinegar and salt, and serve hot. A spoonful of cream may be added. Serve with grilled fish. 698. Another Way Make in the same way as Hollandaise Sauce (Recipe 723), adding 1 tea-spoonful made mustard to 1 gill of sauce. 699. Onion Sauce 2 or 3 onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. (Sauce aux Oignons) | pt. pot liquor or milk. Pepper, salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Boil the onions until they are tender, drain them well, and chop them finely. If the sauce is to be served with boiled meat, lift out some of the water in which the meat is cooking, allow it to cool, and use this for making the sauce. Make the sauce in the same way as White Sauce (Recipe 671), using the butter, flour, and meat liquor, and cook it thoroughly. Add the onions and seasoning, simmer a few minutes, and serve. The sauce can be made better by having an extra piece of butter, or a table-spoonful of cream added at the last. See also Sauce Soubise (Recipe 742). 700. Parsley Sauce (Sauce Maitre d’Hotel) 1 oz. butter. \ oz. flour. | pt. milk or 1 gill of milk and 1 gill water or pot liquor. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Cook for a minute or two over the fire, but do not discolour, then draw the pan to one side and pour in the liquid. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Add the parsley, pepper, and salt, and boil two or three minutes longer. Squeeze in the lemon juice just before serving. Notes.—If the sauce is to be served with fish, use some of the liquid in which the fish is cooked. A better sauce can be made by using Bechamel or Veloute Sauce (Recipe 672 or 673) as a foundation. A little cream or an extra piece of butter can always be added. 702. Sauce Robert £ pt. brown sauce. 1 small onion. 1 glass white wine or 2 table-sps. vinegar. £ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. made tard. A pinch of sugar. mus- Chop the onion and saute it in the butter a few minutes, add the mustard, sugar, and wine or vinegar and boil until the liquid is reduced to half the quantity. Then add the brown sauce (Recipe 670), and simmer 10 minutes longer. Skim well and strain before using. One or two red pimento cut in pieces may be added after strain- ing. Serve with pork, goose, cutlets, or steak. 703. Roe Sauce 2 table-sps. cooked roe. Salt, pepper. I tea-sp. made mustard. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. | pt. white or brown sauce. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. Either boiled or fried roes may be used for this ; the former are better if the sauce is white, and the latter for a brown sauce. Remove all skin from the roe, season with pepper, salt, and a little mustard and vinegar. Then rub all through a wire sieve, and add the puree to £ pint of either white or brown sauce, which has been made with fish stock. Add a little anchovy or shrimp es- sence, and serve this sauce with the fish from which the roe has been taken. Note.—Either soft or hard roes may be used. 704. Shrimp Sauce (Sauce aux Crevettes) oz. butter. § oz. flour. | pt. fish stock. 1 gill picked shrimps. A squeeze of lemon juice. White pepper, salt. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, and mix in the flour smoothly with a wooden spoon. Cook for a minute or two over the fire without browning, then draw the pan to the side and pour in the stock or milk. Return to the fire, and stir constantly until boiling. Break the shrimps into small pieces with a fork, and add them with white pepper and salt to taste. Add the lemon juice just before serving. Note.—A better sauce can be made by adding a little shrimp butter (Recipe 771) and 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. A plainer sauce may be made by simply adding a little bottled shrimp essence to a white fish sauce. 701. Sauce Piquante \ pt. brown sauce. | gill vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot 1 table-sp. chopped capers. 1 table-sp. chopped gherkin. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Put the vinegar, shallot, capers, and gherkin into a saucepan, and simmer over the fire until the shallot is cooked and the vinegar is reduced to hah the quantity. Pour in the brown sauce, and bring to the boil. Add more seasoning if necessary, and the parsley just before serving. Serve with boiled mutton, veal, calf’s head, or any meat that is wanting in taste. 705. Tomato Sauce § oz. butter. | oz. rice flour. 5 or 6 tomatoes. 1 oz. lean ham. £ pt. stock. Pepper and salt. (Sauce aux Tomates) A small piece of carrot, celery, turnip, onion. A sprig of thyme, mar- joram, and parsley. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 lump of sugar. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put into it the ham and vegetables cut in small pieces, and fry them for a few minutes. Wipe the tomatoes, and cut them in slices on a plate. Add them next to the saucepan with the rice flour, and mix well. Pour in the stock, and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and simmer slowly for at least half an hour, stirring occasionally. If