COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 144 water until tender and cut them in slices. Cook also the onions until tender a nd chop them rather finely. Grease a fireproof dish, put into it first a layer of well-seasoned white sauce, then a layer of cucumber and onion sprinkled with nuts, more sauce, and so on until all is in. Cover with bread-crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in a good oven until brown. Note.—Grated cheese may be used instead of the nuts. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 480. Stuffed Cucumber, 1 (Concombre Farci) 1 cucumber. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked potato. 2 or 3 table-sps. cooked ham. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk or cream. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A little butter. 1 gill stock or white wine. Choose a thick, short cucumber and one that is very firm. Peel it and scald it in boiling salted water for 10 minutes. Then rinse it in cold water, cut it in half lengthwise and remove all the seeds. Allow the cucumber to lie between the folds of a cloth whilst preparing the stuffing. Sieve the potatoes, put them in a basin, add.the ham finely chopped, grated cheese and seasoning. Mix well, and add the yolks of eggs and enough milk or cream to form a stiffish mixture. Place the pieces of cucumber on a long greased fireproof dish, fill up the hollows with the stuffing, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Pour the stock or wine round and bake in a moderate oven until the cucumber is cooked and the top nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 481. Stuffed Cucumber, 2 (Concombre Farci) 1 cucumber. 2 or 3 oz. cooked meat. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 yolk of egg. 2 oz. cooked rice. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Lemon juice. Salt, pepper, f pt. stock. Brown or tomato sauce. Choose a straight, plump cucumber of medium size, cut it in half lengthwise and scoop out the seeds. Sprinkle the inside with salt and turn it cut side down on a plate to drain. Meanwhile prepare the stuffing: Any nicely cooked meat may be used, and if a little ham or tongue can be mixed with it, so much the better. Mince the meat finely and put it into a basin with the rice, parsley, onion, and season- ing. Mix well together and bind with the yolk of an egg. Put this stuffing into the cucumber and then place the two halves together. Bind round with tape and place the cucumber in a baking dish or tin with the stock. Cover over and bake in a moderate oven until tender, basting occasionally with the stock. When ready, lift the cucumber on to a hot dish, remove the tape and pour tomato or brown sauce over. Or, a little glaze may be added to the stock in the baking dish, and this gravy poured round the cucumber instead of the sauce. 482. Stuffed Cucumber, 3 (Concombre Farci) Stuffing. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. cooked ham or tongue. A little stock. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. 1 cucumber. 1 or 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 5 or 6 croutons of bread. A little sauce. Choose a long straight cucumber, trim off the ends and cut it in pieces about 2 inches in length. Peel off the skin in narrow strips, leaving alternate strips of the peel and giving the pieces of cucumber a striped appearance. Then scald the pieces in boiling salted water for 5 minutes, rinse in cold water and drain. Scoop out the seeds from the centre without destroying the shape of the cucumber and stand the pieces on a greased baking tin. Then prepare the stuffing. Put the bread-crumbs, ham, parsley, and a little grated lemon rind into a basin, add sufficient stock to moisten and bind them together and season with ' pepper and salt. Fill up the pieces of cucumber with this stuffing, piling it rather high in the centre. Stuffed Cucumber A forcing bag and pipe may be taken for this if found easier, and any nice forcemeat be used in- stead of the above. Place a piece of greased paper over the prepared cucumber and bake in a moderate oven until tender. A few minutes before the pieces are ready, remove the paper, sprinkle the tops with bread-crumbs, baste them with a little butter and allow them to brown. To Serve.—Stand each piece of stuffed cucumber on a round crouton of fried bread and pour round a little thin brown or tomato sauce. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 483. Cassolettes of Cucumber and Green Peas (Cassolettes de Concombre aux Petits Pois) 1 large cucumber. Green pea puree. A little flour. Tomato sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Choose a large straight cucumber. Peel it and trim off the ends. Cut it into slices about If inch thick and stamp out the seedy centres with a small round cutter, being careful not to break the cucum- ber. Put these rings of cucumber into a saucepan, cover them with boiling water, add a little salt and a few drops of vinegar, and boil them gently for 10 minutes. Then drain, rinse in cold water and let them lie in the folds of a towel a short time to absorb the moisture. Now coat the pieces very lightly with seasoned flour, and egg and bread-crumb them, without filling up the hole in the centre. Fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour and drain on kitchen paper. Makesome green pea pur6e according to directions given in Recipe 499 and put it into a forcing bag with