415 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS pie dish. Pour over them the wine or fruit syrup and let them soak. Meanwhile cream the butter and sugar in a basin, add the yolks of eggs one at a time, then the flavouring, and lastly the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour this mixture over the sponge cakes and bake in a moderate oven until set and lightly browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Note.—If liked, the pie dish may be lined with pastry. Time to bake, about f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1841. Marmalade Pudding (Baked) £ lb. flour. | lb. rice flour. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder 2 table-sps. marmalade. A little milk. 1 egg. A pinch of salt. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten, the marmalade and enough milk to make a softish paste. Pour the mixture into greased dariole moulds, not filling them more than three-quarters full, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out, and serve with lemon, marmalade, or custard sauce (see Sauces). Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1842. Marrow Pudding 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 pt. milk. 4 oz. beef marrow. 2 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of cinnamon. 1 oz. currants. 1 oz. stoned raisins. A little pastry. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, boil the milk and pour it over them. Cover the basin with a plate, and allow this to stand for half an hour. Meanwhile edge a pie dish with pastry according to directions given on p. 409, and decorate it neatly. When the bread-crumbs are thoroughly soaked, add to them the marrow finely shred, the sugar, fruit, spice, and yolks of eggs, mix all to- gether, and, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Pour this mixture into the pre- Eared pie dish, and bake in a good oven until nicely rowned and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Note.—Cherries or candied peel and almonds may be used instead of the currants and raisins. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1843. Mimosa Puddings 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 eggs. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. citron peel, i tea-sp. orange-flower water. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until soft and creamy. Sieve the sugar and mix it well in. Then add the eggs one at a time with some of the bread-crumbs, and beat well between each. Beat all together, and add the flavouring. Grease some small tins or moulds, and sprinkle at the bottom of each some finely-chopped citron peel. Half fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve with custard sauce or wine sauce. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1844. Baked Orange Pudding 2 oz cake-crumbs. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 1 gill milk. 2 oranges. A little pastry. Line a medium-sized pie dish with pastry (see p. 409), and then prepare the mixture. Wipe the oranges with a damp cloth, and grate off the rind on the top of the sugar. Work the rind into the sugar with a broad-bladed knife until they are of a uniform yellow colour. Then put this into a basin, and add the cake-crumbs sieved and the butter broken in pieces. Heat the milk in a small saucepan, and pour it over the crumbs, &c. Stir until the butter is melted, add the yolks of eggs, the strained juice of oranges, and lastly the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix lightly, and pour all into the prepared dish. Bake in a moderate oven until set and of a light brown colour. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1845. Pine-apple and Cornflour Meringue 1 pt. milk. 2 table-sps. cornflour. Tinned pine-apple. A small piece of butter. 2 or 3 eggs. Castor sugar. A pinch of salt. Put the milk into a lined saucepan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a pinch of salt, and heat it over the fire. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little of the syrup from the pine- apple. Add it to the hot milk, stir until boiling, and simmer for five minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs, sugar to taste, and a few drops of vanilla. Cut some tinned pine-apple in small pieces and lay it in a greased pudding dish. Pour the cornflour mixture over, and bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to them a good table-spoonful of castor sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the pudding. Return to a cool oven to set and become delicately browned, and serve hot or cold. A fruit sauce or cream may be handed separately. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Time to cook meringue, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 10<2. 1846. Baked Plum Pudding | lb. flour. 3 oz. su.et. 3 oz. currants. 3 oz. raisins. 1 oz. candied peel. 3 oz. sugar. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Prepare the fruit carefully, and mix it in a basin with all the other dry ingredients. Make a well in the centre, pour in the egg well beaten, and mix from the centre outwards, adding enough milk to bind all together. The mixture must not be made too moist, but it should drop easily from the spoon. Put it into a well-greased baking tin