COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 318 on the top, and then the remainder of the cheese. Lay on a few small pieces of butter, and brown in a quick oven. Probable cost, 10d. 1333, Eggs with Vegetable Marrow 4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 small vegetable mar- row. 1 onion. | pt. white sauce. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. A pinch of mace. Choose a young fresh marrow, and cook it in boil- ing water along with the onion until tender. Then drain and arrange it in a hot dish with the eggs cut in quarters or slices. Make a white sauce (Recipe 671), using half milk, and half water in which the marrow was cooked. Season it with white pepper, salt, a pinch of ground mace and the chopped parsley. When thoroughly cooked, remove it from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg. Pour this sauce over the marrow and eggs, and serve very hot. Probable cost, Is. 1334. Eggs a la Clifton 4 hard-boiled eggs. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. 1 gill brown sauce. Salt. Pepper. Cut the eggs across in two pieces so that they stand like little pyramids. Coat them lightly with flour seasoned with pepper and salt, and then egg and bread-crumb them. Flatten the crumbs on so as to keep the form of the eggs, and then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Arrange them neatly on a hot dish with the pointed ends up, and pour the brown sauce tidily round. Probable cost, 10a!. 1335. Egg Croquettes 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 or 2 table-sps. white sauce. ltea-sp. chopped parsley A squeeze of lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. Some scraps of pastry. Chop the eggs, and add to them enough white, or other suitable sauce, to bind them together. Season with pepper, salt, parsley, and a squeeze of lemon juice. A few chopped mushrooms may be added if available, or a little grated cheese. Use this mixture for making the croquettes, and follow- ing the directions given for Cold Meat Croquettes {Recipe 1018). Probable cost, 6d. 1336. Egg Cutlets 3 hard-boiled eggs. | oz. butter. | oz. flour. £ gill milk. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. J tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. 6 or 8 button mush- rooms. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. Seasoning. Shell the eggs and chop them rather finely, melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and mix until smooth. Then draw the saucepan to one side, add the milk, and cook again over the fire, stirring all the time until smooth and thick. Add now the chopped eggs, the mushrooms finely chopped, the bread-crumbs, and seasoning. Mix well together, and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When firm to the touch, divide the mixture into eight or ten equal-sized pieces, and form these into cutlet shapes with the aid of a little flour. Egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat to a golden brown. Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of parsley stalk in the end of each. Dish in a circle on a hot dish, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—The same mixture may be made up in other shapes if preferred. The mushrooms may be omitted. Probable cost, 9d. 1337. Egg 5 or 6 hard-boiled eggs. 1 table-sp. white sauce. 3 oz. cooked chicken. 1 oz. cooked ham or tongue. Dormers 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halves lengthwise, and remove the yolks. Rub the yolks through a wire sieve into a basin, and add to them the chicken and ham finely minced ; season with the pa sley, pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind, and bind all together with white sauce. Fill the eggs with this mixture, and place two halves to- gether again. Roll them in a little flour, and egg and bread-crumb carefully. Fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour, and serve hot, garnished with a little parsley or watercress. Note.—Other kinds of meat or fish may be used instead of chicken. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1338. Egg Patties Prepare the same mixture as for Egg Croquettes, using a nice tasty sauce to bind the eggs together, and seasoning the mixture according to taste. Prepare some small patty cases (p. 352), fill them with the egg mixture, garnish with small sprigs of parsley, and serve hot or cold. 1339. Curried 3 hard-boiled eggs. 3 table - sps. bread- crumbs or boiled rice. 2 table-sps. curry sauce. 1 raw yolk of egg. Egg Rissoles A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Chop the hard-boiled eggs rather finely and mix them with the rice or bread-crumbs, curry sauce, and raw yolk. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Spread the mixture on a plate, and allow it to stand for some time, or even overnight, before it is made up. Form it into small balls or any other shape, using a little flour; then egg and bread-crumb the rissoles and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Serve them very hot, garnished rsjTth parsley and a little cut lemon. Probable cost, 9d. 1340. Scotch Eggs, 1 4 hard-boiled eggs. Egg and bread-crumbs, i lb. pork sausage meat. Tomato or brown sauce. A little flour. Remove the shells from the eggs and roll them in a little flour, keeping them whole. Season the