COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 590 How to Use GlacS Icing This icing may either be poured over the cakes, or the cakes may be dipped into it. If a large cake is to be iced, put it on a wire stand placed on a sheet of white paper, and pour over enough icing to cover the top only, or the top and sides as desired. Any icing that runs over may be gathered up and used again. Small cakes may be iced in the same way, or they may be held on the point of a palette knife over the pan of icing, and the icing poured over them, or they may be dipped right into the icing. Arrange any decoration on the cakes while the icing is still soft. 2845. Vienna or Butter Icing 6 oz. fresh butter. ] Colouring. 1 lb. icing sugar. | Flavouring. If salt butter must be used, wash and work it in several cold waters, and finally press out the water in a cloth before using it. Put the butter into a basin, and beat it with a wooden spoon or spatula until it is like whipped cream. Then sieve the sugar, and mix it gradually with the creamed butter. Add the desired flavouring and colouring, and the icing is ready for use. The colouring and flavouring of this icing may be varied according to taste. Spirit or liqueur is frequently added, such as rum, maraschino, Curasao, &c. The following are a few examples of different flavourings : 2845. Mocha Icing, 1 Make the icing as in previous recipe, adding very strong black coffee or coffee essence to taste. 2847. Another Mocha Icing, 2 2 oz. loaf sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. Coffee essence. 2 oz. butter. A little water. Put the sugar into a small saucepan, and moisten it with coffee essence and a little water; or very strong black coffee may be used. Boil these to- gether until they form a thick syrup, or to 215° F. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin, break, them with a wooden spoon or small whisk, pour the syrup gradually on to them, stirring all the time, and then beat until cold. Cream the butter, and add the coffee mixture to it. 2848. Chocolate Butter Icing Make the icing as directed in Recipe 2845. Dis- ' solve 2 oz. unsweetened chocolate in 1 table-spoon- ful of water or milk, allow it to cool and mix it with the icing. 2849. Strawberry or Raspberry Butter Icing Add a few drops of essence of strawberry or raspberry to Vienna Icing, and colour pink with carmine. 2850. Orange or Lemon Butter Icing Grate the rind oS an orange or lemon, and rub it into 2 oz. of the sugar to be used for the icing. Make the icing as in Recipe 2845, and colour with a little yellow colouring. Note.—Any of the above icings may be made in half or quarter quantities, or if a number of little fancy cakes are to be iced, the plain butter and sugar may be worked together first, and then the quantity divided and different flavourings and colours added. How to use Butter Icing The icing must be allowed to become quite cold and hard before using. In hot weather the basin containing the icing should be placed on ice or put in a very cold place. If a large plain cake is to be iced, it is usual to split it once or twice, and put a layer of the icing between. Sometimes for this purpose a little thick cream is worked into the icing just before using. Spread a thin coating of the icing on the top and sides of the cake, and put most of the icing into a forcing bag, with rather a large pipe on the end of it. Force out the icing on the cake in stars or scrolls, and do it as quickly as possible, before the heat of the hand has time to soften the icing. If liked, two different colours of icing may be used, such as yellow and pink, yellow and brown, pink and white, &c. Or a very pretty effect can be obtained by putting two different coloured icings into the bag at the same time. It will come out with a marbled appear- ance. Do not put too much of this icing on any cake, as it is decidedly rich. Some other light and suitable deooration may be used as well, such as a little finely chopped pistachio nut, a few rose leaves or violets, small pieces of angelica, &c. 2851. Almond Paste or Icing 1 lb. ground almonds. J lb. fine castor sugar. | lb. icing sugar. Juice of | lemon. Yolks or whites of eggs. 1 or 2 table-sps. brandy. Orange flower water, vanilla or other fla- vouring. Be particular to choose good ground almonds; unless they are fresh and have been well preserved they are liable to have a bitter or mouldy taste, or perhaps no taste at all. Put the ground almonds into a strong basin, and sieve the two sugars on the top of them. Add the flavouring, lemon juice, and brandy. The brandy may, of course, be omitted if it is objected to, but it renders the almond paste more wholesome, and better for keep- ing. Then add enough egg to bind all together. Knead well with the hand, adding the moisture very gradually as the paste becomes soft with working. Either yolks or whites of eggs may be used; the yolks will make the paste richer and yellower, the whites drier, and of a paler colour. Or both yolks and whites may be used if it is more convenient. The paste ought to be very smooth when finished, and just moist enough to be bound together. Whole almonds may, of course, be used instead of the ground, but it will mean a great deal more work. They would re- quire to be blanched and dried, and then very finely chopped or put through a nut mill. A little extra weight should be taken to allow for the skins. The ingredients should then be thoroughly pounded in a mortar in order to get a smooth paste. About half a dozen bitter almonds very finely chopped may be added to the above paste if wished.