PASTRY AND board, scrape it off carefully with, a knife before beginning again. Always sprinkle flour over the board and pastry through a flour sifter, as it makes it finer and lighter. If the rolling-pin sticks to the pastry, dust a little flour over it, and brush it off again lightly with a small brush kept for the purpose. Avoid as much as possible rolling dry flour into the pastry, as it will give it a white and pasty appearance. HINTS ON BAKING PASTRY However Well the pastry is made, it will not be a success unless the baking is carefully attended to. The heating of the oven should be thoroughly understood, as the hottest part in one oven may be the ooolest part in another. An oven with a bottom heat is always best for puff pastry, as this will throw it up before the browning begins to harden the outside. A hot oven is required, but not a fierce one. If not hot enough, the butter will melt and run out of the pastry before the starch grains in the flour have time to burst and absorb it. On the other hand, if too hot, the pastry will burn before it has risen properly. The heat of the oven may be tested with a thermometer or by putting into it a small piece of the pastry. If this piece of pastry browns fairly quickly, the oven may be considered hot enough. For puff pastry the ther- mometer should register about 340° Fahr. to begin with, and when the pastry is well risen the heat may be reduced to about 325°. For meat pies about 300° Fahr. will be hot enough, and for the plainer kinds of pastry the temperature may be still a little lower. Pastry should never be baked in an. oven in which meat is being roasted, or with any other dish that generates steam, as the moist heat would be apt to destroy the crispness of the pastry. It is not always possible to manage this, but for the lighter kinds of pastry it is absolutely essential. The oven door should be opened and closed as gently as possible, and not oftener than is necessary. If the pastry is inclined to become too brown before it is sufficiently cooked, cover it over with a double sheet of paper that has been slightly sprinkled with water. If the pastry is not to be used at once when taken from the oven, allow it to cool slowly in the warm kitchen. When light pastry is transported at once to a cold larder it is very apt to become heavy. TO GLAZE PASTRY Pastry is generally glazed before being put into the oven, except when it has to be baked for a long time, when it is better to leave the glazing until later on. When a rich deep colour is wanted on a meat pie, brush the pastry over with yolk of egg mixed with a very little water. For a lighter brown use the egg (yolk and white together), or egg and milk, or milk alone, may be used for the plainer kinds of pastry. Sweet pastry is generally glazed with slightly beaten white of egg and sugar, or with milk or water and sugar. PASTKY DISHES 333 PART I DIFFERENT KINDS OF PASTRY 1439. Short Crust £ lb. flour. | lb. butter. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. A squeeze juice. Cold water. of lemon Rub the flour and sugar through a wire sieve into a clean dry basin. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if fresh butter is being used, a pinch of salt also. Put in the butter, cover it well over with the flour, and break it in pieces. Then rub to- gether lightly with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until as fine as bread-crumbs. While rubbing, keep lifting the flour well up in the basin, so that air may mix with it, and the butter is not made too soft. Then make a well in the centre of these dry ingredients, and add cold water very gradually with the left hand whilst mixing with the right. Mix with the hand or with a knife. Use very little water in the mixing of this paste, or it will be tough instead of short. Flour the pastry board slightly, lay the dough on it, and work lightly with the hands until free from cracks. Then flour a rolling-pin, press down the pastry first, then with sharp quick strokes roll it out to the thickness required. This pastry only requires to be rolled out once. Roll it on the one side only, and be careful it does not stick to the board. Lift it gently at the sides from time to time and dust a little flour under and over as required. Use no more flour than is necessary for this purpose, as too much will make the pastry hard. Notes.—This is one of the most wholesome kinds of pastry. The butter is so well mixed with the flour, that the latter is better cooked than in some of the more flaky pastries. The pastry may be made richer by using rather more butter, 5 or 6 oz. to | lb. flour, and the yolk of egg beaten up with a little water for mixing. This is sometimes called Biscuit Crust. For a plainer pastry, see below. Suitable for covering fruit pies, tarts, tartlets, puffs, and many fancy sweets. Probable cost, 5d. 1440. Plain Short Crust, or Dripping Crust A pinch of salt. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Cold water. i lb. flour. 3 or 4 oz. lard or dripping. Make in the same way as above. A little castor sugar should be added if the pastry is to be used for a sweet dish. Note.—Margarine may be used instead of the dripping or lard. Probable cost, 3\d. 1441. Suet Crust or Pastry \ lb. flour. £ lb. suet. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Cold water. Weigh the flour carefully, add the salt and baking powder to it, and rub these through a wire sieve into a clean dry basin. Remove the skin from the suet, shred it very finely with a sharp knife, and then weigh it. Put it on to a chopping board, and