325 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 1390. Fried Eggs with Tomato Sauce 4 eggs. £ pt. tomato sauce. Make the sauce boiling hot, and pour it into a round and deepish dish. Keep it hot over the saucepan of boiling water. Then fry the eggs (see Recipe 1324), and as they are ready lay them in the sauce. Serve all very hot. Probable cost, 8d. VARIATIONS OF SCRAMBLED EGG Scrambled eggs may be varied by mixing with them any other ingredient desired. A tea-spoonful of finely chopped parsley, or a quarter of a teaspoon- ful finely powdered mixed herbs, gives a good flavour and makes a simple change. A more savoury dish can be made by spreading anchovy or bloater paste on the toast before putting on the eggs. Or, with the addition of a little minced chicken, veal, ham, or sweetbread, a good luncheon dish is made. The following recipes will illustrate how this can be done, and give ideas for other savoury com- binations. 1391. Scrambled Eggs with Anchovies ((Eufs Brouilles aux Anchois) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, adding 1 dessert- spoonful anchovy essence to the egg mixture. Garnish the dish with fine strips of preserved anchovy which have been warmed on a dish over hot water. 1392. Scrambled Eggs with Cheese (CEufs BrouillSs au Fromage) Prepare in the same way as Recipe 1325, adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls grated cheese and a little made mustard to the mixture. 1393. Scrambled Eggs with Green Peas (CEufs Brouill6s aux Petits Pois) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, adding 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls cooked green peas to the egg mixture before it begins to thicken. The dish may be garnished with slices of baked tomato. Asparagus points may be used instead of peas. 1394. Scrambled Eggs with Ham (CEufs Brouilles au Jambon) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, frying two or three ounces of chopped ham (cooked or uncooked) in the butter before pouring in the beaten eggs, &c. Serve on croutons of fried bread, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Tongue can be used in the same way. 1395. Scrambled Eggs with Kidney (CEufs Brouilles aux Rognons) 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato puree. Seasoning. 2 or 3 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. good stock or Madeira. First prepare the kidneys. Skin them and cut them in dice, removing the core in the centre. Season them well with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and saute them in the butter. Add the wine or stock, and allow them to simmer a few minutes. Scramble the eggs in the usual way, adding to them the tomato puree. Arrange them neatly on a hot dish, make a hollow in the centre, and put in the kidneys. Probable cost, Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. 1396. Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms (CEufs Brouilles aux Champignons) Prepare as in Recipe 1325, chopping a few pre- served mushrooms and cooking them several minutes in the butter before pouring in the beaten eggs, &c. The dish may be garnished with a few rolls of bacon. 1397. Scrambled Eggs with Spinach (CEufs Brouilles aux Epinards) Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569; and shape it in a circle on a hot dish. Serve nicely scrambled eggs in the centre. If liked the scrambled eggs may be mixed with a little tomato pur6e. 1398. Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes, 1 (CEufs Brouilles aux Tomates) 2 or 3 tomatoes. i Pepper. Salt. J oz. butter. | Scrambled eggs. Peel the tomatoes, and cut them in thin slices. Grease a flat fireproof dish, and put the tomatoes into it, seasoning with pepper and salt. Put the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in the oven for 10 minutes. Scramble some eggs, spread them over the tomatoes, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve very hot. Probable cost, lOd. 1399. Scrambled Eggs with Tomatoes, 2 (CEufs Brouilles aux Tomates) 2 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 oz. ham (chopped). 2 eggs. 1 or 2 slices of toast. Parsley. Pepper and salt. Put the tomatoes into boiling water for a minute, lift them out, dry and peel them ; then cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small sauce- pan, add the tomatoes, onion, and ham, cook for about 10 minutes, and season to taste. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the eggs well beaten. Stir again over the fire until the mixture becomes thick, but on no account must itfbe hard. Cut the toast into neat fingers or fancy-shaped pieces, put a little of the mixture on each, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Probable cost, 7d. MISCELLANEOUS EGG DISHES 1400. Eggs en Cocottes (CEufs en Cocottes) Eggs. Seasoning. A little cream or white A little butter, sauce. Butter as many email fireproof dishes as you wish, allowing one for each person. Put a tea- spoonful of cream or white sauce into each and then break in an egg, being careful not to damage the yolk. Season with pepper and salt, and, if