POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 287 Note.—This is one of the best ways of cooking wild pigeons, which are always inclined to be tough. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1173. Pigeons with Green Peas (Pigeonneaux aux Petits Pois) 2 young pigeons. 1 £ oz. butter. 8 to 10 small white onions. J lb. bacon. 1 dessert-sp. flour. | pt. light stock. A bunch of herbs. £ pt. fresh green peas. Seasoning. Prepare and truss the pigeons as for roasting (Recipe 1168). Melt the butter in a saucepan, when smoking hot put in the pigeons and turn them over and over until well browned on all sides. Then lift them out and put into the butter, the onions peeled, and the bacon cut in small pieces. Cook these over the fire for a few minutes, sprinkle with the flour and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling and skim well. Return the pigeons to this sauce along with the green peas and bunch of herbs. Season to taste, cover the saucepan and let all simmer slowly until the pigeons are tender. When ready, serve the pigeons in the centre of a hot dish, with the green peas and onions round. Time to stew, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1174. Pigeons with Rice (Pigeons au Ris) 3 pigeons. Boiling water. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. \ lb. rice. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. Singe, clean, and draw the pigeons, and truss them as for roasting with a needle and string. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them and a little salt. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add a small quantity of vegetables, carrot, onion and celery, cut in small pieces, and a small bunch of herbs, and simmer slowly until the pigeons are tender. Then wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to cover it, boil 5 minutes, strain and rinse with cold water. Return the rice to the saucepan, add to it ab^ut 1-| pint strained liquor from the pigeons, and cook the rice in this until it is tender, but not broken. Add to it the butter, broken in small pieces, and season well with pepper and salt. . Pile the rice in the centre of a hot dish, cut the pigeons in halves and arrange them round. Note.—If liked, the rice may be mixed with a few green peas, tomato cut in small pieces, or a little ham. lime to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1175. Braised Pigeons with Spaghetti 3 small pigeons. 2 oz. ham or bacon. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. Stock. 4 to 6 oz. spaghetti. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. Singe, draw, and clean the pigeons, and truss them as for roasting with a needle and string. Then take a stewpan large enough to hold them and arrange in it a bed of vegetables, carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, cut in small pieces. Add to these the ham or bacon cut In small pieces, the bunch of herbs and enough stock to cover. Bring this to the boil and lay the pigeons on the top. Cover with greased paper and braise on the top of the stove or in the oven until the pigeons are nearly tender. Then remove them, cut them in halves and place them on a greased baking tin. Strain the stock in the stewpan, remove the grease and pour it over the pigeons. Then set the tin in a moderate oven and continue the cooking, basting frequently, until the pigeons are brown and the liquid reduced to a glaze. Have ready some nicely cooked spaghetti (see Recipe 1619), and add to it the butter. Arrange the pieces of pigeon neatly on a hot dish and put the spaghetti round. Time to braise, 1 to H hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1176. Stuffed Pigeons with Mushrooms 2 pigeons. Forcemeat. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. flour. \ pt. stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Seasoning. 1 cupful shred mush- rooms. First prepare some forcemeat according to directions given in Recipe 1276. Then bone the pigeons. Lay the birds on a board with the back uppermost and cut through the skin right down the centre of the back. Then with a small pointed knife cut the flesh carefully from the carcase, being careful not to make holes in the skin. Disjoint the legs and wings and remove the carcase bone, but leave the legs and wings unboned. Spread the pigeons out on the board, season them with pepper and salt, and put some forcemeat into the centre of each. Fold the flesh over, and sew up into their original shape, truss as for roasting and dust with dry flour. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a stewpan, and when smoking hot put in the pigeons and brown them well on all sides. Then lift them on to a plate. Add the chopped onion to the fat in the pan, and stir it over the fire until lightly browned. Add the flour and brown that also; then pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Now return the pigeons, cover the saucepan, and cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the birds are tender, turning them over once or twice during the cooking. When the pigeons are ready, lift them out, remove the trussing strings and keep them warm. Skim the sauce left in the pan, add the lemon juice, more seasoning if neces- sary, and then the mushrooms. Simmer a few minutes longer and pour round the pigeons. If fiesh mushrooms are used, time must be allowed for them to cook. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient fcr 5 or 6 persons. 1177. Pigeon Cutlets a la Duchesse (Cotelettes de Pigeon a la Duchesse) 3 pigeons. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. f lb. sausage meat or other meat farce. 1 pig’s caul. I white of egg. A little meat glaze. Potato or spinach border. Sauce piquante. Prepare the pigeon cutlets as in next recipe, cooking them for a short time in butter and press-