COOKERY EOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 446 to the eggs, then return all to the saucepan, and stir oyer the fire until it thickens. At this point remove the stewpan from the fire, and add to the custard the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Stir for a minute or two longer over the fire, but it must not boil. Serve in a glass dish or bowl. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10d. to Is. sweeten and flavour it to taste, and pile it on the top. Decorate with a few ratafia biscuits or blanched and shred almonds. 2011. Hazel Nut Cream (Creme aux Noisettes) Make in the same way as Walnut Cream, substi- tuting hazel nuts for walnuts. 2007. Coffee Cream (Creme au Cafe) \ pt. double cream. 1 pt. coffee custard. § oz. sheet gelatine. 2 table-sps. black coffee. A few drops of vanilla. Coffee Custard. 1 gill black coffee. 1 gill milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 1 white of egg. 2 oz. sugar. Decorations—Sweet jelly, gold leaf. Decorate the bottom of a mould with some sweet jelly into which a little gold leaf has been stirred, and allow it to set. To Make the Cream.—The coffee used must be strong, clear, and of good quality, or coffee essence may be substituted, the quantity of liquid being made up with water. First make a custard with the above ingredients, and according to directions given under Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030). Dissolve the gelatine carefully in the 2 table-spoonfuls of coffee, and strain it into the custard. Then whip up the cream, add to it the sugar and vanilla, and when the custard has cooled a little, mix it lightly, but thoroughly, with it. Stir occasionally until the mixture shows signs of setting, and then pour it into the prepared mould. Set aside in a cool place until firm. When required, turn out on a pretty dish, and decorate with preserved fruits or chopped jelly. Note.—The decoration may be varied according to taste. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2008. Ginger Cream (Creme de Gingembre) Make in the same way as Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), omitting the vanilla and adding 2 or 3 oz. preserved ginger cut in small pieces, and dissolving the gelatine in half water and half ginger syrup. The mould would look pretty if decorated with small pieces of ginger and chopped pistachio nut set in clear jelly. 2009. Gooseberry Cream (Creme de Groseilles) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream (Recipe 1994), using a puree of cooked gooseberries instead of the apricot purde. 2012. Hollandaise Pudding 2 small sponge cakes. 1 1 oz. sweet almonds. 1 doz. ratafias. i 3 or 4 drops ratafia 2 oz. preserved fruits. j essence. £ pt. custard. 1 gill thick cream. | oz. gelatine. ) Make \ pint good custard (see Recipe 794) sweeten it to taste, and add a little ratafia essence. Dissolve the gelatine in a little milk or water, and strain it into the custard. Now break up the sponge cakes, and put them into a basin with the ratafia biscuits. Pour the custard hot over them, and allow all to soak for a short time. Remove the hard sugar from the preserved fruits, and cut them in small thin pieces, reserving a few pieces to decorate the pudding. Add the cut-up fruit to the pudding mixture along with the almonds, blanched and shred, and, when the custard is beginning to set, pour all into a wet mould, and put in a cool place to stiffen. When firm to the touch, turn out and decorate on the top and round the sides with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured, and pretty pieces of preserved fruit. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2013. Italian Cream (Creme a l’ltalienne) 1 pt. milk. 3 eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. A pinch of salt. | oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Flavouring. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk. Pour it into a basin, and add flavouring to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, and pour it into the custard. Mix well together, and strain all into another basin. When the custard begins to stiffen, stir in very lightly the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Turn all into a wet mould, and set aside until firm. When wanted, turn out on a glass or silver dish. Notes.—The mould may be decorated with a little pink jelly before pouring in the cream mix- ture. A cold fruit sauce or a puree of fruit may be poured round the cream when it is turned out. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 2010. Gooseberry Trifle 1 lb. gooseberries. Sugar and water. \ pt. good custard. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. Vanilla. Decoration. Stew the gooseberries until soft and pulpy with very little water, and sugar to taste. Then rub them through a sieve fine enough to keep back all the seeds. Put this gooseberry pulp into a glass or china dish, and let it become quite cold ; pour some good custard over, and stand again a short time. Then whip the cream until thick. 2014. Lemon Cream (Creme au Citron) | pt. double cream. \ pt. custard. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 large lemon. 1 oz. French gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Decoration. Some clear jelly, small pieces of angelica or chopped pistachio nut Take a l-|-pint mould, ornament it with the above, or any other suitable decoration, and put it aside to set. To Make the Cream.—Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth, and grate off the yellow rind on the