SWEET MAKING 607 vanilla, and spread out on an oiled or buttered tin. Mark in squares when set. 2915. Ginger Toffee 2 lbs. brown cane sugar. 1 large tea-sp. ground | cup white vinegar. ginger. 1 oz. butter. Put the sugar and ginger into a saucepan, mix them together, and add the butter and vinegar. Stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until the sugar melts, then bring to the boil, and boil until the toifee breaks crisp when tested in cold water. Pour out in an oiled tin, and break in pieces when cold. 2916. Lemon Toffee, 1 | lb. white sugar. § tea-cupful water. | lb. brown sugar. Rind and juice £ lemon. 2 oz. butter. Grate the rind of £ a lemon, and put it on a plate with the butter. Strain the juice into a saucepan, add the two kinds of sugar and the water, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire until the sugar is melted. Then bring to the boil, stirring occa- sionally. When boiling, put the lid on the sauce- pan, and boil covered for a minute or two, so that the steam may wash the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the fid, and boil without stirring to 300° F., or until crisp when tested in cold water. Now draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and add the butter with the lemon rind, a small piece at a time. When all is melted, give the toffee one more boil up, then pour out on an oiled tin and, when firm enough, mark across in square pieces. When cold, wrap m wax paper or store in a tin box. 2917. Lemon Toffee, 2 2 lbs. brown cane sugar. I Grated rind 1 lemon. | tea-cupful lemon juice. | 1 oz. butter. Put all the ingredients into a saucepan, and let them stand by the side of the fire until the sugar is melted. Then bring to the boil, stirring all the time, and boil to 300° F., or until crisp when tested in cold water. Pour at once into a well-greased tin, when set, mark across in small squares, and when cold, break in pieces. Store in an air-tight tin, or wrap up in wax paper. 2918. Peppermint Cushions 1 lb. loaf sugar. | Essence of peppermint. 1 gill cf water. | A pinch cream of tartar. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a lined saucepan and boil to 270° F., removing any scum that may rise. Pour this out on a marble slab, and sprinkle over it a few drops of peppermint. Great care must be taken not to flavour too strongly. Fold over and over with a wooden spatula, and when cool enough pull out with the hands until quite white and firm and in the shape of a long roll. Cut in pieces with a strong pair of scissors. i lb. brown sugar. J lb. white sugar. £ lb. butter. 2919. Russian Toffee, 1 1 gill cream. 1 gill golden syrup. Vanilla flavouring. First dissolve the butter in a lined saucepan or sugar boiler, then add the other ingredients, and flavour nicely with vanilla. Boil all together until the toffee feels crisp when tested in a little cold water. It must be stirred all the time, and when ready it will draw away from the sides of the pan. Pour the toffee into a well-greased shallow tin. Mark it across in squares, and, when nearly cold, cut in pieces with a very sharp knife. Wrap the pieces in waxed paper. Note.—Three or four ounces of grated chocolate may be added if wished. 2920. Russian Toffee, 2 1 lb. granulated sugar. 2 table-sps. water. £ lb. butter. Vanilla flavouring. 1 gill cream. Use either brown or white cane sugar for this. Melt the butter first in a saucepan, then add the sugar and water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Now add the cream and boil again, stirring all the time, until the mixture thickens and hardens when a little is tested in cold water. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add about a tea-spoonful of vanilla essence, and, when the mixture has ceased to boil, pour it into a greased shallow tin. When nearly set, mark it in squares with a knife, and, when cold, break in pieces, and store in a tin box. Note.—A few chopped or shredded nuts may be added at the last if wished. Probable cost. Is. | lb. granulated sugar. | lb. butter. | gill milk or cream. 1 table-sp. red currant 2921. Russian Toffee, 3 jelly. 1 tea-sp. grated choco- late. Vanilla. Put the butter into a saucepan and let it melt over the fire, then add ail the other ingredients except the vanilla. Bring very carefully to the boil, stirring all the time, then continue to stir, and allow the toffee to boil until it thickens and begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan, about 15 minutes. When ready, remove the sauce- pan from the fire, add the vanilla, and pour out quickly on an oiled tin. When set, mark across with a knife into small square or oblong shaped pieces, and, when cold, break apart and wrap in wax paper. 2922. Syrup Candy 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. A pinch of cream of tartar. A pinch of tartaric acid. 1 table-sp. golden syrup. Put the sugar, water, and cream of tartar into a saucepan and boil them to 270° (see Sugar Boiling, p. 597). Then pour out quickly on a well-oiled slab, and put the golden syrup and tartaric acid in the middle. Fold the candy over and over with a wooden spatula, and, when cool enough, pull out with the hands, then double and pull again. Do this as rapidly as possible until the candy becomes light in colour, and becomes too hard to work any longer. Then cut in pieces with a pair of scissors. 2923. Syrup Toffee 1 lb. brown moist sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 tab.-sps. golden syrup. A good pinch cream of tartar or 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Melt the butter in a strong saucepan, add the syrup and then the sugar. Stir until boiling, then