FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES, &c. 461 The value of fruit as an article of diet is well known, and that it should have a place on every table is a recognised fact. Although some fruits are not of much service as far as food is concerned, owing to the large quantity of water they contain, they are valuable on account of their mineral salts, which help to purify the blood and keep the body in good condition. They also supply water in a palatable and refreshing form, and their flavour and juiciness help to stimulate the appetite and give variety and light- ness to a more solid diet. It is now quite possible to have fresh fruit all the year round, because during the time that our own home-grown fruit is out of season, its place is taken by that which comes from abroad. Fresh fruit, prettily arranged, is always beautiful and inviting, and can be eaten without danger by those who are healthy. Others, however, find they can take it more easily in a cooked form, and for this reason, as well as to add a little variety to the ordinary fruit course, it is useful to know how to prepare it in diSerent ways. Compotes or stewed fruits, for instance, are always good, served with light cake or biscuits as a simple dessert, or along with a milk pudding as a more substantial sweet. Fruit salads, too, are universal favourites, especially in hot weather, when a more substantial pudding would be out of place. Then again, it is often necessary to know how to preserve fruit for winter consumption, especially for those who have fruit gardens of their own, and have a glut during late summer and autumn, and no fruit at all during the winter months. This section gives directions for serving fruit in different ways as a dessert, and also for preserving and bottling it in a simple manner for homely consumption. PART I FRUIT COMPOTES AND SALADS, <fcc. 2081. Baked Apples, 1 2083. Compote of Apples, Pommes) 1 (Compote de 1 lb. apples. I lb. loaf sugar. | pt. water. The juice of \ lemon. A few drops of carmine or cochineal. Take the number of apples required, and choose them, if possible, of equal size. Wipe them well with a damp cloth and remove the core with a fork or apple corer. Place them in a baking tin, sprinkle them first with a little water and then with granu- lated sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until soft. The time will depend upon the kind of apple used, and will vary from 20 minutes to 1 hour. When the apples are ready, lift them on to a clean dish and sift a little sugar over. Another Way, 2 Peel and core the apples, roll them in castor sugar, and place them in a fireproof baking dish. Fill up the hole in the centre of the apples with a small piece of butter mixed with sugar and grated lemon rind or ground cinnamon, pour a little water round, and bake in a moderate oven, basting them occa- sionally with the liquid. 2082. Steamed Apples Prepare the apples as in last recipe, placing them in a deep dish, and steam them over a saucepan of hot water until tender, but not broken. This is a very simple way of cooking apples, and if served with cream or custard they are excellent. They may be served either hot or cold. If cold, they may be decorated with a little whipped cream, or red-currant or gooseberry jelly. Put the sugar, water, and lemon juice into a clean fined saucepan, and let them boil quickly for 10 minutes. Meanwhile peel the apples, cut them in quarters, and remove the cores. Throw the pieces into the boiling syrup, and let them cook slowly until clear and tender, but not broken. Then remove the quarters of apple carefully, reduce the syrup a little, and colour it pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. Arrange the apples on a glass dish and pour the syrup over. A few chopped pistachio nuts may be sprinkled over. Notes.—If the apples are small, they may be cored and cooked whole. The centres may then be filled with a little whipped and sweetened cream. A little wine may, if liked, be added to the syrup, and orange juice may be used instead of lemon. A little cream or custard served with the compote is a great improvement. Another Way, 2 Apples. I Sugar. Water. Orange marmalade. | A little arrowroot. Peel and core the apples, keeping them whole. Throw them into a basin of cold water as they are done, to prevent discoloration. When all are ready, place them in a pie dish cr deep baking tin, and fill up the holes in the centre with orange marmalade. Sprinkle the apples with sugar and pour over enough warm water to almost cover