474 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD with water, and steamed in a large saucepan or kettle with bands of straw or hay between, to prevent the bottles touching each other. Pieces of bladder were afterwards used to cover the bottles, or they were corked and covered with resin. With the changed surroundings of domestic life a more systematic and up-to-date method is required, and sterilisers or steam cookers, simple in con- struction and moderate in price, and in which the temperature can be gauged accurately by means of a thermometer, have been put on the market, along with jars or bottles with special air-tight lids, and these make the operation of fruit bottling a very simple one, besides doing away with any haphazard results. The following simple directions for using the Mercia Steriliser (and in general terms the same will hold good for other kinds) may be of use to those who are tempted to take up this fascinating occupation. First of all the fruit must be sterilised, and for this a special steriliser must be used. It will be easier, however, to describe the steriliser after explaining the process of sterilisation. Steril- isation is briefly this—to make sterile or deprive of vitality the bacteriological germs which cause decay and putrefaction in fruit and vegetables, as well as in other forms of food. If these germs are de- stroyed and kept from approaching the sterilised object again, it will keep perfectly sound and good for a considerable time, possibly an unlimited time. This result is brought about by the following pro- cess. The article (fruit or vegetable) to be sterilised is packed into a glass jar or bottle, which is then filled with cold water and closed either by a metal or glass cap fastened by a clip or a screw; the bottles are placed in a vessel containing cold water ; heat is applied in one form or another, and the temperature of the water bath is slowly raised until it is sufficiently high inside the glass jars to kill the bacteriological germs. The exact degree of heat required to destroy the germs varies considerably according to the object which is being sterilised ; in fact, some fruits and some vegetables require three or four successive sterilisations (by which first one bacteriological family and then another are destroyed) to bring about the required con- ditions. The hot air and steam, by which the bottles in the steriliser or other vessel are now surrounded, causes the water or juice inside the bottles to get hot and expand, until it reaches the air-tight capsule or cover. The requisite temperature is sustained for some time at an equal height until the process is complete (this can be determined to a nicety by the fixed thermometer), and the bottles are either lifted out. and put into a cool place, or else cold water is turned into the machine whilst the bottles are in it (the hot water having been previously drawn off). With the decreasing temperature the vacuum is created, and unless the caps or tops are imperfect or imperfectly adjusted, and so admit the air, the contents of the jar, as before stated, will keep for any length of time, because germs do not incubate in a vacuum. This, then, is the theory carried out by the process of sterilisation, li sufficiently complete, and, as before stated, the requisite temperatures for the different fruits and vegetables have been proved, and these tempera- tures have been registered by a thermometer, the vacuum is attained and the germs made sterile. It may chance, however, that the rubber bands or the caps are not placed on the bottles quite evenly, or, if the cap is screwed, that the screw ring is not quite perfect; then, if from one cause or another air is admitted, as a certain consequence the vacuum is destroyed, the germs come into life, and immediately begin to cause decay and de- composition or fermentation. If this is not at once noted, and the batch of bottled fruit re- sterilised and re-capped, it will all go bad. In the Mercia Patent Steriliser every attempt has been made to put upon the market a steriliser Mercia Steriliser which is the outcome of practical experience, pre- sented in a portable, tangible, practical, and work- manlike form, and at a price which brings it within the reach of all who are taking the bottling of fruit year by year seriously. It is made in three sizes, of the best steeled tin. The largest. A, takes twenty-five bottles, holding 2 lbs. each, i.e. 50 lbs. of fruit—price £4. The second size, B, takes twelve bottles, containing 2 lbs. each—price, £3, 3s. The third size, C, which is for household use, holds six bottles, containing 2 lbs. each, or nine smaller ones—price 18s. These can be obtained from any of the large stores. Upon the copper bottom of the vessel stands a low tin shelf pierced with holes. The bottles, when filled, stand on this shelf, and it prevents them from cracking, as they are liable to do, by coming into too close contact with the heating underneath. In the lid is an aperture in which is inserted a socket; into this socket is screwed (when it is required) a specially constructed ther- mometer, consisting of a long tube, the bulb of which reaches about midway down the bottles which contain the fruit for sterilising (see illustra- tion). As will be readily understood, when the water in which the bottles is immersed is heated and turned into steam, the temperature at which the process is actually going on is registered on the porcelain scale above the lid, and it is thus pos- sible to adjust the temperature to a degree. The necessary heat for the Mercia steriliser can be supplied either by using a small oil stove or gas- burner and raising the steriliser on a strong stand above it, or the ordinary kitchen range, upon which the steriliser may stand. Special bottles must be used with lip and clip