623 CHAFING-DISH COOKERY 3006. Brook Trout Fresh brook trout, when they can be procured, are delicious if cooked in the chafing dish. Clean the fish, removing the trails and gills without split- ting them open. Then dry them in a cloth and dust them lightly with flour, seasoned with pepper and salt. Melt a small quantity of butter in the blazer. When hot, lay in the trout, and fry them on both sides until sufficiently cooked. Serve on a very hot dish garnished with parsley or water- cress. Maitre d’hotel butter may be served separately. 1 3007. tea - cupful cheese. tea - cupful crumbs. Cheese Fondue on Toast grated 1 oz. butter. \ tea-cupful milk, bread- \ tea-sp. mustard. Cayenne. 1 egg. Put the butter and milk into the chafing dish, and bring them to the boil over the lamp. Add the bread-crumbs and cheese, season to taste, and heat carefully, stirring all the time until the cheese is melted. Then add the egg, well beaten, make thoroughly hot, and serve at once with toast bis- cuits, or fingers of toast. 3008. Cheese Fritters Cheese. Frying batter. Butter. Choose Gruyere, Cheddar, or Dutch cheese, and cut some small slices about J of an inch in thick- ness. Prepare a small quantity of batter according to Recipe 1861, allowing it to stand at least | hour before using it. Then melt a little butter in the chafing dish, dip the slices of cheese in the batter, and fry them a nice brown colour on both sides. Drain and serve very hot. 3009. Creamed Chicken 1 cupful cooked chicken. I Seasoning. 1 cupful white sauce. | Toast. Trim the chicken free from skin and gristle, and chop it finely. Put a cupful of good white sauce into the blazer over the hot-water pan. Mix in the chicken, season to taste, and then cover until all is thoroughly hot. Serve with fingers of toast. 3010. Chicken with Macaroni 1 cupful cooked chicken. 1 cupful cooked macaroni 1 or 2 oz. butter. \ cupful milk or cream. 1 cupful tomato pur^e. Seasoning. Cut both chicken and macaroni into small neat pieces. Melt the butter in a chafing dish, add the cream and tomato puree and bring all to the boil. Then put in the chicken and macaroni, season to taste, make all very hot and then serve. 3011. Chicken Livers on Toast 3 or 4 chicken livers. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 tea-cupful stock. | glass sherry Madeira. Seasoning. Toast. or Wash and trim the livers, dry them and cut them in small pieces. Then toss them in the flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in the blazer of the chafing dish, put in the prepared liver, and cook it over the flame, stirring constantly until nicely browned. Add the stock and wine, and mix well. Now place the blazer over the hot- water pan, cover, and cook from 10 to 15 minutes. Serve on toast or on croutons of fried bread. A few chopped mushrooms or olives may be added if wished. 3012. Crab with Radishes 1 bunch radishes. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Seasoning. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 cupful crab meat. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 glass white wine. Scrape or peel the radishes and cut them in thin slices. Melt the butter in the chafing dish, put in the prepared radishes and cook them slowly for 10 minutes or until tender. Mix in the flour, add the milk, and stir until boiling. Then put in the crab meat and let it warm through in the sauce. Beat up the yolks of eggs with the wine, and stir them in quickly without letting the mixture boil again. Serve at once. 3013. Stuffed Figs Take the required number of pulled figs, and insert in the centre of each a few blanched and split almonds. Now, for each \ dozen figs, put into the chafing dish 1 table-spoonful castor sugar, a good squeeze of lemon juice, and a glass of red wine. Heat these ingredients over the lamp without allowing them to boil, then put in the figs, cover, and cook slowly about 10 minutes, or until the figs are tender. Serve either hot or cold. 3014. Fish Rarebit 1 oz. butter. \ oz. cornflour. 1 gill white or fish stock. 1 cupful cooked fish. 2 table-sps. grated | cheese. Seasoning. 1 egg. 1 table-sp. sherry. Hot buttered toast. Melt the butter in the blazer, and mix in the corn- flour. Add the gill of stock, and stir until boiling. Then sprinkle in the cheese, and stir carefully until melted. Now add the fish, chopped or flaked, and lastly, the egg beaten with the wine. Make all thoroughly hot without boiling, and serve on fingers of hot buttered toast. 3015. Rechauffe of Fish | lb. cooked fish. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 table-sp. lemon juice or vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. 1 glass sherry or Chablis. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and leave it in large flakes or good-sized pieces. Put these pieces on a plate, pour over them the salad oil and lemon juice or vinegar, sprinkle with the chopped onion, pepper and salt, and stand J hour, turning occasionally. Then melt the butter in the chafing dish, add the tomato sauce and wine, and bring to the boil. Now lay in the fish, and baste it with the liquid until thoroughly heated. Serve at once.