COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 90 pepper and salt, and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Put the remainder of the butter on the top, and cover with greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, or until the fish is cooked. Then lift it with a fish slice or broad-bladed knife on to a hot dish, and keep it warm while the sauce is being made. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and seasoned milk. Strain into it the liquid left in the baking tin, add the cream, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Allow the sauce to boil for two or three minutes longer, then pour over the fish, coating it well. Garnish with a little finely chopped parsley and thin slices of lemon. Serve hot. Time, about 20 minutes to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 215. Halibut, Mayonnaise of (Fletan a la Mayonnaise) 2 lbs. halibut. \ pt. mayonnaise sauce. Salad to garnish. Boil or steam a nice middle cut of halibut, being careful not to overcook it, or it will lose its shape. Drain well and remove the skin. When quite cold, lift on to a clean dish and pour the mayonnaise sauce over it, coating it carefully. Arrange some pretty green salad round the sides, and decorate the top with finely chopped parsley and lobster coral, thinly sliced cucumber, sprigs of chervil, small pieces of tomato, or any other suitable decoration. Another Way.—The remains of cooked halibut can be very well utilised in this way. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and break it in flakes. Then shred finely some lettuce or other fresh green salad, and arrange a layer at the bottom of a (fish. Put a layer of fish on the top, cover with mayonnaise and continue thus with the different layers until all is used. The last layer should be the sauce, and the ingredients should be shaped in the form of a dome. Decorate prettily in the same way as above, putting a nice bunch of salad on the top, such as the heart of a young lettuce opened out. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Herring (Harengs) One of our most abundant fish, and generally exceedingly cheap. It is highly nutritious and rich in flavour, but, being of an oily nature, is not so easily digested as some of the white fish. When fresh the herring has a bright and silvery appear- ance, if red about the gills it has been dead some time. It ought to be well covered with scales and be plump in form. The herring is dried and cured in a variety of ways. We have the kipper, the bloater, the salt and the red herring. Almost every country has its own method of curing. 216. Herring, To Broil, 1 (Harengs Grilles) Herring. I Salad oil or melted Pepper and salt. | butter. Maltre d’hotel butter or mustard sauce. Choose herring with soft roes if possible. Cut the heads and fins off the fish, and clean without splitting them open. Scrape off the scales with a knife, and dry the fish in a cloth. Score the skin across diagonally with a knife three times on each side, brush the herring over with a little salad oil or melted butter, and season with pepper and salt. A little finely chopped parsley may also be sprinkled over them. Grease and heat a gridiron or hanging grill, and cook the fish on this, either over or in front of a nice clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. They will require from 7 to 10 minutes to cook, and must be turned once or twice. Serve on a very hot dish with a dish paper under them. Small pats of maitre d’hotel butter or mustard sauce (see Recipe 770) may be served separately. Time to cook, 7 to 10 minutes. Herring. A little flour. 217. Herring, To Broil, 2 | Pepper and salt. I Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare the fish in the same way as for Fried Herring (see below). Coat them lightly with flour, seasoning with pepper and salt. Then egg and bread-crumb the herring, and cook and serve according to preceding recipe. 218. Herring, To Fry, 1 (Harengs Frits) Oatmeal. Dripping or clarified fat. Fresh herring. Pepper, salt. Lemon juice. Wash and scrape the herring, cutting off the fins, tail, and head. Split them open and remove the back bone and as many of the small bones as possible. Then score the skin across two or three times to prevent it shrinking up the fish in the cooking. Season the fish with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and, if time permits, let them lie one hour. Shortly before serving put some oatmeal on to a plate, and dip each fish into this, coating them well on both sides. Melt about 2 oz. dripping or clarified fat in a large frying pan. When it is smoking hot put in as many fish as the pan will hold, with the open side downwards. Brown on the one side, then turn with a fish slice and brown on the other. When ready, lift out and drain on kitchen paper. Keep these fish hot while frying the others. Add more fat to the pan when necessary, and see that it is always quite hot before the fish is put into it. Serve the herring on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them, and garnish with some nice sprigs of fresh parsley. Notes.—If the herring are very small they may be fried in deep fat (see p. 248). If there are roes, cook them with the herring, and use them as a garnish. Time, 7 to 10 minutes to fry. 219. Herring, To Fry, 2 (Harengs Frits) Herring. A little flour. Pepper and salt. Dripping or clarified fat. Parsley or fried onion to garnish. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, but do not split them open. Cut off the head, tail, and fins, scrape the skin well with a knife, and then dry the herring in a cloth. With a sharp knife make three scores through the skin on each side of the fish,but do not cut too deep. Mix some flour on a plate with pepper and salt, dip the fish into this, coating them well. Fry according to directions given above and serve very hot, garnishing with parsley or fried onion.