HORS-D’(EUVRE and savouries 493 For fried erofites, cut the bread from £ to £ of an inch in thickness, and then stamp it out in rounds about 2 or 2£ inches in diameter. Other shapes may be cut if preferred, and the croutes may be made larger for the more substantial savouries. Then fry these in clarified butter or fat until a golden brown colour, and drain them well on paper before using. The finest croutes „ are fried in clarified butter, but for ordinary purposes clarified fat, or deep frying fat, will serve the purpose very well. These are used for both hot and cold savouries. If for the latter, they must be as crisp as a biscuit right through. For croutes of toasted bread slice the bread as above, but toast it carefully before cutting it in shapes. Then butter the pieces while the toast is still warm. 2246. Little Croustades for Savouries (Crofites Creuses) These are somewhat similar to the above, only they are made thicker and hollowed out in the centre. Slice the bread J inch or more in thick- ness, and cut out rounds from 2 to 21 inches in Croustades of Bread diameter. Then, with a smaller cutter, cut down the centre of these rounds to about \ inch from the bottom. Fry until crisp and brown, scoop out the centre part, leaving a little hollow case, and drain well on kitchen paper. If preferred, the centres may be hollowed out before frying. 2247. Canap6s These are generally made of brown or white bread and butter cut out in rounds or fancy-shaped pieces. The bread should be rather close in texture, and the slices about J of an inch in thickness. The name canape is also applied to rounds or other shaped pieces of fried or toasted bread; the name signifies “ a sofa,” or something that raises the savoury above the dish. 2248. Pastry Cases or Croustades Take some plain pastry without sugar, roll it out thinly, and stamp out rounds with a cutter. Grease some small round tins, deeper in shape than those used for tartlets, and line them with the pastry. Prick the pastry at the bottom, line the tins with a little paper, fill them with dry rice, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and cooked. Re- move the paper and rice, and if necessary return the cases to the oven to dry the insides. These little cases can be filled with various purges or savoury mixtures, and are used either for decorating entrees or for serving as small savouries. Note.—Cheese or anchovy pastry may be used instead of plain pastry. 2249. BouchSes These are small pastry cases filled with a savoury mixture. The cases should be made of puff pastry in the same way as directed for patties (p. 352), only very much smaller; from li to 2 inches in diameter will be sufficiently large. They can generally be ordered from the confectioners, if it is inconvenient to make them at home. Almost any nice savoury mixture may be used for filling them, also the mixtures given for filling patties. 2250. Pastry Cornets Small cornets of pastry are very useful for serv- ing up savoury mixtures of different kinds. Use either plain short crust, cheese pastry, or anchovy pastry. Roll it out thinly and cut it into rounds 3 or 4 inches in diameter, grease the outside of some little cornet moulds, fold the rounds of pastry over them, moistening the join with a little water or beaten egg. Place these on a greased baking tin and bake in the oven until brown and crisp. When ready, slip out the moulds, and if necessary return the cornets to the oven to dry the insides. These may be used for either a hot or a cold mixture. Note.—The pastry must not be too rich or the cornets will lose their shape in baking. 2251. Batter Cases Prepare some batter the same as for Pancakes, but rather thicker. Put it in a small basin, cover it over, and let it stand in a warm place for an hour or two. To Make the Cases.—Have ready a saucepan of hot fat, not quite boiling; take a fritter mould as in illustration, and dip the cup part into the fat to make it very hot. Dip it into the batter until the little cup is three-parts covered, or as high as you wish the case to be. Then plunge it into the hot fat, when the batter on the outside of the cup will cook and form a little cup. Slip out the mould and let the case cook a minute or two longer to brown the inside. Drain on paper, and proceed to make more cases in the same way. These cases may be made some time before they are required and re-heated for a moment in hot fat. They are exceedingly light in texture, and may be filled with almost any kind of savoury mixture. They can also be used for entrees. 2252. Butter Cases or Cassolettes Butter. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Take small pieces of firm butter about the size of a walnut, and the number required, and let these lie in very cold or iced water for J hour. Then roll