452 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD decorate it with angelica cut in fine rings, small pieces of cherry, and split pistachio nuts, placing the pistachio nuts and pieces of cherry alter- nately inside the rings of angelica. Cover the decoration with a little more jelly and let it set. To Make the Mixture.—Cut the tops off the chest- nuts, bake them in the oven until they crack, and then remove the shells and skins. Now put them into a saucepan with the sugar, the thinly-peeled rind of a lemon, and water to cover them. Stew them slowly until tender and nearly dry, and break them up with a fork or spoon. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs and milk. Dissolve a good 4 oz. of gelatine in a little water, add it to the custard, and strain all beside the chestnuts, and rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Add the brandy or any other flavouring preferred, and last of all the cream whipped stiffly. Stir in just a few drops of carmine, without making the mixture actually pink. Fill up the fined mould with the chestnut mixture and set it aside to cool. When wanted, turn out on a crystal or silver dish with a lace-edged paper under it. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. 2041. Chocolate Bavaroise (Bavaroise an Chocolat) 4 pt. milk. 3 oz. vanilla chocolate. 3 yolks of eggs. Sugar. 4 oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. A few drops of vanilla. 1 gill cream. Some clear jelly. unmoulded. The mixtures must be put into mould or dish in a setting condition, and one layer must be set before putting in another. Bavaroise RubannS 2043. Bavaroise of Strawberries (Bavaroise aux Fraises) 4 pt. custard. | pt. double cream. 4 pt. strawberry puree. 1 oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 table-sps. water. A few drops of carmine. A few whole straw- berries. Sweet almonds. Sugar. First make a rich custard with 4 yolks of eggs, about J pint of milk, and sugar to taste (see Recipe 794). Then dissolve the gelatine in the water, strain it into the custard and let this cool. Make the strawberry puree by rubbing some fresh straw- berries through a hair sieve. Add this puree to the custard and then stir in the cream, which has Take a simple jelly mould (14 pints) without too much decoration, rinse it out with cold water, and fine it about \ inch thick with lemon or any other clear jelly. Allow this to set on ice, and mean- while prepare a chocolate mixture thus : Grate or shred the chocolate and dissolve it in a little of the milk. When quite smooth, add the re- mainder of the milk and bring to the boil. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin, and strain the chocolate gradually on to them, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan, and stir care- fully over the fire until the yolks thicken like a custard, but on no account must the mixture boil. Pour again into the basin, strain in the gelatine dissolved in a little water, add a few drops of vanilla and, if necessary, a little sugar. Allow this to cool, and then stir in the cream stiffly whipped. Pour this mixture into the fined mould, set aside in a cool place or on ice until wanted, and then turn out on a glass or silver dish. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2042. Bavaroise Rubanne This is made with two cream mixtures of dif- ferent colours and flavours set in layers, such as chocolate and vanilla, strawberry and lemon, coffee and banana, &c. They may either be set in a mould or in a glass dish. A more ornamental dish can be made by fining the mould first with a little clear jelly. A simpler dish may be made by setting the layers of cream in a glass dish. In this way the creams can be made of a more delicate texture and will be pleasanter to eat, as the amount of gelatine may be reduced when it has not to be Bavaroise of Strawberries been whipped until thick. Add a few drops of carmine to make the mixture a pretty pink colour, and stir in at the last a few very small whole strawberries. Pour all into a pretty glass or china bowl, and put it in a cool place to set. Before serving, decorate with fresh strawberries and some split sweet almonds, or with some whipped cream put through a forcing bag, or chopped wine jelly. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 2044. Tea Bavaroise (Bavaroise au The) Decoration. Pink jelly. Gold and silver leaf. Mixture. 3 gills tea. To Prepare the Mould. 3 yolks of eggs. | lb. castor sugar. 4 oz. gelatine. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. brandy. -Take a 14-pint mould, either plain or fancy, and fine it with pink jelly