POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 289 not as preferred. It should be well rubbed over with lemon juice and wrapped in greased paper, and a few prepared vegetables and especially celery should be added to the water or stock in which it is cooked. The time will depend very much on the size and kind of bird used. At least 2 hours should be allowed for one of small size, or from 15 minutes to the lb. and 15 minutes over. Serve with celery, egg, parsley, oyster, or bechamel sauce, and garnish with cut lemon and rolls of bacon, or small egged and bread-crumbed sausages. Boiled ham or tongue usually accompanies boiled turkey. 1182. Braised Turkey (Dinde Brais6) This is a very tasty way of cooking a turkey and especially suitable for one that is inclined to be tough. Prepare and truss the bud in exactly the same way as for roasting (Recipe 1180), stuffing it or not as preferred. The breast should either be larded or covered with slices of slitted bacon. Braise it according to< General Directions for Brais- ing (see p. 210), adding to the braising ingredients a good glass of sherry or Marsala, and the strained juice of a small lemon. The cooking should be done in the oven if possible, and the bird must be turned once or twice during the process. The time required will depend on the age and size of the bird, from 3 to 4 or 5 hours, but success in braising depends on the long and slow cooking. When ready, lift the turkey from the braising pot, place it on a roasting tin, remove the shoes of bacon from the breast, and brown it in the oven, basting it once or twice with some of the stock. Strain the rest of the stock, remove any grease from the top and serve as gravy. Serve with the same accompaniments as roast turkey. 1183. Galantine of Turkey 1 turkey (medium size). 1J lbs. veal. 1 lb. fresh pork. \ lb. fat bacon. \ lb. bread-crumbs. Seasoning. Grated lemon rind. 1 glass sherry. | lb. cooked tongue. 4 hard-boiled eggs. A few truffles. 3 oz. pistachio nuts. Bone the turkey in the same way as directed for boning a fowl (p. 277). Spread it out on a board with the skin side downwards and make it as much as possible of an even thickness, by cutting slices from the breast and laying them over the thin parts of the bird. Season with a mixture of pepper, salt, and a little spice evenly distributed. Make a stuffing with the above ingredients. Cut the veal, pork, and fat bacon into pieces and then put them once or twice through the mincing machine. Mix the bread-crumbs with this and season well with pepper, salt, cayenne, the grated rind of 1 lemon and a little mixed spice. Moisten with the sherry and mix well together until all the ingredients are thoroughly blended. Spread this forcemeat evenly over the boned turkey and then lay over it in rows lengthwise, the cooked tongue cut in strips, the hard-boiled eggs cut in sections, and the truffles and pistachio nuts sliced. Then draw the two sides of the back together and sew up as neatly as possible. Tie up carefully in a cloth, fastening it securely at both ends and also in the middle with a piece of tape, or a safety-pin. Now cook this in the same way as a galantine of fowl, and if possible in stock made with the carcase of the turkey. It will require from 3 to 4 hours to cook, according to size. W hen ready, re-roll the galantine and press it between two boards with a weight on the top until cold. Then remove the cloth, wipe all grease from the turkey, and brush it over with glaze. It may require one or two coatings to give it a nice brown surface. When the glaze is dry, brush over again with liquid meat jelly or aspic to give it a nice glossy appearance. Serve on a clean dish garnished with fancy-shaped pieces of aspic or meat jelly, and some sprigs of fresh green parsley or a little salad. Notes.—If preferred, the galantine may be coated with a white chaudfroid sauce instead of the brown glaze. Sometimes a whole cooked tongue is put inside a galantine of turkey. This should be small, well cooked, skinned and neatly trimmed. It should be placed with the point towards the tail of the bird. In this case, less of the forcemeat would be required. 1184. Curried Turkey 1 lb. cold turkey. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 table-sp. rice flour. \ pt. stock. 1 gill milk or cream. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Cut the remains of cooked turkey into fine, neatly trimmed shreds free from skin and bone, then weigh out 1 lb. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes until a golden brown colour. Add the curry powder, rice flour, pepper and salt, and mix well together. Moisten with } pint stock made from the bones and trimmings of the turkey, and stir until boiling. Put the fid on the pan and simmer a few minutes until the onion is thoroughly cooked. Then put in the turkey meat and add the milk or cream. Heat slowly for 10 or 15 minutes and add the lemon juice just before serving. Serve gar- nished with rolls of bacon and hand boiled rice separately. Note.—The curry may be made hotter if wished, and a little chutney may be added. This may be cooked and served in an earthenware casserole. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1185. Turkey Legs, Devilled, 1 (Dinde a la Diable) Drumsticks of a turkey. | Salt. Black pepper. Oil or butter Mustard. | Cayenne. Score the drumsticks two or three times to the bone, dip them in oil or melted butter, and sprinkle pretty thickly with mustard or curry powder, black pepper, cayenne, and salt. Grease the gridiron and make it hot, and broil the drumsticks over a clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove, from 7 to 10 minutes. During the process baste the pieces lightly with oil or melted butter, and turn them frequently. Serve them with or without devil sauce (Recipe 686). Note.—If the devil is wished very fiery, mix a little mustard with Worcester sauce and a few drops of tabasco (essence of chillies), season with T