COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 451 the syrup, on the top of each with the rounded side uppermost. Whip the cream, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe. Force some out round each apricot, and decorate with finely-chopped pistachio nuts. Probable cost. Is. 2037. Babas au Rhum ! lb. flour. I lb. butter. 4 eggs. 1 oz. sugar. J cup milk. J oz. yeast. A pinch of salt. 1 oz. mixed peel. 1 or 2 oz. currants or sultanas. Syrup. 1 lb. sugar. 1 gill water. Lemon rind. 1 glass rum and 1 glass sherry or other wine, or liqueur. To Make the Babas.—Sieve the flour into a warm, dry basin, cream the yeast with a pinch of salt, add about | tea-cupful of warm milk, and strain into the centre of the flour. Mix together, adding more warm milk if necessary to make a soft dough. Beat well with the hand until the mixture no longer adheres to the fingers and basin. Then cover the dough and set it in a warm place until it has risen to double its original volume. Now break into it two eggs, add the sugar and butter slightly melted, and work them in lightly with the hands. Then add the other two eggs and the fruit (the peel finely shred or chopped, and the currants or raisins cleaned), and beat again until the dough is smooth and shiny-looking. Grease 9 or 10 dariole moulds, and dust them out very lightly with flour. Half- fill them with the dough, and set them to rise in a warm place until the dough reaches the top of the moulds. Then bake the babas in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. Insert a clean skewer to see when they are done. The skewer should come out clean. To Make the Syrup.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan with the thinly-peeled rind of half-lemon. Boil quickly for 10 minutes, then add the wine and rum, and strain before using. To Finish.—Have the syrup boiling hot, dip the babas into it, let them remain a minute or two, then lift out with a draining spoon, and they are ready to serve. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 9 or 10 babas. Probable cost, 2d. each. 2038. Banana Croutes Sponge cakes or Genoese pastry. Raspberry or apricot jam. Bananas. Whipped cream. Crystallised violets. Slice some sponge cake or other w hite cake, and cut it in oval-shaped pieces the length of a small banana. Spread these on one side with apricot or raspberry jam, and place the half of a small banana on the top. The bananas should be halved lengthwise, but if large they must be cut in four pieces instead of two, as the croutes wall not look pretty if they are too big. Whip some double cream until thick, and sweeten and flavour it to taste. Put this into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force it out in a border round the pieces of banana, and then make a few roses on the top. Decorate with a few crystallised violets or any other decoration preferred. Another pretty design Banana CroCites is to colour the cream pink and to decorate with a few silver dragees. 2039. Bavaroise of Bananas (Bavaroise de Bananes) Banana Cream. 4 bananas. £ pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 4 yolks of eggs. | oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. orange mar- malade. | pt. double cream. 1 table sp. liqueur. 3 or 4 drops carmine. To Line Mould. ! pt. lemon jelly. 2 or 3 bananas. Chopped pistachio nuts. First line a quart mould with lemon jelly (see p. 433), and decorate it with bananas cut in thin slices, and chopped pistachio nuts. These may either be arranged in alternate strips up the sides of the mould, or in any other design preferred. The decoration must not be laid on too thickly; space must be left for the banana cream to show through. The Banana Cream.—Make a custard with the milk, yolks of eggs, and sugar, thickening it over the fire in the usual way. Dissolve a good J oz. of gelatine in 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the custard. Slice the bananas and pound them in a mortar with the marmalade, add the custard to them gradually, then rub the mixture through a very fine hair sieve or tammy. Whip the cream until thick, and stir it in lightly to the banana puree. Flavour with a little liqueur or any flavouring preferred, and add a few drops of carmine to make the mixture a rich cream colour. Fill up the lined mould with this mixture, and set it aside to cool. When firm, turn out on a silver or crystal dish with a lace-edged paper under it. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 2040. Decoration. Wine jelly. Cherries, angelica, pistachio nuts. and Bavaroisq of Chestnuts (Bavaroise de Marrons) I lb. sugar. Water. 3 yolks of eggs. \ pt. milk. | oz. gelatine. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. brandy. A few drops of carmine. Take a plain or fancy Mixture. 1 lb. chestnuts. Rind of 1 lemon. To Prepare the Mould. quart mould and line it with wine jelly. Then