COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 306 and a glass of red or white wine—white wine is the best to use for partridge or pheasant, and red for other kinds of game. Bring the sauce to the boil and lay in the pieces of game. Cover with the lid, and stand the saucepan by the side of the fire or in a bain-marie for at least 15 minutes, to allow the game to heat through and become thoroughly satu- rated with the sauce. It must on no account boil. To Serve.—Make a nice piece of toast and cut it in three or four pieces free from crust. Lay these on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of game neatly on the top and pour the sauce over. Garnish with heart-shaped croutons of fried bread or pastry, and thin slices of lemon. Notes.—A more economical salmi may be made by mixing a little roast mutton or veal along with the game. Some truffle and mushroom may be added if wished, and small sections of Seville orange are sometimes used as a garnish. 1259. Salmi o! Partridge (Salmis de Perdreau) 1 partridge. Sauce. 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. 1 chopped shallot. Croutons of bread. A small bunch of herbs. £ glass white wine. J glass red wine. 1 tea-cupful brown sauce. Trimmings of game. To Prepare the Game.—Remains of cooked game may be used for the salmi, but it is better when freshly roasted, as it should be underdone. Cut the bird in about eight neat pieces, removing as much of the skin as possible and some of the carcase bones. Put the joints into a small saucepan with a little light stock, and keep them warm without allowing them to boil. Put all the trimmings into a mortar and pound them until reduced to a puree. To Make the Sauce.—Heat the oil in a small saucepan, add the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes until beginning to brown, add the shallot and brown the two together. Then add the bunch of herbs and two kinds of wine, and boil until reduced to about 1 table-spoonful. Add the brown sauce and simmer about hour. Then re- move the saucepan from the fire, add the puree made from the trimmings of the game, mix it in, and give the sauce one boil up. Then strain, pressing the sauce well through the strainer. Return the sauce to the saucepan, put in the joints of partridge, and allow them to remain just long enough to become thoroughly saturated with the sauce. The sauce must not boil after the game puree is added. To Serve.—Prepare an oval-shaped crouton of fried bread and arrange the joints of game neatly on the top. Coat them with the sauce, and garnish with some prettily shaped croutons of fried bread. Note.—Other kinds of game may be prepared in the same way. 1260. Salmi of Game & la Chasseur Prepare in the same way as above, adding some small cooked mushrooms to the sauce. 1261. Game Scallops C oz. cooked game. White bread-crumbs. 1 or 2 oz. cooked ham. A little butter. 1 gill brown sauce. Chop the game and ham finely or put them through a mincing machine. Have ready some good brown sauce flavoured with wine and a little red-currant jelly. Then take 5 or 6 scallop shells, grease them well with butter, and coat them with fine white bread-crumbs. Put in next some of the minced meat and cover and moisten with sauce. Sprinkle the top with more bread-crumbs, or bread- crumbs and grated cheese mixed, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Serve garnished with a sprig of parsley and a small piece of sliced lemon. 1282. Little Game Souffles (Petits Souffles de Gibier) 3 oz. cooked ham. 1 oz. cooked game. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill game stock. 2 eggs. Seasoning. A few fresh mushrooms. Chop the game and ham finely or put them through a mincing machine. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour and then the game stock. Stir over the fire until a smooth paste is formed, and the mixture or panada draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the minced meat, and season carefully with cayenne, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice, and, if liked, a little red-currant or cranberry jelly. Mix well and then beat in the yolks of eggs one at a time. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly at the last. Grease some small china or paper souffle cases, three-quarters fill them with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once with a grilled or baked mushroom on the top of each. Time to bake, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 souffles. Approximate Time Required for Cooking Game and Poultry Chicken . Fowl Duck Duckling Goose Gosling . Guinea-fowl . Pigeon . Rabbit . Turkey (large) „ (small) Black game . Capercailzie . Grouse . Hare Leveret . Ortolan . Partridge Pheasant Pintail . Plover . Ptarmigan Quail Ruffs and reeves Snipe Teal Wheatear Widgeon Wild duck Woodcock How Cooked. . Roasted . Boiled . Roasted Boiied Roasted Boiled Roasted Boiied Roasted Time Required. J to 1 hr. It to 2 hrs. 1 to 1J hr. 45 to 50 mins. 30 to 40 mins. 1£ to 2 hrs. 3 to 1 hr. | to 1 hr. 20 to 25 mins. | to 1 hr. 1 to li hr. 24 to 3 hrs. 1 j to 11 hr. 2 to 4 hrs. f to 1 hr. | to 1 hr. 4 to | hr. 1J to 2 hrs. | to 1 hr. 15 to 20 mins. 25 to 35 mins, i to 1 hr. 1 i to 2 hrs. 20 to 30 mins. 15 to 20 mins. 30 to 35 mins. 12 to 15 mins. 10 to 15 mins. 15 to 20 mins. 20 to 30 mins. 10 to 12 mins. 15 to 20 mins. 20 to 25 mins. 20 to 25 mins.