235 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 8 persons. Probable cost, 4s. fleshy part will do, provided for this dish, but any 942. Stewed Veal with Potatoes (Ragofit de Veau & l’Americaine) 2 lbs. fleshy veal. Hot water. white 7 or 8 potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. A bunch of herbs. ! doz. small onions. Salt. Pepper. I lb. ham. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and put it into a stewpan with hot water to cover it. Bring to the boil and skim well. Prepare the onions and add them with the ham cut in small pieces, pepper and salt. Cover and simmer slowly for 1|: hours. Then add the potatoes, peeled and cut in quarters, and the butter and flour mixed smoothly together on a plate. Continue to cook slowly until the potatoes are ready, and add the chopped parsley at the last. Arrange neatly on a hot dish and serve very hot. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. 943. Stewed Knuckle of Veal with Rice 2 to 3 lbs. knuckle of veal. ! lb. rice. 2 onions. 1 small head celery. Hot water. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea -sp. chopped parsley Wipe the meat and put it into a saucepan with hot water to cover it. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add the onions and celery prepared and cut in small pieces, season with pepper and salt, and stew slowly for 1 hour. Then add the rice, well washed, and cook for 1 hour longer. When ready, serve the meat on a hot dish with the vege- tables and rice round, and sprinkle with chopped parsley. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. lOd. to 2s. 6d. it is not too fat, and not too dry. There is no occasion to buy such an expensive part as the fillet. If the breast is chosen, it is a good plan to ask the butcher to crack the bones before sending it home. Wipe the meat and cut it in convenient- sized pieces, and if wished very white, soak it for an hour in boiling water, then drain and dry. A blanquette is supposed to be very white, and to obtain this effect some cooks soak the meat for several hours, but this is bound to be at the expense of the taste. Melt the butter, or any good white fat, in an earthenware or lined saucepan, put in the pieces of meat and let them cook for a few minutes without browning. Then remove the meat, mix the flour with the fat in the pan, and cook it a minute or two, but always without brown- ing. Now add the warm water by degrees and stir until boiling. Season with white pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a bouquet garni. Return the meat, cover the saucepan, and cook slowly for 1 hour. Then add a few small white onions, or some Spanish onion cut in very thin slices, and continue the cooking an hour longer, or until the veal is quite tender. Just before serving, add the yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Mix them together in a small basin, add to them by degrees a little of the sauce from the veal, then turn them into the saucepan and stir quickly. Taste the sauce to see that it is well seasoned, but do not allow it to boil again. Serve the pieces of meat on a hot dish, piling them rather high in the centre, arrange the onions round, mask all with the sauce, and garnish with some neatly-shaped croutons of fried bread or fleurons of pastry. Notes.—A few button mushrooms may be added to the above if wished, and the sauce can be made richer by the addition of a little cream. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 944. Browned Knuckle of Veal 3 lbs. knuckle of veal. 1 yolk of egg. Bread-crumbs. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pt. veal broth. Juice of £ lemon. Rolls of bacon Cook a knuckle of veal as in last recipe, omitting the rice. When tender lift it out and remove as much of the bone as possible. Fold into a neat shape and fix with a skewer. Then brush over with the yolk of an egg, season with pepper and salt, and coat with fine bread-crumbs. Now place the joint of veal in a good oven until it is nicely browned. Meanwhile make a sauce with the butter, flour, and a pint of the liquid in which the veal was cooked. Season to taste, add the lemon juice, and strain into a sauce boat. Serve the veal on a hot dish and garnish it with rolls of bacon and cut lemon. 945. Blanquette of 2 lbs. fleshy veal. 2 oz. butter or fat. 1 oz. flour. 3 gills warm water. White pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. The breast of veal Veal (Blanquette de Veau) A bouquet garni. A few white onions. 1 or 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Croutons of fried bread or pastry, is a very good piece to take 946. Fricandeau of Veal 3 lbs. cushion or fillet of Flavouring vegetables. veal. Some good stock. Larding bacon. Select a nice thick cut of veal and as compact in shape as possible. Wipe it well and trim it neatly. Then turn it with the best side upper- most, lard it rather thickly on the upper surface, and tie it into a neat oval shape. Prepare a bed of vegetables in a stewpan as for braising (see p. 210), barely cover them with good stock, and lay the meat on the top. Cover with greased paper, put a tight-fitting lid on the pan and braise slowly until the meat is tender, basting it now and again with the stock. When ready, lift the meat on to a baking tin, and place it in a good oven for a few minutes to brown the lardoons and the surface of the meat. Strain the gravy in the sauce- pan into a smaller pan, and boil it down until re- duced to a glaze. Place the meat on a hot dish and pour the glaze over and round. The dish may be garnished with a few baked tomatoes. Serve spinach, sorrel, or some other green vegetable separately. Note.—A glass of white wine may be added to the braising pan if wished. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 7 or