268 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Place over them a piece of greased paper cut to the size and shape of the pan, and poach them over a slow fire. The water must only be allowed to simmer very gently. When ready, the quenelles should be firm to the touch, and should have lost their raw appearance. Lift them out with a draining spoon on to a hair sieve or clean cloth, and drain for a few seconds. Small quenelle- shaped moulds are now sold, which do away with the trouble of shaping in spoons. These little moulds must be very carefully greased, nearly filled with the mixture and then given a good tap Veal Quenelles on the table to make the quenelle meat sink well to the foot. Cover with greased paper, and poach as above. To Serve the Quenelles.—Arrange a border of potato or spinach on a hot entree dish, and place the quenc'les along the top of this, one leaning against the other. Coat them over with bechamel or veloute sauce, and garnish with green peas, asparagus points, or any other suitable garnish. Notes.—Quenelles are sometimes egged and bread-crumbed ; for this they must be allowed to cool after cooking. They may also be stuffed with a fine mince of truffles, or mushrooms with ham. This should be done in the moulds. Time to poach, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1100. Quenelles de Veau a la Florentine Veal quenelles. Egg and bread-crumbs. Grated Parmesan. Cooked spinach. Tomato sauce. Fleurons of pastry. Make some veal quenelles as directed above. They may be either oval or round in shape, or they may be steamed in small moulds. After cooking, let them drain and cool on a sieve, or folded cloth. Then egg and bread-crumb the quenelles, mixing a little grated Parmesan or other fine cheese with the bread-crumbs used. Make them as smooth and even in shape as possible, and fry in boiling fat to a gold n brown colour. Drain well and dish up on a bo der, or against a mound, of cooked spinach. Pour tomato sauce round, and garnish between the quenelles with fleurons of puff pastry. 1101. Quenelles de Quenelle mixture. Ragout of mushrooms. Chopped truffle. Veau & la Supreme Coralline pepper. 4 or 5 fried croutons. Sauce supreme. Prepare some quenelle mixture as in Recipe 1099, and season it nicely. Prepare also a fine ragout of mushrooms (Recipe 516). Then grease 4 or 5 small quenelle or patty tins, and line them with the quenelle mixture; fill up with the ragout of mushrooms, and cover with more of the quenelle mixture, raising this rather high in the centre, and smoothing it over with a knife. Sprinkle with finely chopped truffle and coralline pepper, and press these gently in. Poach these until firm to the touch, or from 10 to 12 minutes. Then turn them out carefully, and dish them on a round crouton of fried bread (the crouton may be hollowed out and some of the mushroom mixture put in the centre) with the decorated side uppermost and pour sauce supreme round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1102. Calf’s Brains a 1’Aurore (Cervelles de Veau k l’Aurore) Calf’s brains. 1 gill white sauce. 1 gill tomato sauce or puree. 2 hard-boiled eggs. A little butter. Croutons of pastry. Prepare the brains as in Recipe 958, and allow them to cool. Cut them in slices and lay the pieces in rows overlapping each other, in a greased fire- proof dish. Mix the white sauce with the tomato sauce, or a thick puree of tomatoes, season rather highly with pepper and salt, and add the whites of the eggs finely chopped and the lemon juice. Pour this sauce over the brains and rub the yolks through a sieve on the top. Sprinkle with a little melted butter and place in a moderate oven until brown and hot through. Garnish with fancy- shaped croutons of pastry. Note.—This may also be cooked and served in small ramakin cases. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1103. Cervelles de Veau a la Nigoise 2 calves’ brains. Flour. Butter. 3 or 4 tomatoes. Seasoning. Parsley or tarragon. Olives or mushrooms. Prepare and cook the brains as in Recipe 958, and allow them to cool. Then cut them in pieces, coat them lightly with flour, and fry them in hot butter until nicely browned. Peel the tomatoes and cut them in pieces, removing the seeds and watery part from the inside. Put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and some chopped tarragon or parsley. Season well with pepper and salt, and cook until reduced to a soft puree. To Finish.—Arrange the puree of tomatoes on a hot dish, place the brains on the top and garnish with olives or mushrooms. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1104. Cervelles de 2 sets of calves’ brains, ljoz.butter. \ oz.flour. 1-1 gills white stock. 2 yolks of eggs. Prepare the brains as cold cut them in shoes, butter, flour, and stock, let them heat through, eggs beaten up with t minute or two longer, l Veau a la Poulette 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Seasoning. 6 croutons fried bread. 6 mushrooms. in Recipe 958, and when Make a sauce with the put the brains into it and Then add the yolks of he lemon juice. Cook a >ut be careful not to boil