629 HERBS, SPICES, CONDIMENTS, &e. Success in cookery depends to a large extent on the proper use of seasonings and flavourings, and greater attention, than is usually thought necessary, should be paid to this important point. A certain amount of skill is necessary in order to use the different flavouring auxiliaries properly, and to judge the exact amount required. No cookery book can teach this, as it is impossible to lay down any hard and fast rules ; but the knowledge is not difficult to acquire, provided the tastes of the individual are considered, and care is taken to make food pleasing to the palate. It is a mistake to think that simple cookery requires nothing further than a pinch of pepper and a pinch of salt to make it palatable ; there are many other simple flavourings which might well be employed to relieve the monotony of an otherwise uninterest- ing fare. While food with an overdose of seasoning should be avoided, there is no occasion to serve that which is insipid and unpalatable through lack of it. Whenever possible, natural seasonings should be chosen in preference to made-up sauces, and other condiments and flavourings ; these latter should only be used when the very best quality can be afforded. Fresh or dried herbs, spices in small quantities, lemon and orange rind and juice, &c., are all simple and do not cost much. Although some palates demand much more highly spiced food than others, it is better, as a rule, to season moderately, and to avoid a mixture of flavours that do not blend, and that even overpower the flavour of that which is seasoned. The aim in seasoning should be to render food more palatable, more digestible, and more appetising to those for whom it is cooked. HERBS Herbs are not so much used as they used to be, when they could be obtained fresh from old- fashioned gardens. In the days of still-rooms, when cordials, pickles, and such like were made at home, various herbs for flavouring purposes Tarragon Chervil were found invaluable, but now they are more used abroad than in this country, and only a few re- main in common use. They have always a better flavour when they can be obtained fresh, but failing this, herbs that have been well dried will be found a very fair substitute. The following are some of our best known herbs : Angelica (angelique).—An aromatic herb or plant resembling rhubarb in size and texture. It is specially cultivated for its leaf stalks, which are boiled in syrup or candied, and used in confec- tionery. It is well known by its pretty green colour, and is useful for ornamental purposes. The fruits or seeds of some kinds of angelica are used for flavouring liqueurs, bitters, cordials, &c., and the stalks are sometimes blanched and eaten like celery. Balm (baume).—Not much used nowadays, but a small sprig is sometimes put into claret cup. Basil (basilic) is reckoned among the sweet herbs and has a very pleasant smell and taste. It is useful as a flavouring both for soups and sauces, but is more used in France than in this country. It can be bought in a ready-dried state. Bay-leaf (feuille de laurier).—The leaves of the bay or common laurel are much used for flavouring purposes, and both for sweet and savoury dishes. A bay-leaf is generally added to a bunch of herbs for soups, stews, sauces, &c., whilst milk that is to be used for making custards and puddings has frequently a bay-leaf infused in it, wliich will give it the flavour of almonds or other nut kernels. Bay-leaves are best when used fresh, but they can also be hung up and dried. Borage—The young leaves of this plant are used for flavouring claret cup, and are occasionally put into salads. Burnet is rather an old-fashioned herb. It used to form one of the ingredients of claret and other wine cups, imparting a flavour of cucumber to tho drink. It is also useful in salads and sauces where chopped herbs are required. Chervil (cerfeuil) can be used both for flavouring and decorative purposes. It is so pretty and deli- cate that it is highly appreciated. It can be dried, powdered, and bottled. Chives (ciboule or civettes).—A small kind of onion with a very delicate flavour. They must be used very fresh, and are frequently put into salads. The leaves finely minced are used for flavouring purposes, and form one of the ingredients of a fines herbes garnish. Fennel (fenouil) is used principally for flavouring some kinds of fish, as in fennel sauce with mackerel. Garlic (ail).—This belongs to the onion tribe and has a very pungent taste and strong smell. The root can be divided into about a dozen small natural divisions, which are called “ cloves of garlic.”