282 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD white of egg used instead. The decoration of the mould may be varied according to taste. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 1148. Mousselines de Volatile 6 oz. chicken flesh. 1 egg. Seasoning. 1 gill cream. 1 truffle. 1 gherkin. Sauce demi-glace. Either cooked or uncooked chicken may be used for this, but the latter is to be preferred. Weigh it free from skin and bone, cut it in pieces, and pass it through a mincing machine. Put the mince into a mortar, add the yolk of egg, season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg and a few drops of lemon juice. Pound well, add by degrees the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, and rub all through a fine wire sieve. Now whip the cream until thick, and mix it in gradually and lightly to the chicken puree. Have ready about £ dozen small timbale moulds, greased and decorated with fancy-shaped pieces of gherkin and truffle; three-quarters fill them with the mixture, shaking it down that it may take the form of the moulds. Then poach the mous- selines carefully until firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with sauce demi-glace round. Note.—Mousseline or supreme sauce may be used if preferred. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1149. Quenelles of Chicken or Rabbit (Quenelles de Volaille ou de Lapin) Make in the same way as Veal Quenelles (Recipe 1099), substituting the white meat from a chicken, or the flesh of a rabbit for the veal. 1150. Chicken Souffle 6 oz. cooked chicken. 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue. 1 oz. butter. A little gratedlemonrind (Souffld de Volaille) 3 eggs. A pinch of mace or nut' meg. Salt. Pepper. 1 gill good white sauce. Mince the chicken and ham together and then pound them well in a mortar with the butter and white sauce. This latter must be thick or the mixture will be too moist. Any remains of sauce will do, and if too thin a few bread-crumbs may be added. Season the mixture nicely, work in the yolks of eggs, and then rub all through a wire sieve. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased china souffle dish, not filling it more than two-thirds full, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve the souffle at once in the dish in which it was baked. Sauce may be served separately if wished, but is not necessary. Notes.—Small individual dishes may be used instead of the large one. Other kinds of meat may be used instead of the chicken. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1151. Chicken Livers & la Madere (Foies de Volaille a la Madere) 5 or 6 chicken livers. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill good stock. 1 glass Madeira. Salt. Pepper. Croutons of bread or pastry. Cut the gall and any green parts from the livers, then wash them carefully and dry in a cloth. Now cut them in pieces, and coat them lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a frying or saute pan, when hot put in the prepared livers, and turn them about constantly until brown and cooked. Then add the stock, wine, and seasoning, and simmer slowly for a few minutes longer. Serve very hot, garnished with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—A few mushrooms or stoned olives may be added to the livers if wished. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1152. Pilaff of Chicken Livers (Pilaff de Foie de Volaille) £ lb. chicken livers. U oz. butter. 1 gill brown sauce. Seasoning. Pilafi of Rice (see Recipe 1594). Wash the livers and allow them to soak in cold water a few minutes. Strain and dry them in a cloth. Then cut them in several pieces according to size. Melt the butter in a frying pan, put in the pieces of liver and fry them over a good fire for a few minutes. Strain off the butter, which may be added to the rice, and add the brown sauce to the liver. Season to taste. Have ready prepared a pilaff of rice, press it into a well-greased border mould and allow it to take the form. Turn out on a hot dish, put the cooked livers in the centre and pour some brown sauce round. 1153. Roast Duck (Canard Roti) 1 duck. Salt. 3 or 4 apples. | doz. French plums. Butter or dripping 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 cupful stock. Watercress. To Prepare and Stuff the Duck.—Singe and draw the duck, making a slit lengthwise above the vent, to facilitate the pulling out of the inside. Then wash the bird quickly in warm water and dry it in a cloth. Cut off the feet and wings at the first joint and season the bird with salt inside and out- side. It may now either be trussed and simply roasted, or filled with stuffing, as preferred. One of the simplest stuffings for a duck is made of apples and French plums. Choose apples that soften easily in cooking. Take 3 or 4 according to size, peel them, cut them in small sections and remove the cores. Add to these about \ dozen French plums, which have been soaked and stoned. Put this mixture into the body of the duck and sew up the opening. Then truss in the same way as a fowl (see p. 276), except that the wings are not crossed over the back. To Roast.—Keep the breast of the bird well covered with greased paper while roasting. Baste frequently with good butter or dripping and follow General Directions (see p. 207). A short time before taking the duck from the oven, remove the paper, dredge the breast with flour and leave it in