COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 460 2076. Rice a la Royale (Riz a la Roy ale) 3 oz. Carolina rice. | pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. Custard. 4 yolks of eggs. b pt. milk. \ tea-sp. cornflour. Vanilla. 1 gill double cream. 2 sheets gelatine. Stewed or tinned pears. Chopped pistachio nuts. Stew the rice in the milk until tender and let it cool. Make the custard, adding the above small quantity of cornflour to give it a little more consistency. Flavour with vanilla, strain, and divide it into two equal portions. To one portion add the gelatine dissolved in a little water, and reserve the remainder to use as a sauce. When the rice is cool, add to it the custard, which contains the gelatine, along with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of thick cream, and more sugar if neces- sary. Mix lightly, and arrange this neatly in a glass or pretty china dish. Take some nicely cooked pears, wipe them dry from any syrup; if large cut them in two or three pieces, and place these on the top of the rice. Add any remaining cream to the rest of the custard, and pour it over. Sprinkle with a few chopped pistachio nuts or some shred almonds, and serve very cold. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 2077. Savarin Chantilly Make the same mixture as for Babas au Rhum (Recipe 2037), but omit the currants, and, instead of baking it in dariole moulds, bake in a border mould that has been well greased and dusted out lightly with flour. When cooked, baste it well with the rum syrup, and when ready to serve fill the hollow in the centre with whipped cream that has been sweetened and flavoured with a little vanilla. A few pieces of preserved fruits or some chopped pistachio nuts may be used for decoration. 2078. Savarin with Cherries (Savarin aux Cerises) A savarin. 2 oz. loaf sugar. 2 table-sps. water. 1 table-sp. liqueur. \ lb. cherries. Castor sugar. 1 gill double cream. Vanilla. Angelica or pistachio nuts. The savarin, which must have been baked in a border mould, may either be bought ready or made according to directions given in last recipe; or, failing a savarin, use a sponge cake that has been made in a border mould. Make a syrup with the loaf sugar and water, and add to it enough kirsch or other liqueur to flavour it well. Allow it to cool, and pour sufficient over the savarin to soak it without making it soppy. Wipe the cherries, removing the stalks and stones, put them on a fire-proof dish, and sprinkle them well with castor sugar. Place them in a very moderate oven, and allow them to cook without any liquid. Then put them aside to cool. Whip the cream, flavour it with vanilla, and sweeten it to taste with castor sugar. To Finish the Sweet.—Put the savarin on the dish on which it is to be served, fill up the centre with the cherries, and pile the cream on the top, or put it through a forcing bag, forcing it out in a pretty design. Decorate with a few fresh uncooked cherries and small leaves of angelica, or a little chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2079. Savarin aux Fraises Make in the same way as the above, using strawberries instead of cherries. To Prepare the Strawberries.—Pick off the stalks, sprinkle them with sugar and a little kirsch or other liqueur, and allow them to stand for half an hour in a cool place. No cooking is required. 2080. Timbale de Fruits & la Parisienne A large brioche. i Fruits cooked in syrup. Apricot puree or mar- Vanilla. malade. A little kirsch or other Preserved fruits. j liqueur. To Make the Brioche Case or Timbale.—Take a large brioche cooked in a souffle tin to give it a straight form (Recipe 2662), and, if possible, let it be a day old. Cut off the top and reserve it for a cover. Then with a fine-pointed knife cut round the inside of the brioche a little distance from the crust, and to a depth of about 1 inch from the foot. Pass the knife round once or twice to make sure that the inside is free from the crust. Then slip in the knife through the crust an inch or so from the bottom of the brioche, and move it about from right to left so as to sever the centre piece entirely, making the hole as small as possible. Now lift out the soft centre part, leaving a case or crust of brioche. To Glaze the Timbale.—Take some thick apricot puree, made by rubbing tinned apricots or apricot marmalade through a sieve. Put it into a saucepan with some of the syrup from the fruit (see below), flavour with vanilla or a little liqueur, and boil quickly until reduced to a thick syrup or jelly. Brush over the brioche timbale with this, and also the cover, to glaze them well; then decorate them with pieces of preserved fruits, shred almonds, cocoanut, &c., and according to taste. The Fruit for Filling.—Take any fresh fruits, according to season, and cook them in a syrup of sugar and water flavoured with vanilla until they are tender. The pieces of fruit should be rather small in size, so that they will fit into the timbale easily. A little tinned fruit may be mixed with the fresh fruit if liked, or a few small pieces of preserved fruit. A little liqueur may also be added, and the apricot glaze left over after glazing the brioche. To Finish.—Fill up the brioche with the fruit, putting in as little of the syrup as possible. Put on the cover, and serve the rest of the syrup and fruit separately in a sauce boat.