HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 497 pound the cheese with the above proportion of butter, or rather more if the cheese is very dry. Sometimes salad oil is used instead of butter. Then season to taste and rather highly, and pound until a smooth paste is formed. Pack this into small pots, and run some liquid clarified butter over the top to preserve it. Potted cheese will keep good for weeks, and will be found very useful for making sandwiches and savouries of different kinds. 2275. Cold Cheese Souffles (Petits Souffles au Fromage) 1 oz. grated Parmesan. 1 oz. grated Gruyere or Cheddar. 1 gill double cream. 1 white of egg. \ gill aspic jelly. Seasoning. Toasted nuts. Beforo beginning to make the mixture prepare five or six small souffle cases by pinning a band of white paper round the outside of them, as directed on p. 486. Whip the cream until thick, and add to it the two kinds of cheese finely grated. Have the aspic in a liquid condition, add to it the white of egg, and whip the two together until white and frothy, but still somewhat liquid. Add this to the cheese and cream, and season to taste. Fill up the souffle cases with this mixture, and place them in a cool place until set. Then remove the bands of paper, and sprinkle the tops with toasted and finely-chopped nuts, and, if liked, a light sprinkling of coraline pepper. 2276. Swiss Cheese Savoury (Biscuits & la Suisse) \ cream cheese (petit Suisse). 1 or 2 table-sps. whipped cream. Cayenne and salt. Small Parmesan biscuits. Watercress. Sieved yolk of egg. Take the remains of a Swiss cream cheese, break them down with a silver fork, and then mix with about an equal quantity of thick whipped cream. Season highly with cayenne and salt to taste. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a rose pipe and force out a nice little heap on small round Parmesan biscuits, or little biscuits made out of cheese pastry. Decorate round the edge of the biscuits with leaves of watercress, and sprinkle a little sieved yolk of egg in the centre. 2277. Darioles de Crabe en Aspic Cooked crab. Mayonnaise sauce. Chopped capers. Aspic jelly. Small cress. Tomato. Line some small dariole moulds with aspic jelly (see p. 433) and decorate them at the bottom with a small piece of tomato and a little small cress. Then cut some crab meat into small pieces and mix it with thick mayonnaise sauce, add a few chopped capers and, if liked, a little chopped gherkin as well. Season to taste and nearly fill the lined darioles with this mixture, being careful to shake it well down into the moulds. Cover with some more aspic which is just setting, and put them in a cool place until firm. When ready, turn out the darioles and serve them in small paper cases with a little salad or chopped aspic round. Note.—Lobster may be prepared in the same way. 2278. Cucumber Cups with Mayonnaise A large cucumber. Mayonnaise sauce. Cooked chicken, salmon A few radishes or olives. or lobster. Choose a large, straight cucumber, one that is very firm. Peel it and then cut it in about 2-inch lengths. Boil or steam these pieces until tender without being soft and pulpy, and drain them well. Scoop out the centres and round off the edges, in order to form little cups, and set them in a cool place until wanted. Now take some cold minced chicken, or some cooked salmon or lobster, and mix it with mayonnaise sauce. Fill up the cucumber cups with this mixture and place a pretty radish or a stoned olive on the top. Serve the cucumber cups on small individual dishes, or on small lettuce leaves on a salad dish. 2279. Timbales of Finnan Haddock (Timbales de Merluche Fume) | lb. cooked smoked haddock. 1 gill white sauce. 1 gill double cream. \ oz. gelatine. Seasoning. A little aspic jelly. Decorations. Take from 8 to 10 small timbale or dariole moulds, and decorate them at the bottom with a little aspic jelly and hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, cress, or lobster coral, &e. Allow this decoration to set whilst preparing the mixture. To Make the Mixture.—Chop the fish very finely, being very particular to remove any small bones. Add to it a gill of good white sauce and the gelatine dissolved in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls milk or water. Season with cayenne, lemon juice, and salt if neces- sary, and add the cream whipped until stiff. When the mixture is beginning to set, fill up the small moulds and place them in a cool place, or on ice, until firm. When required, turn out and serve garnished with small cress or a little chopped aspic jelly. 2280. Canapes of Game (Canapes de Gibier) Potted game. I Whipped cream. Small biscuits. I Chopped pickles. Take some small biscuits or little rounds of brown bread and butter, and spread them rather thickly with potted game. Whip some double cream until thick, season it with cayenne and salt and, if liked, a little anchovy essence or Worcester sauce. Put this into a paper cornet with a rose pipe, and force out a little on each biscuit, decorate wdth chopped pickles or with small strips of red chilli or green gherkin. 2281. Game Balls Small oatcakes or Small biscuits. Potted game. Butter. Small cress. Seasoning. Hard-boiled yolk of egg. Make some small round oatcakes (Recipe 2722), or take small plain biscuits, and butter as many 2 i