568 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD To Fill the Shells.—First scoop out the centres; fill the hollow with any of the following mixtures : 1. Any good well-flavoured jam that is not too liquid. 2. Whipped double cream, sweetened and flav- oured, to which small pieces of fruit or a puree of fruit may be added if wished. 3. Thick custard sweetened and flavoured. 4. A soft almond paste, flavoured and coloured pale pink or pale greem. Any mixture that is liked may be used as long as it is nicely flavoured and sweetened, and not too liquid. After filling the shells put two pieces of the same size and shape together, and place them on a draining tray ready for icing. To Ice the Calces.—Either gla?6 or fondant icing (see Icings, p. 589) will do. Colour the icing ac- cording to taste, such as yellow, very pale green, pink, chocolate, &c., according to the fruit or form you wish to represent, and add suitable flavourings. A little blue will be an improvement to the white icing ; and for fruits, such as pears and apricots, add just a suspicion of green. Dip the cakes right into the icing and lift out to drain. Then dry in the oven for a few minutes to give a gloss. The pale-coloured cakes should look just like marble. To Decorate the Cakes.—This is very much a matter of taste, and the variety is endless, as for instance : Chocolate Iced Cakes.—Pipe, with a paper cornet, tiny loops of chocolate icing, dust over with green sugar, blow oil the loose sugar, and put a silver ball in the centre. To Imitate Fr uits.—Coat the cakes with the palest green icing. Mix up some slightly darker green icing on a plate with a little water, and touch up the fruit very lightly with this, using a brush, and then in the same way with pink to imitate the colours of the fruit. Little drops of pink may also be splashed on with a brush. Put a green arti- ficial leaf at the end of the fruit, and a piece of wore for the stalk. Coat over the wire with chocolate icing, put through a forcing bag, and mark the heart at the other end with the same. Probable cost, 1 \d. each cake. 2712. Princess Cakes Grated rind of \ lemon. A few drops of vanilla essence. 2 small eggs. Decoration.—Glace icing flavoured with maras- chino, crystallised violets, and rose leaves. 1J oz. butter. l| oz. castor sugar. oz. rice flour. 4 oz. cocoanut. Cream the butter and work in the sugar. Add half the rice flofir, flavouring, cocoanut, and one egg, and mix well. Then the remainder of the rice flour, and the second egg, and mix again. Beat all together for about 10 minutes. Have ready ten or twelve small fancy-shaped tins, grease them with clarified butter, and coat them with fine cake or ratafia crumbs. Half fill these tins with the above mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Turn the cakes out of the tins, and when cold, ice them with glace icing flavoured with a few drops of maraschino, and decorate them with violets and rose leaves. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2713. Queen Cakes, 1 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 eggs. h tea-sp. baking powder. A little grated lemon rind. A few currants. Prepare nine or ten small tins (see p. 550), and place a few clean currants at the bottom of each. Cream the butter, add the sugar, salt, and grated lemon rind and mix well. Sieve the flour, and add half of it to the mixture with one of the eggs. Mix Queen Cake Tins slowly, and then beat well for a few minutes. Add the second egg and the remainder of the flour, and beat again. Sprinkle in the baking powder at the last, and half fill the prepared tins with the mixture. Bake the cakes in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2714. Queen Cakes, 2 J lb. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 eggs. 3 oz. glace cherries. 1 or 2 table-sps. water. 5 oz. flour. \ tea-sp. baking powder. Cream the butter (see p. 552), add the sugar, and mix well. Then add the yolks of the eggs and beat a few minutes longer. Whip the whites of the eggs to a still froth, and sieve the flour with the baking powder. Add these two alternately to the other mixture, mixing them in gradually and very lightly. Stir in the cherries, cut in small pieces, and the water last of all. Half fill small prepared tins and bake the cakes in a moderate oven. When ready, turn them on to a sieve to cool. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2715. Raspberry Buns £ lb. flour | lb. rice flour or ground rice. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter or lard. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. A little milk. Raspberry jam. Rub the butter or lard into the flour, and add the sugar and baking powder. Make a well in the centre, and add the egg well beaten and enough milk to form a stiffish dough. Divide this into nine or ten pieces, and roll each piece into a ball, using a