293 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 1193. Rabbit with Rice (Lapin au Riz) 1 tender rabbit. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 cupful rice. 1 cupful tomato puree. 1 pt. light stock. Seasoning. Rolls of bacon. Wash and clean the rabbit (see p. 291) and cut it in neat joints, or if preferred cut the flesh in small pieces away from the bones. Melt the drip- ping or butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and the rice well washed and dried, and cook them a few minutes without browning. Then put in the rabbit and cook a few minutes longer, stir- ring constantly. Add the stock and the tomato puree (made by rubbing fresh or tinned tomato through a fine sieve). Season to taste, cover closely, and simmer slowly in the oven or on the side of the stove, until the rice and rabbit are tender and nearly dry. The Saucepan should be shaken occasionally to prevent the contents stick- ing. When ready, serve neatly and garnish with small rolls of bacon. Note.—This dish may be cooked and served in an earthenware casserole. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s. 1194. Fried or Grilled Rabbit 1 rabbit. 1 pt. stock. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Butter. Tartare sauce. Clean the rabbit, cut it in joints and blanch the pieces. Then put them into a saucepan with enough stock to cover them and any necessary seasoning, and stew them slowly until almost tender. Drain and dry the pieces, allow them to cool and coat them with a little flour. Now egg and bread- crumb them, and either fry them in a small quantity of butter in a frying pan until they are well browned on all sides, or dip the pieces in melted butter (after egging and bread-crumbing), and grill them over a good fire. Dish neatly and serve tartare sauce (Recipe 759) separately. Note.—The remains of cold cooked rabbit may be used up in this way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10 d. 1195. Curried Rabbit (Lapereau Saut6 & l’lndienne) 1 young rabbit. 2 oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 2 or 3 sticks of celery. Salt. Pepper. 1 bay-leaf. A sprig of parsley and thyme. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 3 gills light stock. Boiled rice. Remove all the flesh from the rabbit and cut it in small neat pieces. If the strong flavour is ob- jected to, blanch these before cooking. Dry the pieces well and season them with pepper and salt. Then melt the butter in a saucepan and, when smoking hot, put in the rabbit and brown the pieces lightly on all sides. Add the minced onion and celery cleaned and cut in shreds. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly for 20 minutes. Now mix in the flour and curry powder, add the parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, and moisten with the stock. Cover again and cook slowly for J hour longer, and in the oven if possible. When the rabbit is tender, lift out the pieces on to a hot dish and keep them warm. Sieve the sauce, re-heat it and pour it over the rabbit. Serve boiled rice (Recipe 1586) separately. Note.—More condiments and spices may be added to the sauce if wished, and cocoanut milk (see Index) may be used instead of the stock. The rabbit may be cut in joints if liked, but it is always preferable to have a curry without bones, to enable its being eaten with a fork and spoon. Time to cook, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 1196. Fricassee of Rabbit (Garenne Saut6 en Gibelotte) 1 wild rabbit. 1 £ doz. white onions. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 gill stock. 1 glass red wine. A few potatoes. Prepare the rabbit as directed on p. 291, and cut it in small neat joints. Cut the fat bacon in strips and peel some small white onions. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the bacon and onions and cook them a few minutes over the fire until they are lightly browned. Then lift them out, put in the joints of rabbit and fry them for a few minutes in the same fat. Sprinkle in the flour and brown that also. When ready, add the wine and 1 gill or rather more of stock, so that the rabbit is nearly covered. Add seasoning to taste, and the onions and bacon. Put the lid on the pan and cook the fricassee in the oven or on the top of the fire until the rabbit is tender. About 15 minutes before serving, add about 15 pieces of potato which have been trimmed neatly in the shape of new potatoes and parboiled. Or, new potatoes may be used when in season. Cook all together for the last £ hour. Time to stew, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. 1197. Rabbit with Mushrooms, 1 (Lapin aux Champignons) 1 young rabbit. 2 oz. butter. 6 to 8 oz. fresh mush- omon. 1 cupful thin cream. A bunch of herbs. Pepper. Salt. rooms. 2 table - sps. chopped Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the mushrooms carefully prepared (see Recipe 513), and stir them over the fire until brown. Then lift them out and heat the remainder of the butter in the saucepan. Now put in the rabbit cut in small and neat pieces, brown it slightly and add the onion, pepper, and salt. Put the lid on the pan and cook from 10 to 15 minutes. Moisten with the cream slightly warmed, add the bunch of herbs and cook again for \ hour or until the rabbit is tender. About 10 minutes before the rabbit is ready, return the mushrooms to the saucepan and let all simmer together for the remainder of the time. Arrange the rabbit and mushrooms on a hot dish, strain the sauce and pour it over. Time to cook, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. lOrf.