494 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD them into round balls, and dry and flour them lightly. Next egg and bread-crumb these balls of butter twice very carefully, pressing on the crumbs each time. Flatten them slightly with a knife and, with a cutter a size smaller, mark the centre of the cases. Put them in a frying basket, and fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. With a small sharp knife lift off the centre piece and let the melted butter run into a basin. Turn the cases upside down, and allow them to drain for a few minutes. The butter that is run out may be used for making sauces. These little cases may be filled with various savoury mixtures, and make a very dainty-looking dish. They may also be made larger and used for entrees. 2253. Devilled Biscuits These can be prepared in different ways, and they may either be used as an accompaniment to savouries, or different savouries may be served on the top of them. Use a plain biscuit, such as milk, water, toast, Bath oliver, &c., butter them, sprinkle them with black pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and toast them in the oven until brown and crisp. If liked still hotter, the butter with which the biscuits are spread may be mixed with a little mustard or curry powder. Or, melt a small quantity of butter in a frying pan and fry the biscuits on both sides, then season them to taste. Or, again, the biscuits may be spread with devil paste (Recipe 763), and then grilled until as hot as possible. 2254. Anchovy Pastry 3 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. i tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 yolk of egg. A little water. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Rub the butter into the flour, add the anchovy essence and 1 or 2 drops of carmine, and bind to- gether with a small yolk of egg and a little cold water. Knead until the paste is smooth and of a uniform colour, then roll out and cut in shapes as required. Note.—This pastry is useful in savoury-making, for lining small moulds, and making biscuits or croutons of different shapes. 2257. To Prepare Sardines for Savouries Sardines, like anchovies, should have the preserv- ing oil well drained from them, and then be dipped in hot water, and the skins rubbed off in a cloth. They can be filleted in the same way as anchovies. 2258. To Stone or “ Turn ” an Olive Choose large olives by preference, and they must be very fresh. Cut a small piece off the stalk end of each to enable 'them to stand easily, then with a penknife or small sharp-pointed knife, peel or “turn” them so as to remove the stone. Com- mence at the thick end and, keeping the knife close to the stone, peel round and round as you would an apple, making about three turns in all. The stone should be removed as clean as possible and the olive itself be left in one spiral coil, which can easily be put back into its original form, and will be ready for filling in various ways. Some- times the stones are stamped out with a small cutter. Olives can be bought ready “ turned ” and stuffed (olives farcies) with pimentos, capers, anchovies, truffles, &c., but this is an expensive form in which to buy them. PART I HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SMALL COLD SAVOURIES 2259. Salted Almonds (Amandes Salees) 2255. Cheese Pastry For making little croustades, biscuits, &c., for various savouries. I lb. fine flour. 1 oz. butter. Pinch of cayenne. 2 tab.-sps. grated Par- mesan. Yolk of egg. Cold water. Mix the flour, Parmesan, and cayenne in a basin. Rub in the butter, and bind into a paste with a little yolk of egg mixed with water. Knead slightly, then roll out once, and use as required. 2256. To Prepare Anchovies Salted anchovies should be soaked for some time before being used. The others should be dipped in hot water or have hot water poured over them to free them from the preserving oil, then wiped in a cloth to remove the skins. To Fillet.—Cut off heads and tails, split the fish open with the forefinger and thumb, draw out the bone, and cut in two fillets, or smaller pieces as required. £ lb. almonds. I clarified butter. ^ tab.-sp. salad oil or | Fine salt. Blanch and dry the. almonds. Put them on a delicately clean baking tin with \ table-spoonful of the best salad oil, or clarified or fresh butter melted. Place them in a moderately hot oven, and turn them over and over frequently until they are a light brown on all sides. Then turn them on to a sheet of kitchen paper and sprinkle them liberally with fine salt. When cold, shake off the loose salt, and the almonds are ready to serve; or they may be kept in a glass jar until wanted. Notes.—Walnuts, filberts, and pea-nuts may be salted in the same way; or a mixture of nuts is good. Salted nuts may be served at luncheon or dinner; they are placed in small dishes and eaten at intervals throughout the meal. 2260. Devilled Almonds Prepare in the same way as above, using cayenne pepper in addition to the salt. Devilled almonds should be served hot.