COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 150 Note.—White stock may be used instead of milk, and the yolk of an egg instead of the cream. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Lettuces (Laitues) There are two different kinds of lettuce, the cabbage lettuce (Fr. laitue) and the Cos lettuce (Fr. romaine). The former has short round leaves, which spread out in the form of an open cabbage, and it is this kind which is most often sold in winter. The Cos lettuce, supposed to take its name from the island of Cos, is upright in form and Cos Lettuce Cabbage Lettuce the leaves are generally tied together to blanch them and make more heart. This kind is in season in summer. The lettuce is the best and most popular of salad vegetables, and it is generally eaten raw. It contains little nutriment, but it is wholesome and refreshing and valuable for its mineral salts. It is also slightly sedative in character, especially when it comes to the flowering stage. Lettuce cooked as a green vegetable is also exceedingly good, and when too old to use as a salad it can very well be utilised in this way. 506. Braised Lettuces, 1 (Laitues Braisees) 2 or 3 lettuces. 1 carrot. 1 onion. Salt, pepper. Grated nutmeg. Scraps of fat bacon. A little stock. A small bunch of herbs. Trim away any discoloured leaves from the lettuces and a small piece of the stalk, but not too much, as the leaves must be held together. Wash them in cold water, then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted and allow them to boil 5 or 6 minutes, or rather longer if the lettuces are no longer tender, in order to soften them a little. Then lift them out, plunge them into cold water and wash them again. Press out the water, cut the lettuces into two lengthwise and season the pieces with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg. Cut the carrot and turnip in thin slices and put them into a saucepan with a few scraps of fat bacon. Lay the lettuces on the top, folding in the ends of the leaves, and place the pan over the fire until the contents begin to brown. Then add a little good gravy or stock, rather fat, cover with greased paper and cook in the oven until the lettuces are tender. Note.—If used as a garnish the lettuces may be cut in smaller pieces. Time to cook, £ to | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 507. Braised Lettuces, 2 (Romaines Braisees) 2 or 3 Cos lettuces. i A small piece of butter. Stock. 1 yolk of egg. | Seasoning. Choose young and tender lettuces of medium size. Wash them carefully, cutting off the root and any withered or discoloured leaves. Tie each one round with a piece of string or tape and lay them when ready in a greased baking dish. Pour round enough stock to well cover the bottom of the dish, cover with a lid and cook in a moderate oven until the lettuces are tender. Then arrange them neatly on a hot dish, removing the tape or string. Add the yolk of egg and butter to the stock left in the baking dish and more seasoning if necessary. Cook this sauce a minute without letting it boil and pour it round the lettuces. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 508. Stewed Lettuces (Laitues au Jus) 1 or 2 lettuces. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill milk or stock. Salt. Pepper. Croutons of pastry or fried bread. Wash the lettuces carefully, drain them and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted. Allow them to boil for 5 minutes, then lift out and drain. Now chop or shred the lettuces and put them into a stewpan with a little butter or bacon fat and the milk or stock. Put the lid on the pan and cook slowly by the side of the fire, stirring occasionally until the vegetable is tender. Then sprinkle in the flour, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and cook a few minutes longer. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last would be an improve- ment. Serve the lettuce on a hot dish and garnish with croutons of pastry or fried bread. Notes.—A little chopped onion may be cooked with the lettuce, if wished, and a little chopped mint may be added. Poached eggs or plovers’ eggs may be served on the top if a more sub- stantial dish is desired. Time to stew, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 509. Stuffed Lettuces (Laitues Farcies) 2 lettuces. A little stock. 1 table-sp. dripping or bacon fat. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. Stuffing. J lb. cooked meat. 1 egg. 2 oz. bread. Seasoning. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Choose nice fresh lettuces with a good heart. Remove any coarse leaves from the outside and the hard part of the stalk. Then wash them well and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water. Allow them to boil quickly about 10 minutes, then drain, rinse with cold water and dry in a cloth. To Prepare the Stuffing.—Chop the meat finely and mix it with the bread soaked in the milk. Season well with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg and