COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 372 1597. Risotto with Tomatoes (Risotto it la Pldmontaise) 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-cupful rice. 3 tea-cupfuls stock. 3 table-sps. grated cheese 3 table-sps. puree of tomato. Seasoning. A small bunch of herbs. Put the chopped onion into a- saucepan with the butter and cook it for a few minutes without allow- ing it to brown. Add the rice and cook a minute or two longer ; this will slightly harden the rice on the outside and prevent it from breaking, without interfering with its swelling. Add stock, tomato pur6e, bunch of herbs, and seasoning, cover with greased paper or the saucepan lid, and cook in the oven. Stir with a fork, and add the grated cheese at the last. Remove the bunch of herbs before serving. A pinch of saffron may be added. Time to cook, about 25 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1598. Savoury Baked Rice 3 oz. rice. 1 gill of water. \ pt. of milk. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 eggs. Pepper and salt. A little made mustard. 1 table-sp. browed bread-crumbs. Wash the rice, and put it into a saucepan with the water and butter; bring it to the boil, and cook for 10 minutes. Then add the milk and seasonings, and simmer slowly until the rice is quite soft, and has absorbed all the milk. Stir occasionally to prevent the mixture burning. When ready, remove the pan from the fire, and add one or two eggs well beaten, and nearly all the cheese. Mix thoroughly, and taste if well seasoned. Mix the remainder of the cheese with the bread-crumbs, coat the inside of a well-greased mould or basin with them, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve immediately. Note.—A little brow or tomato sauce may be poured round. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, 6d. 1599. Savoury Rice Croquettes | lb. rice. | pt. light stock. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. cream or white sauce. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan, cover it with cold water, and allow it to boil 5 minutes. Then drain and rinse with cold water. Return the rice to the saucepan, add the stock and butter, and simmer slowly until the rice is quite tender and the stock absorbed. The rice must be stirred occasionally to prevent its sticking to the saucepan. When ready, add the cheese and white sauce or cream, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Spread the mixture on a flat plate, and set it aside to cool. When cold and firm, divide it into small equal-sized pieces, and make these into rolls with the help of a little flour. Then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249) and fry in boiling fat to a nice brow colour. Drain and serve piled up on a hot dish. Note.—Milk may be used instead of stock, and chopped ham or tongue instead of cheese. Sufficient for 10 to 12 croquettes. Probable cost. Id. 1600. Border of Rice \ lb. rice. 1 pt. white stock. 1 egg- \ oz. butter. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. Wash the rice well in several waters and then put it into a saucepan with the white stock, or, if no stock is available, use milk and water. Add the butter and seasoning, and simmer slowly until the rice is soft and has absorbed all the liquid. Stir occasionally to prevent the rice sticking to the pan. When ready, remove the pan from the fire and add the egg well beaten. Pour the mixture into a well- Border Moulds greased border mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Then lift it from the pan, allow it to stand a few minutes, and turn out on a hot dish. The centre can be filled with a ragout of meat or vegetables, and sauce may be poured round. 1601. Rice Croustades Make the same rice mixture as in last recipe, cooking the rice in the stock until thick and pulpy. Add the beaten egg, and cook again for a minute or two, stirring all the time. Then spread the mixture on a greased plate and let it cool. When firm to the touch, divide it into pieces about the size of a hen’s egg, and roll these into balls, using a little flour. Now egg and bread-crumb these balls, and flatten them slightly to make them stand. Make an incision on the top of each with a small round cutter in order to form a lid, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, remove the little lids, and hollow out the centre with a tea-spoon. These rice croustades or cases may be filled with any savoury mince or ragout, when they will make a nice entree or luncheon dish A little grated cheese may be added to the rice mixture if wished. Croustades of semolina could be made in the same way. 1602. Border of Rice with Green Peas Cooked green peas. I A rice border. Brown or tomato sauce. I Make a rice border as directed above, and have ready a large cupful of cooked green peas, or tinned peas may be used. Make the peas thor- oughly hot in enough brown or tomato sauce to moisten them, turn out the rice border, and serve the peas in the centre and round.