529 INVALID COOKERY press out the juice in a meat-press or strong lemon- squeezer. Note.—A meat-press or juice-extractor can be bought at any of the ironmongery stores, from about 7s. upwards. 2497. Beef-Tea Jelly | pt. beef-tea. £ oz. isinglass. Put the beef-tea and isinglass into the saucepan together, and stir them over the fire until warm. Then stand the pan by the side of the fire until the isinglass is quite dissolved. Pour into a small basin that has been wet out with cold water, and set aside till firm. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 2498. Savoury Beef-Tea £ lb. lean juicy beef. 3 gills cold water. | tea-sp. salt. A small piece of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. A small bunch of herbs. 3 or 4 peppercorns. A small blade of mace. Make the beef-tea as directed in recipes given above. Put into the jar, along with the meat and water, the above vegetable seasonings, and cook as before. The vegetables must be carefully pre- pared and cut in small pieces. Be careful not to have too much of any one, but rather an agree- able blending of flavours. One small tea-cupful of the vegetables cut up and mixed will be quite sufficient. Any flavouring that is objected to may be omitted. 2499. Beef-Tea and Milk The combination of beef-tea and milk constitutes a very strengthening drink for an invalid, and will often be taken when milk alone is found too in- sipid. The proportions can be varied according to taste. 2500. Asparagus Soup | bundle asparagus. | pt. milk. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour or corn- flour. Salt. White pepper. Cook the asparagus as directed in Recipe 148. Cut oS the tender tips, reserve them for serving in the soup, and rub the remainder of the asparagus through a sieve. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, stir in the flour, and mix smoothly. Then pour on the milk, and stir until boiling. Add the sieved asparagus and the points, simmer a few minutes until all is thoroughly blended, and season to taste. Probable cost, 6d. to 9d. 2501. Barley Milk Soup (Stove Barley) 2table-sps. pearl barley. I 2 pts. milk. 2 oz. butter. 1 pt. cold water. | Salt to taste. Wash the barley in several waters, then put it into a double saucepan with the water, milk, and butter, and cook it with plenty of water round it for 3 or 4 horn’s, or until quite soft and creamy. Then add salt to taste and pepper if wished. A large jar placed in a saucepan of boiling water may be used for the cooking if no double cooker is available. Note.—This is an excellent soup for children, and one that is almost a universal favourite. It is also very good for invalids, when the barley may be strained out if considered too heavy. Probable cost. Id. 2502. Celery and Rice Soup lpt. light stock or broth. 2 or 3 sticks white celery. £ oz. butter. | cup milk or 1 or 2 table-sps. cream, ltea-sp.rice. Seasoning. Well wash and brush the celery, and cut it in small pieces. Put it into a saucepan with the stock, a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and the rice well washed. Cook slowly, stirring now and again, until the ingredients are quite soft. Then rub as much as possible through a fine sieve and return to the saucepan to re-heat. Add the milk or cream, and season to taste. Serve with small strips of toast or with a dry rusk. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2503. Chicken Broth 1 a chicken. 2 pts. cold water. Salt. 1 tea-sp. rice, fine bar- ley, or fine tapioca. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Take half a chicken or the inferior parts of one, reserving the white parts for serving separately. Wash the joints thoroughly, cut the meat in small pieces, and break up the bones. Remove any fat or soft grease, but not the skin. Put all into a deep saucepan, add the water, which should be sufficient to cover the meat, &c., and season with salt. Cover with the saucepan lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Then simmer from 4 to 5 hours, removing the scum from time to time and adding more water if necessary. When all the goodness is ex- tracted from the chicken, strain the liquid through a fine strainer and, if possible, stand till cold. Care- fully remove all grease from the top, and return the broth to a saucepan. Bring to the boil, sprinkle in the tapioca, barley, or rice well washed, and simmer until this is cooked. Add the chopped parsley a minute or two before serving. Note.—A richer broth may be made by pouring it slowly on to the beaten yolk of an egg. A more savoury broth may be made by adding a few small pieces of vegetable when making the stock. Or small pieces of cooked chicken may be served in the broth, if a more substantial dish is required. When economy has to be studied, the meat used may be half chicken and half veal; the flavour of the chicken will still predominate. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 6d. 2504. Essence of Chicken 1 chicken, or part of one. Prepare and cut up the chicken in the same way as directed in last recipe. Put the meat, bones, skin, &c., into a large jar without any water, covering the jar with a tight-fitting lid or strong piece of white paper greased. Place the jar in a saucepan, with cold water to come fully half- way up; put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly from 6 to 7 hours. If the water boils down, add more. When cooked sufficiently, remove the jar from the saucepan, and strain all the liquid 2 h