ICES 487 cream put through a forcing bag, and a small piece of preserved or crystallised fruit on the top. 2223. Peches a la Melba Cooked peaches. I Raspberry puree. Vanilla ice cream. | Peel and halve the required number of peaches, and cook them in a syrup of sugar and water flavoured with vanilla until tender, but not broken. Add a few drops of carmine to give the fruit a pinkish tint, and a little liqueur if wished. Lift out the peaches and drain them on a sieve in a very cool place. Prepare also some thick raspberry puree by rubbing fresh raspberries through a hair sieve with enough castor sugar to sweeten, or a good raspberry syrup may be used. Then take some pretty glass goblets and put a good spoonful of vanilla ice cream into each; place a half peach on the top and coat over with the raspberry pur6e. Serve at once. 2224. Peches Glacees au Nid Vanilla ice cream. Spun sugar. A little carmine. Prepare some vanilla ice cream as directed in Recipe 2217, and freeze it, but not too hard. Then take nine or ten small peach moulds, fill the two sides very full with the ice cream, and press them quickly together. Now bury them in powdered ice or salt" for | hour or longer, or put them in the ice cave. Meanwhile prepare some spun sugar- use from | to | lbs. of sugar, and spin a good bunch of it in two colours—in its natural colour and in pink. Roll the two together in a thickish roll, twist round to form a circle, fill up the centre, and thus form a nest. To Serve.—Line the nest with a small lace- edged. paper ; turn out the moulds and pile the little ices in the centre. Then, with a small brush, paint them lightly over with pale carmine to imitate the colour of a peach. Stick a small piece of angelica in each to form the stalk, and serve the ice quickly with a lace-edged paper under it. 2225. Pouding Glace aux Fruits, 1 | lb. preserved fruits. 1 dessert-sp. vanilla essence. 1 table-sp. rum or liqueur. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour or arrowroot. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. 1 gill double cream. 2 whites of eggs. Cook the cornflour or arrowroot thoroughly in the milk, then add the sugar and vanilla, and let the mixture cool. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and beat the cream until thick. Add both these to the thickened milk, mix well, and pour all into a freezing pot. Half freeze the mix- ture, then stir into it the fruits cut in very small pieces and the rum or liqueur. Freeze again and then mould in the usual way. 2226. Pouding Glacd aux Fruits, 2 | pt. double cream. 3 gills custard. I lb. preserved fruits. 1 table-sp. chopped almonds. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pistachio nuts. 1 table-sp. brandy or liqueur. A few drops vanilla. _ Make a good custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, sweeten it, allow it to cool. and then strain it into the freezing pot. Half freeze this custard and add to it the fruits cut in tiny pieces, the chopped almonds, and pistachio nuts. Flavour with vanilla and a little liqueur or brandy, and, lastly, stir in the cream which has been whipped until stiff. Freeze the mixture again until stiff. Decorate an ice pudding mould and pack the mixture into it, pressing it well down so that it takes the form of the mould. Then cover and freeze until wanted. It will require 3 or 4 hours at least. 2227. Iced Orange Pudding (Pouding Glaed d, I’Orange) 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. 3 oranges. 1 table-sp. wine or liqueur. | pt. double cream. 2 table-sps. macaroon crumbs. 1 oz. candied orange peel. First grate the rind very thinly off two of the oranges and rub it into the sugar until the two are thoroughly blended. Then make a custard with the milk, eggs, and this flavoured sugar, let it cool, and add the strained juice of one of the oranges. Peel the remaining two oranges, remove every par- ticle of white skin, and cut the inside juicy part into small pieces, free from seeds. Sprinkle these pieces with sugar, pour over them the wine or liqueur, and let them stand for some time. Now whip the cream and add to it the cold custard; turn the mixture into a freezing pot and half freeze it. Then add the pieces of orange, the candied peel finely chopped, and the macaroon crumbs. Freeze again, and, when sufficiently firm, pack into a pudding mould and bury in ice from 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 8 persons. 2228. Pouding Glacd a la Rose 3 gills milk. 3 gills cream. 1 gill rose water. i lb. castor sugar. | tea-sp. vanilla. A few drops carmine. Put all the ingredients except the carmine into a freezing pot, and freeze until stiff enough to mould —do not make it too hard, or it will not shape nicely. Then colour half the mixture a pretty rose pink, and pack it into a mould in alternate spoonfuls with the white. Freeze for 3 or 4 hours, then, when required, turn out and decorate with sprays of maidenhair fern and some pretty rose petals or small rosebuds. Note.—The mixture may be made less rich by using all milk and adding just a little whipped cream when half frozen. Sufficient for 8 persons. 2229. Pouding en Surprise, 1 A cabinet pudding. I Apricot or chocolate Some cream ice. I sauce. Make a good cabinet pudding as directed in Recipe 1747, using double quantities of the in- gredients. Steam it carefully in a plain charlotte or souffle mould, and, when firm to the touch, lift it from the steamer and allow it to stand a few minutes. Then turn it out, with a very sharp knife cut a slice about | inch in thickness off the top, reserving this carefully without breaking.