VEGETABLES AND SALADS 147 493. Green Peas with Butter (Petits Pois au Beurre) 1 pt. shelled peas. White pepper and salt. 1 to 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. sugar. A spray of mint. Shell the peas a very short time before they are to be cooked, otherwise they become hard. Wash them in cold water and drain well. Put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with just suffi- cient boiling water to cover them, add the mint, salt, and sugar, and simmer slowly with the lid off the saucepan until the peas are nearly tender and the water almost evaporated. Add the butter, sprinkle with pepper, and allow them to finish cooking, shaking the pan occasionally. Lift out the mint and serve the peas very hot. A little chopped parsley may be added. Notes.—Only young peas can be cooked in this way, when they are older more water must be used and strained off before adding the butter. One or two small onions may be cooked along with the peas and lifted out before serving. It is a good plan to make a broth of the pea-pods in which to cook the peas. Wash the pods, cut them in shreds, put them into a saucepan with warm water to cover, a sprig of mint, a small piece of onion and salt, boil for hour and strain. Use this broth instead of water for cooking the peas. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 494. Green Peas with Lettuces (Petits Pois aux Laitues) 1 pt. shelled peas. | White pepper and salt. 1 or 2 young lettuces. ' J tea-sp. sugar. 2 or 3 spring onions. I oz. butter. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. 1 | oz. flour. Prepare the peas as above and put them into a saucepan with the lettuce cut in shreds, the onions, seasoning and 1 oz. butter. Pom; on enough boil- ing water to barely cover the contents of the saucepan and cook slowly until the peas are tender. Then lift out the onions and parsley. Mix the flour smoothly with the | oz. of butter and add them to the peas, stir and cook for a few minutes and serve as hot as possible. Note.—The yolk of an egg beaten with a table- spoonful of cream may be added instead of the butter and flour, allowing them to cook for a minute or two without boiling. A little chopped parsley may also be added at the last. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 495. Green Peas, To Steam 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 pt. shelled peas. 1 oz. butter, i tea-sp. salt. A spray of mint. 2 table-sps. water. Shell the peas, wash them, put them in a jar vith a tight-fitting lid, adding to them the other ingredients. Cover the jar and place it in a sauce- pan with boiling water to come half-way up the sides. Put on the lid and let the water boil quickly until the peas are tender, adding more water if required. The time required for cooking will depend on the age of the peas. When they are ready, remove the spray of mint, turn the peas into a hot vegetable dish and serve them at once. This is a good way of cooking peas which are no longer young. Note.—1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, or good white sauce may be added to the peas before removing them from the jar. A small onion and a few young lettuce-leaves may be cooked with the peas instead of the mint. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 496. Green Peas with Bacon .1 pt. shelled peas. 3 oz. bacon. Seasoning. Boil or steam the peas as directed above, omitting any butter and mint. Cut the bacon into dice and fry it in a frying pan until brown and crisp. When the peas are ready, add the bacon to them, stir it in quickly and serve at once. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 497. Green Peas with Carrots (Petits Pois aux Carottes) £ pt. shelled peas. | pt. young carrots. | pt. light stock or water. 1 or 2 oz. butter. Pepper, salt. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 2 table-sps. milk or cream. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare the carrots, cut them in thin slices or shreds and then measure £ pint. Put them into a saucepan with the stock or water, butter and seasoning, and allow them to cook slowly for about 15 minutes. Then add the peas and cook again until both the carrots and peas are tender. Beat up the yolk of egg with the milk or cream, stir them in and cook a minute or two longer, but do not boil again. Add the chopped parsley at the last. Serve at once in a hot dish. Note.—If the vegetables become too dry whilst cooking, add more stock or water. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 498. Green Peas with Curried Rice I pt. shelled peas. Seasoning. A spray of mint. Curried rice. 1 or 2 oz. butter. First prepare the curried rice as in Recipe 1586, and while it is cooking boil the peas with a spray of mint. When tender, drain them well, and then return them to the saucepan with the butter Green Peas with Curried Rice and seasoning. Toss the peas over the fire for a few minutes, then serve them piled up on a hot dish with the curried rice arranged in a border round. Time to cook, \ to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons.