INVALID COOKERY 537 poured round it. Hard dry toast or thin bread and butter separately. Note.—Be careful to use the best butter. Time to steam, | to 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. to Is. 4d. 2544. Chicken Cream J lb. breast of chicken. £ gill cream. Seasoning. Use uncooked chicken for this, and have it as tender as possible. Weigh it free from skin and bone, shred it finely with a knife, then pound it well in a mortar, and rub it through a wire sieve. Season to taste and mix it with the cream lightly whipped. Put the mixture into a well-greased cup or small basin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully, and garnish with a sprig of parsley and a few sippets of toast. Note.—A veal cream may be made in the same way. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 4d. 2545. Chicken Custard Make in the same way as Fish Custard (Recipe 2525), adding 1 large table-spoonful raw pounded and sieved chicken to the custard instead of the fish. Serve with small fingers of buttered toast or with a little good gravy poured round. 2546. Chicken Mince J lb. uncooked chicken. | oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 gill milk or stock. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Sippets of toast. Choose the most tender part of the chicken, the breast if possible, and weigh it free from skin and bone. Shred it down finely or cut it in tiny dice. Melt the butter in a saucepan or earthenware casserole, put in the prepared chicken, and cook it a few minutes over the fire without allowing it to brown. Mix in the flour, and then add the stock or milk gradually. Season to taste, cover the sauce- pan, and allow the contents to simmer slowly until tender. Then remove it from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve at once garnished with small sippets of toast, or with boiled rice. Note.—Minced game may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, | to § hour. Probable cost, Is. 2547. Chicken or Veal Panada J lb. breast of chicken, 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. or | lb. fillet of veal. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. cold water. Wipe the meat, and cut it into small pieces free from fat and skin. Put it into a cup or small basin, with a pinch of salt and the cold water. Tie over it a piece of greased white paper, and steam slowly from 1 to 1£ hours. Then lift out, and put the con- tents of the basin into a mortar; pound well, and rub through a fine wire sieve. Put the sieved mixture into a saucepan, add the cream, and heat through. This may be served on a piece of toast, or even cold. If considered too rich, use a little more water in the cooking, and omit the cream. Time to cook, 1 to 1£ hours. Probable cost— veal, 6d.; chicken. Is. to Is. 6d. 2548. Steamed Chop 1 mutton chop. A pich of salt. A little butter. Wipe the chop with a damp cloth. Trim off most of the fat, and make it as neat in shape as possible. Grease a plate with a little butter, place it over a pan half full of boiling water, and put the chop on it. Sprinkle it with a little salt, cover with a piece of greased paper, and then with a basin or saucepan hd. Keep the water underneath fast boiling, that there may be sufficient steam, and, if it boils away too much, add more. Cook from 15 to 20 minutes, then turn the chop, and cook about the same length of time on the other side. Serve at once, along with any juice that has run from it. Note.—This is one of the most digestible ways of cooking a chop for an invalid. It is more deli- cate in flavour than one broiled or fried. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2549. Mutton Chop in Paper Choose a loin chop, trim it neatly, and season with salt. Grease one of the special cookery bags sold for the purpose, place the chop in it and seal up securely. Or, grease a heart-shaped piece of white paper, lay the chop on one half of it, fold Mutton Chop in Paper over and twist the two edges together. Put it on a grid shelf or little wire stand in a hot oven and cook about 15 minutes. When ready, open the bag or paper, and place the chop on a hot plate. This is one of the best ways of cooking a chop for an invalid. A piece of steak may be cooked in the same way. 2550. Mutton Chop in Paste 1 mutton chop. I Paste—2 table-sps. flour, A pinch of salt. | a little cold water. Wipe the chop with a damp cloth. Trim it neatly, removing most of the fat, and sprinkle with a little salt. Make a stiff paste with the flour and water. Slightly flour a baking board, turn this paste on to it, and roll with a floured rolling-pin until thin. Place the chop in the centre, and fold it up in the paste, sealing the joins of the paste with a little water. Bake in a moderate oven, about | hour. To serve it, remove the crust; lift out the chop on