610 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD flavoured with raspberry, another green and flav- oured with maraschino, and the third left its natural colour and flavoured with lemon. Then roll out each piece to a similar shape and \ of an inch in thickness. Brush over one piece very lightly with cold water, and lay a second piece on the top, then brush over again with water, using very little, and lay on the third piece of almond paste. Now press the slices together with a rolling-pin, moisten the marzipan with a little sugar syrup or white of egg, and press a sheet of wafer paper on to both sides. (This latter may be omitted if not convenient.) Set the block aside until dry and firm, then trim the edges, and cut in fancy shapes. A more decorative sweet may be made by coating the topmost layer with a little glace icing (see Recipe 2838), and sprink- ling it with chopped pistachio nuts before cutting out. A larger variety of colours may be made if wished, and if the block of paste is rather thick, cut it in slices first, and then across again into small pieces. 2935. Marzipan Slices, 2 Take some marzipan and divide it into three portions, but not of equal size. Take a small piece, flavour it with essence of vanilla, and leave it its natural colour. Take a second piece, double the size of the first, flavour it with rose or straw- berry, and colour it a pretty pink; then a third piece, double the size of the second, colour it green, and flavour with essence of almonds or some liqueur. Now take the smallest piece, and roll it out with the hands until it is like a thin lead pencil. Next roll out the pink portion with a rolling-pin until it forms a strip as long as the natural-coloured roll and about 2 inches in width. Lay the pencil- shaped roll in the centre of this, and fold the pink paste round it, cutting off any that may be super- fluous. Roll on the board with the hands until the join is scarcely seen. Now roll out the green portion of marzipan, and wrap it round the pink roll in the same way. Make the roll as smooth and even as possible—if very long cut it in two— and place it on a tray lined with paper to dry. Then brush over with melted chocolate, coating syrup, or thin glace icing, and roll in chopped pistachio nuts, cocoanut, coloured sugar, or chopped and coloured almonds, and dry again. Cut in pieces as fancy dictates. 2936. Marzipan Pearpods For these a pea-pod mould and some greeh marzipan are required. Take a small piece of green marzipan, sufficient to fill one half of the mould, roll it into an oblong shape, and press it into the mould. Then fill the other half in the same way. Now make some tiny round peas with marzipan of a paler shade of green than that used for the pods, and lay four or six of these on the side of one of the half moulds, and in such a way that they will show over the edge when the Eea is completed. Press the two halves of the mould ghtly together, then lift the upper one off, and the completed pea-pod, with the little peas showing, should come away quite easily. If the two halves do not adhere together, it shows that the moulds have not been sufficiently filled. Continue to make other pea-pods in the same way. 2937. Marzipan Almonds For these an almond-shaped mould, some brown marzipan, and a few sweet almonds are required. Colour the marzipan to a pale brown colour with coffee essence and a little brown colouring, or with some melted chocolate. Roll the almond paste into small oblong-shaped pieces, sufficiently large to fill the half moulds. Press one piece into each half, lay a blanched and toasted almond on the top of one half, and press the other lightly on the top. Then open, and the completed almond should drop out. 2938. Marzipan Acorns These may be shaped with the hand without the aid of a mould. Make some almond paste or marzi- pan a pretty apple-green colour, and flavour it with a few drops of vanilla or essence of almonds. Form it into acorn-shaped pieces, and lay these on a tin lined with wax paper to dry. Then dip the larger end of the acorns in melted covering chocolate, and set them in a tin of powdered chocolate with the pointed ends uppermost, and just sufficiently deep to cover the wet chocolate. Leave until dry, and insert a small piece of stalk in the end of each. 2939. Brochettes Brochettes. Marzipan. Caramel. Brochettes are little rounds of candied fruit paste of different colours and flavours, threaded on straws. They can be bought in this form at almost any good grocery store. Roll out some marzipan to about £ inch in thickness and cut out little rounds the same size as the brochettes. Unthread the brochettes, and put a round of marzi- pan between two of different colours. Then dip Brochettes them in caramel as directed for Caramel Walnuts ; (see below), and, when cold and set, place them in little paper cases. Or, they may be finished off in a simple way by rolling them in castor sugar. Another method of making up these brochettes ) is to place a little ball of fondant between them instead of the marzipan. When they are all placed together and set, brush over the centre part of fondant with slightly beaten white of egg, and coat it with finely-chopped pistachio nuts or cocoanut, or with the two mixed together. 2940. Caramel Walnuts l lb. shelled walnuts. Almond Paste. % lb. ground almonds. \ lb. castor sugar. J lb. icing sugar. 1 egg or 2 yolks. Colouring and flavour- ing. Caramel. 1 lb. loaf sugar. .1 gill water. Lemon juice Small paper cases. Put the walnuts on a tin, and toast them in the oven for about 10 minutes. Then make some