PREFACE In offering yet another book of Cookery to the public, I feel that I may seem to be doing what has often been adequately done before. This, however, is not the case. As an active teacher and constant student of Cookery both at home and abroad, I have found that even the best books frequently assume in readers a knowledge which they do not in fact possess. The details which are omitted from the instructions are generally simple ; but if a simple precaution be unknown, it is as vital as if it were most complicated. Having encountered many difficulties myself, I can well appreciate and sympathise with the difficulties of others. In giving most complete, clear, and accurate directions as simply as possible, I have done my best to smooth away difficulties for those who have little or no proficiency in the subject, and this book represents the results of many years of hard work. The book is not merely a recipe book. It will be evident, from what has been said, that many trifling but necessary details are included; and guidance is given as to the best ways of economising time and money. My aim is to furnish at the same time a good, and an economical cuisine. While the greater number of the recipes are for simple home dishes, there are also more elaborate ones for other grades of housekeeping, and there are plain, old-fashioned dishes as well as recent and elegant novelties. I think cooks of every standard of proficiency will find the book of value. The young housekeeper, who has her experience to gain, will by its use gain her experience at the expense of a minimum of failure, with little or no waste of good material, and with a minimum expenditure of nerve force. The book should also appeal to the skilled cook who wishes to learn new dishes, or to improve those she already knows. Even the novice, provided she brings an average amount of intelligence and care to bear upon her work, should be able to achieve a fair degree of success by following the instructions given.