COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 254 yolks of eggs, one at a time, beating them well in. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish or pie dish, leaving room for it to rise and bake in a good oven until well- risen and firm to the touch. Time to cook, 20 or 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1034. Meat Surprises J lb. cooked meat. 3 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 gill stock. Seasoning. 1 yolk of egg. Chopped parsley- 4 or 5 fresh eggs. Put the bread-crumbs into a small saucepan with the stock and simmer them over the fire a few minutes until they swell and absorb the stock. Then add the meat, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Mix well together and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Grease very care- fully four or five dariole moulds or tea-cups and sprinkle a little chopped parsley at the bottom of each. Now line them with the meat mixture, leaving a hollow in the centre. Into each of these hollows drop a new-laid egg, keeping back a little of the white, if the egg seems too large. Place the moulds in a deepish tin, cover them with greased paper, and pour some boiling water round. Cook in the oven until the eggs are set, then turn out carefully and pour a little brown sauce or good gravy round. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1035. Dresden Patties 6 bread cases. j Bread-crumbs. Milk or beaten egg. I Cold meat mince. To Make the Bread Gases.—Cut some rather stale bread into slices about 3 inches thick. Stamp this out into rounds 2 or 2\ inches in diameter, then, with a smaller cutter, mark the centre about three parts of the way through. Keep a little lid for the top, and scoop out the soft centre. Brush over these cases and the lids with a little milk or beaten egg, and then bread-crumb them with bread- crumbs made out of the scraps. Fry them in Dresden Patties boiling fat until a nice brown colour, and then drain them well, placing the hollow side downwards, that the fat may run out. To Finish and Serve.—Prepare the same meat mixture as for cold meat mince (Recipe 1011) and make it thoroughly hot. Fill the bread cases with this mixture, piling it rather high, and put a little round of fried bread on the top to make it look like a lid. Or, decorate with chopped hard- boiled egg and parsley. Serve very hot. Kromeskies Kromeskies are made of a rich mince of chicken, game, fish, &c., formed into small cork-shaped rolls, wrapped in thin bacon, pig’s caul, or a thin pancake, then dipped in batter and fried in boiling fat. Sauce may be served separately if desired. Below is given an example of how they are made, but any of the mixtures used for cutlets of cold meat, or croquettes of cold meat, may be used. It is a tasty method of utilising remains of nicely cooked meat, &c., and a favourite entree is the result. 1036. Kromeskies of Cold Meat 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill stock. 4 to 6 oz. cooked meat. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutrqeg. Some fat bacon. Frying batter. Any nicely cooked meat may be used, but it is better to have a mixture of salt and fresh meat, such as veal and ham, beef and tongue, chicken and ham, &c. Mince the meat finely and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and stock, and stir over the fire until the mix- ture forms a smooth paste, and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Now add the meat and season to taste. The seasoning will depend some- what upon the kind of meat used. A few chopped mushrooms or oysters may be added. Mix well and turn on to a plate to cool. Then form the mixture into small cork-shaped pieces, using a little dry flour to help with the shaping. Now wrap each piece in a very thin slice of fat bacon, then dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1861) and fry them in boiling fat until a golden brown colour and dry and crisp. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley. Note.—Great care must be taken to cut the bacon very thin or it will not be sufficiently cooked. 1037. Meat and Potato Cones £ lb. cooked meat. | lb. cooked potato. 2 table - sps. melted butter or dripping. A pinch of nutmeg. Grated lemon rind. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. A little sauce or gravy. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Trim the meat and put it once or twice through the mincing machine, or chop it very finely. Sieve the potato and put it into a basin with the meat Meat and Potato Cones and parsley. Add the melted butter or dripping, and season with salt, pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, and a little grated lemon rind. Bind all together with sauce or gravy, or some beaten egg. Form the mixture into cone shapes, using a little flour,