161 VEGETABLES AND SALADS considered the best for the purpose, and they must be perfectly sound. Wash and peel, trimming them to make them even in form, but do not throw them again into cold water. Then cut them lengthwise or with the grain of the potato into even slices about an eighth of an inch in thickness. This requires a little practice, because unless the slices are cut evenly they will not swell properly. Special cutters can be bought for the purpose. Pommes de Terre Soufflees Lay them as they are ready in the folds of a towel and wipe them dry. To Fry.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan of hot fat, not quite boiling, put about a dozen slices of potato into this and fry them until they rise to the surface and are very slightly coloured. Lift them out as they are done with a skimmer, lay them on draining paper, and keep them warm in a cool oven. When all the potato slices have been fried once in this way, heat the fat until it is smoking hot. Throw the potatoes back into it, but only a few at a time, because they must have room to swell, and stir them very gently for a minute or two until they puff out and are a pretty brown colour. Drain again and sprinkle very lightly with salt. To serve, pile them up in a pyramid on a hot dish. Or, sometimes they are served in a nest of potato straws (see Recipe 539), and are known as Pommes de Terre au Nid. 561. Pommes de Terre Anna 1 to 1J lb. potatoes. 2 to 3 oz. butter. Seasoning. Take a round and shallow cake-tin, or a small frying-pan will do, grease it well with melted butter and let this butter set. One or two of the potatoes should be large ; peel them and cut them through the middle with a column-shaped cutter, rather more than an inch in diameter. Then slice these column-shaped pieces very thinly, thus making little rounds about the size of a halfpenny piece. Now line the greased tin with these thin rounds. Commence by putting a round in the centre at the bottom with a circle of pieces round it, one leaning against the other ; then another circle of pieces beyond that, reversing this time the direction in which the pieces are placed. Continue in this way until the bottom of the tin is covered, then line the sides in the same way, always arranging the pieces the one slightly on the top of the other. It is very important to have these slices of potato very thin, otherwise they will not adhere one to the other, and there is also danger of their not being sufficiently cooked. Now slice thinly the remaining potato, or enough to well fill the tin. This time it is not important to have complete rounds—in fact the cuttings from the columns may be utilised, but the potato must be sliced thinly and in sufficient quantity. “ Sautez ” these in a little butter, just to soften them a little, season well with pepper and salt, and fill up the lined tin, pressing the potato well down. Add the remainder of the butter to the saucepan in which the potatoes were sauteed and let it brown over the fire. Pour this over the potato and cook in the oven. If the oven heat is all from the top, it will be better to com- mence the cooking on the top of the stove, so as to brown the potatoes underneath. When cooked, place a plate on the top of the tin and pour off any superfluous butter. (This can be utilised in other ways.) Then unmouid the potato on to a hot dish. It should have the appearance of a nice brown cake. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 562. Pommes de Terre Noisettes Potatoes. Butter. Chopped parsley. Seasoning. Peel one or two large potatoes and cut from them as many small balls as possible, using a special vegetable cutter for the purpose. Throw them into boiling salted water, boil 2 or 3 minutes and drain. Then spread the little potato balls on a cloth and let them remain a few minutes to dry. Melt a small quantity of butter in a frying or saute pan, put in the potatoes and toss them about until they are lightly coloured and cooked through. Season them to taste, sprinkle with finely chopped parsley or fines herbes, and use as a garnish. 563. Pommes de Terre a la Parisienne Potatoes. Butter. Chopped parsley. Seasoning. Prepare and cook in the same way as Pommes de Terre Noisettes (see above), cutting the potatoes the size and shape of an olive with a special cutter and cooking them a minute or two longer in the boiling water. Pumpkin (Potiron) The pumpkin belongs to the same family as the vegetable marrow and melon, and sometimes grows to a great size. It is not so often seen in this country, although it begins to come into our markets. It is generally sold in pieces or by the pound. The pumpkin requires peeling, and all seeds and the pulpy tissue adhering to them should be removed. It may then be made into either sweet or savoury L