533 INVALID COOKERY fillets, or cut them in neat-sized pieces. Place them on a greased plate, cover with greased paper, and place another plate or saucepan lid on the top. Place this on the top of a saucepan of fast boiling water, and cook in this manner until the fish loses its transparent appearance, and looks white and creamy. The water must be kept boiling all the time, and any juice which runs from the fish must be served with it. This is one of the simplest methods of cooking fish for an invalid, and is vastly superior to boiling. If sauce is allowed, this may be made separately, the liquid from the fish added to it, and the fish nicely coated before serving. A sprig of parsley or one or two small pieces of lemon may be used as a garnish. Serve the fish with dry toast or with snowflake potatoes. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2521. Stewed Fish 1 filleted fish—whiting, haddock, sole, or plaice. 1 table - sp. bread- crumbs. \ gill cold water. 1 gill milk. i oz butter. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. White pepper. Salt. Wipe the fish with a damp cloth, and cut it into small, neat pieces. Take a clean lined saucepan, rinse it out with water to prevent the fish sticking to it, and place the pieces of fish at the foot. Sprinkle over them a little salt and white pepper, pour on the milk and water; put the lid on the pan, and let the fish cook slowly by the side of the fire until it is ready, which will be from 10 to 15 minutes. Lift out the pieces of fish on to the plate on which they have to be served, and keep them hot. Add the bread-crumbs and the butter to the water and milk in the pan ; stir over the fire for a few minutes until the bread-crumbs swell and thicken the sauce. Sprinkle in the parsley, finely- chopped, and then pour this sauce over the fish. Wipe the dish round the edges before serving. Note.—This dish is very suitable for cooking and serving in a small fireproof casserole. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2522. Fish Stewed in Milk 1 small filleted sole or plaice. 1 table - sp. bread- crumbs. A pinch of nutmeg. | tea-cupful milk. A small piece of butter. Salt. Wipe the fish with a cloth, season lightly with salt, and make up in little rolls. Put these into a basin with the milk, bread-crumbs, butter, and seasoning. Cover with a saucer or piece of greased paper and steam until tender. Serve on a hot dish and garnish with a sprig of parsley. Time to cook, hour. 2523. Fish Cooked in Paper Any light white fish may be cooked in this way. It is better if it can be filleted. Rip the fish into melted butter and season to taste. Wrap it in paper or place it in one of the special cookery bags now sold for the purpose (see p. 626). One table- spoonful of milk or water may be added. Gose the bag securely and cook on a grid shelf in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Turn the fish on to a hot dish and pour any liquid round it. This is an excellent way of cooking small pieces of fish ; none of the flavour is lost as in boiled fish, it is also more nutritious. 2524. Fish Cream Make in the same way as chicken cream (Recipe 2544), using J lb. uncooked white fish, pounded and sieved, instead of the breast of chicken. 2525. Fish Custard 1 egg. I 1 table-sp. cooked fish. 2 table-sps. milk. | Pepper and salt. Any nicely cooked fish will do for this. Chop it finely, and season with pepper and salt. Beat up the egg with the milk and add the fish to it. Pour all into a well-greased cup or small basin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until set. Turn out when ready, and decorate with a little sprig of parsley. Time to steam, 10 to 15 minutes. 2526. Steamed Fish Pudding 3 oz. uncooked fish. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. 1 egg. It gill milk. Pepper and salt. Weigh the fish free from skin and bone, wipe it with a cloth, and cut it into small neat pieces. Grease a small basin about the size of a breakfast- cup ; put in first a layer of bread-crumbs, then some fish, more bread-crumbs, and so on. Beat up the egg in a small basin with a fork, add the milk and seasoning to it, and strain over the fish and bread- crumbs. Let the pudding stand for a few minutes, then twist a piece of greased paper over the top of it, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. When ready, lift it out of the pan, let it stand for a minute or two, loosen round the edges, and turn out carefully on to a hot plate. Garnish with a small sprig of parsley. Notes.—If preferred, the fish may be chopped 6mall instead of being left in pieces. The pudding may be baked instead of steamed. Time to cook, 15 minutes. 2527. Haddock or Whiting Stuffed and Baked 1 whiting or small had- dock. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. A little chopped parsley. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 yolk of egg. Grated lemon rind. A small piece of butter. Pepper and salt. Clean and skin the fish, and cut off the head. Make a stuffing with the bread-crumbs, parsley, a little grated lemon rind, pepper and salt, and bind together with the yolk of an egg. Fill the opening in the fish with this mixture, and then place it in a fireproof dish. Pour the milk round, cover over, and bake quickly about 15 minutes. Then remove the cover, sprinkle the fish with a few dry bread- crumbs, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and brown lightly. Time 15 to 20 minutes.