444 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD of carmine. Stir occasionally until setting, and then pour into a glass bowl. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1996. Apple Cream (Crgme de Pommes) Make in the same way as Apricot Cream, using a purie of cooked apples instead of the puree of apricots. 1997. Banana Cream (CrSme de Bananes) 5 or 6 bananas. I pt. custard. | oz. gelatine, i gill water, i gill double cream. 1 dessert-sp. brandy or liqueur. Yellow colouring. Sugar. Peel the bananas, cut them in pieces with a silver knife, and rub them through a sieve with a silver spoon. Add this pur6e to £ pint warm custard, and strain in the gelatine dissolved in | gill of water. Sweeten to taste, add the brandy, liqueur, or any other flavouring preferred, and colour with a little yellow colouring. Whip the cream, and stir it in lightly at the last. Pour the cream mixture into a mould that has been deco- rated with a little sweet jelly, thin slices of banana, and a few chopped pistachio nuts ; or the mould may be lined entirely with jelly decorated with sliced bananas, &c. (see p. 433). When cold and set, turn out and serve with chopped jelly round, or with some pretty fern leaves. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. 1998. Banana Whip or Trifle 4 bananas. 3 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. jam. 1 glass sherry. 1 pt. custard. 2 or 3 macaroons. A few sweet almonds. 1 gill cream. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and then cut them in slices. Peel the bananas, and cut them in four or six pieces. Arrange the sponge cakes and bananas in a glass dish, sprinkling them with the macaroons (crushed) and the sweet almonds blanched and shred. Pour the wine over, and let this soak a short time. Then pour over the custard. Whip the cream, sweeten and flavour it to taste, and use it to decorate the top of the trifle. Garnish with a few pieces of cherry and angelica, or other glac6 fruits. Serve very cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. Ad. 1999. Bramble or Blackberry Cream 1 lb. blackberries. 2 or 3 apples. Rind of 1 lemon. I lb. sugar. \ pt. cream, f oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 2 table-sps. water. Pick the blackberries carefully, and put them into a saucepan with the sugar, the thinly-peeled rind of 1 lemon, and 2 or 3 apples peeled and sliced. Stew slowly until the fruit is soft, stirring frequently, then rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Dis- solve the gelatine in about 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and strain it into the fruit puree. When this pur4e is lukewarm, stir in the cream (whipped) very lightly, and colour pink with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. Pour into a wet mould. and put in a cool place to set. When required, turn out and serve plain, or with a little chopped jelly round. Note.—If a more decorative sweet is wanted, the mould used should first be decorated vith some clear jelly and a few pistachio nuts or pieces of cherry. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2000. Burnt Almond Cream (Creme aux Amandes) Make in the same way as Walnut Cream (Recipe 2032). The almonds should be blanched, chopped, and then lightly browned in the oven. 2001. Cold Cabinet Pudding 6 or 8 finger biscuits. 2 oz. ratafias. \ pt. custard. | oz. gelatine. Flavouring. Some sweet jelly. A few cherries and a little angelica. Take a plain pint mould, and decorate it at the bottom with sweet jelly and small pieces of cherry and angelica. Allow this to set, then trim the finger biscuits and line the sides of the mould with them, the same as for a Charlotte Russe (see below). Make a custard with 3 yolks, 2 whites of eggs, and i pint milk, allowing it to thicken well without boiling. Sweeten and flavour to taste, add the gelatine dissolved in a little milk or water, and allow this to cool. Put half the ratafia biscuits into the prepared mould; when the custard is beginning to set, pour it carefully over them, and then put the remainder of the ratafias on the top. Set aside until quite firm, then turn out when wanted and put a little chopped jelly round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2002. Charlotte Russe A Charlotte Russe is a cream mixture, moulded with finger biscuits or cake on the outside. It is easily made, and is a general favourite. To Line the Mould.—A plain mould is required, with straight sides and a flat bottom like a souffle tin. First place at the bottom of the tin a round of oiled paper, cut to fit it exactly. Then trim some finger biscuits, making the sides straight and cutting off one end, so that they will stand level in the tin. Arrange them evenly round the sides of the tin, putting alternately a brown and white side to the outside. They should be long enough to reach to the top ®f the tin, and must be packed very closely together. Sometimes the joins are brushed over with a little white of egg. Instead of the biscuits, strips of sponge cake may be used. Cut the strips from 1 to 1J inches wide, and fit them closely together round the tin. The top of the tin may also be lined with cake or biscuit, cut into triangular-shaped pieces and fitted in evenly. Filling the Mould.—Almost any cream mixture stiffened with gelatine may be used for filling the inside. Below are given two or three different fillings, but such mixtures as chocolate, coffee, raspberry, ginger, vanilla cream, &c., would all be suitable.