STOCKS AND SOUPS 51 45. Cocoanut Soup (Soupe au Noix de Coco) 4 to 6 oz. cocoanut. 3 pts. light stock. 1 table-sp. rice flour. 1 gill cream or J pt. milk. 1 blade mace. Salt and cayenne. paste depends very much upon the kind used and also upon individual taste. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, 2 pints. Put most of the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Grate the cocoanut (fresh is best) and add it to the stock when boiling along with the mace and a little salt. Simmer slowly for i hour, add the rice flour, mixed to a smooth paste with the remainder of the stock and cook 10 minutes longer. Then rub the soup through a fine sieve and return it to the saucepan to reheat. Add the cream or milk and a pinch of cayenne, and serve with sippets of toast. If desiccated cocoanut is used it ought to be soaked for some time in a little of the stock, before being added to the hot stock. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 46. Corn Soup 1 tin sweet corn. 1 qt. meat boilings. \ pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. Salt. Pepper. Open a tin of sweet corn and put it into a sauce- pan with a quart of light stock or meat boilings. Bring to the boil and simmer slowly from 10 to 15 minutes. Then rub as much as possible through a wire sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it. Add the cornflour mixed smoothly with the milk and stir until boiling. Cook a few minutes longer and add the parsley, and seasoning to taste. Put the yolk of egg in the soup tureen and pour the soup gradually on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with sippets of toast or with puffed rice, lightly toasted. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost. Is. Quantity, 2J pints. 47. Curry Vegetable 1 small carrot. 1 small turnip. 1 onion. 1 leek. 1 small cauliflower. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. whole rice. 1 cupful of milk. I apple. Soup (Soupe au Cari) 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. \ tea-sp. curry paste. A little chutney. 1 lump of sugar. 3 pts. stock or water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Clean and prepare the vegetables. Cut the carrot and turnip into dice, and chop the apple. Cut the leek and onion into thin slices, and break up the cauliflower into small pieces, keeping it separate in cold water until required. Melt the butter or drip- ping in a saucepan, put into it the prepared carrot, turnip, leek, onion, and apple, and stir these over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Add the curry powder, curry paste, chutney, pepper, salt, and. the rice well washed. Mix thoroughly with an iron spoon, and then pour in the stock. Bring to the boil, and simmer from 1J to 2 hours, or until the vegetables are almost soft. Then add the cauliflower, and cook for half an hour longer. Add the milk, sugar, and lemon juice before serving. Serve plain boiled rice separately. Note.—The amount of curry powder and curry 48. Endive Soup (Soupe au Chieor6e) 2 or 3 heads of endive. I 1 qt. light stock. 1 egg. 1| or 2 oz. butter. 1 1 gill milk. Seasoning. Wash and trim the endives and shred them down finely. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and toss them over the fire a few minutes until thoroughly softened. Then moisten with some nicely-flavoured and light-coloured stock, bring to the boil, and simmer from 15 to 20 minutes. Season to taste. Beat up the egg with the milk and add them to the soup at the last. Make all thoroughly hot, but do not boil again. Serve with crofitons of fried bread. Note.—A finer soup may be made by sieving the soup and thickening with yolks of egg and cream. Time to cook, J hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 49. Green Pea Soup, from Dried Peas (Soupe aux Pois Secs) i pt. dried green peas. 3 pts. meat boilings or water. 1 oz. dripping. A few parsley stalks. A handful of spinach. 1 lump of sugar. A sprig of mint or £ tea-sp. dried mint. 1 onion. £ pt. hot milk. Salt and pepper. Wash the peas, picking out any discoloured ones, and let them soak in the water or meat boilings overnight. Next day melt the dripping in a sauce- pan, add the spinach washed and picked, the onion chopped, mint and parsley. (If dried mint is used, it must be tied in a small piece of muslin.) Cook these for a few minutes and then add the peas along with the liquid in which they were soaked. Simmer slowly until the peas are quite tender from 2 to 3 hours, then rub as much as possible through a sieve or colander. Return the puree to a clean saucepan to reheat, adding the hot milk and seasoning. Serve with crofitons of fried bread or toast cut in dice. Notes.—The addition of a few cooked fresh peas or tinned peas is an improvement. The water in which a piece of ham or salt meat has been boiled (pro- vided it is not too salt) is excellent for making the soup. If it becomes too thick whilst cooking, more liquid must be added. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 50. Haricot Bean Soup (Soupe aux Haricots Secs) J lb. haricot beans. 3 pts. cold wateD or meat boilings. £ pt. milk. 1 or 2 onions. A few parsley stalks. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 2 oz. beef dripping or bacon fat. White pepper and salt. Put the beans into a basin and wash them well with cold water. Then pour over them the 3 pints of cold water or meat boilings, cover the basin, and let them soak overnight. Next day strain off the liquid and reserve it for making the soup. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the beans and vegetables cut in small pieces, and cook for a few minutes without allowing the contents to brown. Then add the liquid which was poured