COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 258 mixture thickens and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the meat, parsley, mushrooms, and seasonings, and mix well. Then drop in the yolks of eggs and mix again. Turn the mixture on to a plate, smooth it over with a knife, and set aside to cool. To Shape the Cutlets.—When the mixture is cold and set, divide it into seven or eight equal-sized pieces. Take one piece at a time, put it on a slightly floured board, and form it with a knife, also dipped in flour, into a cutlet shape. Use as little flour as possible in the shaping, just sufficient to keep it from sticking to board and knife. Next egg and bread-crumb the cutlets and re-shape them with a dry knife, making them as smooth and neat as possible. If time permits allow them to stand a short time in order to dry before cooking. Then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain well, insert a small piece of spaghetti or fine macaroni in the end of each to imitate the bone of the cutlet, and dish them in a circle, one leaning against the other. Garnish with parsley. 1054. Cold Chicken Fritters Cooked chicken. I Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. | Rolls of bacon. Cut the remains of cooked chicken into neat and convenient-sized pieces. Brush them over with beaten egg that has been seasoned with pepper and salt, and then toss them in fine bread-crumbs. Now fry the prepared pieces in plenty of boiling fat until a golden brown colour, and drain on kitchen paper. Serve the fritters piled up on a hot dish, and garnish with little rolls of bacon. Note.—The chicken may be made more tasty, by marinading it first in a mixture of oil and vinegar, &c. 1055. Ham Mince with Poached Eggs l lb. cooked ham. 1 cupful white sauce. J tea-sp. made mus- tard. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. tomato ketchup. Hot buttered toast. 4 or 5 poached eggs. Trim and mince the ham finely and heat it in the white sauce. Season with the mustard, pepper, and tomato ketchup, and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Have ready 4 or 5 rounds of hot buttered toast, put some of the mince on the top of each, and keep them warm. Poach the eggs and lay them on the top of the mince. Serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Cooked tongue or a mixture of meats may be used in the same way. 1056. Ham and Potato Hash J lb. cooked ham. | lb. cooked potatoes. | oz. butter. \ oz. flour. 1 gill milk or stock. \ tea-sp. made mustard. Pepper. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Mince the ham finely, removing all skin and gristle, and using a small proportion of fat along with the lean. Chop also the potatoes, and mix them with the ham. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and cook the onion in it for 5 minutes without allowing it to brown. Add the flour and mustard, and cook a minute or two longer. Then add the milk or stock, and stir until boiling. Now put in the ham and potatoes, season with pepper, and make all thoroughly hot over the fire. Arrange the hash neatly on a hot dish and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1057. Lamb Reehaufite £ lb. cold roast lamb. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. 1 tea-cupful white stock. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 1 table-sp. red-currant jelly. 1 table-sp. sherry. Salt. Cayenne. Green peas. Mix the arrowroot smoothly with the stock, pour them into a lined saucepan or earthenware casserole and stir until boiling. Add the cream, jelly, wine, and seasoning, and simmer for a few minutes. Have the lamb cut in thin slices and neatly trimmed. Lay the pieces into the sauce and allow them to heat thoroughly. Serve garnished with some cooked green peas. 1058. Ox Tongue in Brown Sauce Cooked ox-tongue. I Hard-boiled egg. Brown sauce. | Pickles or capers. Cut some cooked ox tongue in slices, trimming the pieces neatly. Prepare some good brown sauce (Recipe 670), and when strained re-heat it in a small saucepan. Lay the slices of tongue into this and allow them to become thorouglily hot without boiling. Then arrange them neatly on a hot dish, one piece overlapping the other, and strain the sauce over. Garnish with slices of hard- boiled egg and some green pickle cut in slices, or a few capers. Notes.—Spinach is a good accompaniment to this dish, and if liked this may be moulded, then turned out on the centre of a dish and the tongue placed round it. Other sauces, such as piquante, tomato, bearnaise, Italian, &c., may be used instead of brown sauce. 1059. Fried Tongue with Caper Sauce Cooked tongue. I Egg and bread-crumbs. Lemon juice. Seasoning. | Caper sauce. Cut some cooked tongue in neat slices. Season them with pepper, salt (if necessary), and a little lemon juice, and let them lie for \ an hour or so. Then egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Dish up neatly, gar- nishing with cut lemon and parsley. Serve caper or any other suitable sauce separately. 1060. Cold Rabbit and Spaghetti 6 oz. cooked rabbit. 2 or 3 oz. cooked ham. | pt. white sauce. Grated lemon rind. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. I lb. spaghetti. A few bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Chop the rabbit and ham finely, removing all skin and gristle. Cook the spaghetti in boiling water with a little salt until quite soft, then drain, and cut it in small pieces. Make a sauce with 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, and £ pint of milk or white stock, and season with white pepper and salt.