FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 467 be immediately wiped oS with a cloth wrung out of hot water-. To cover the jam, cut rounds of thin w'hite paper the proper size of the pots, dip these in brandy, whisky, or vinegar, and lay them on the surface, then tie over each pot a piece of wetted vegetable parchment or a gummed paper cover sold for the purpose. Label the pots on the sides with a written or printed label, stating the name of the jam and the date when made. The jam must be stored in a cool, dry place. until reduced to a pulp. They must not he made too liquid. Pick and wash the cranberries, put them into another saucepan with the sugar, and bruise them down with the back of a wooden spoon. Unless this is done, they will never become sweet. Add them to the apple pulp, and boil both together until the jam will set. Note.—This is a very useful jam, as it can be made in the winter, when other fruit is scarce. It is very good served with roast game or mutton instead of red-currant jelly. 2112. Apple Ginger 3 lbs. apples. I 6 oz. whole ginger. 3 lbs. preserving sugar. | Water. Put the ginger into a jug or lined saucepan with boiling water and let it infuse by the side of the fire for several hours, keeping it well covered. Peel the apples, cut them into neat pieces, removing the core, and throw them into cold water to preserve the colour. Drain the water from the ginger and make up the quantity to 1^ pint. Put this into a preserving pan with the sugar, bring to the boil, and boil from 8 to 10 minutes. Drain the pieces of apple, throw them gently into this syrup, and let them boil until transparent, but not broken. Then lift them out carefully, put them into jars, and pour the syrup over. 2113. Apple Jelly To each pint of apple juice allow 1 lb. of preserving sugar and the rind and juice of 1 lemon. Wash the apples and cut them in four or six pieces, according to the size, without removing the peel and cores. Put these into a preserving pan with just sufficient cold water to cover them. Bring to the boil and boil gently for 1 hour or longer, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When reduced to a pulp, pour all into a jelly bag or cloth, and allow the juice to drip all night. The juice ought to be of a thickish consistency when cold; if very watery, either too much water has been added, or the pulp has not been sufficiently cooked. Next day measure the juice carefully and put it into a preserving pan with the lemon rind, peeled off thinly and tied in muslin, and the lemon juice, if liked. Bring to the boil and add the proper proportion of sugar. Stir carefully until the sugar is melted, and then boil quickly from 20 to 30 minutes or until the jelly will set when tested on a plate. The time depends very much upon the kind of fruit used. Remove any scum from the top before potting. Note.—This jelly may be flavoured with whole ginger instead of lemons, or orange juice and rind may be used instead of lemon juice and rind. The apple pulp may be sieved, mixed with sugar, and boiled carefully for \ hour, and can be used for making puffs or an open tart. It will not keep long. 2114. Apple and Cranberry Jam 2 lbs. apples (weighed after peeling and coring). 1 lb. cranberries. 3 lbs. preserving sugar. A little water. . Peel, core, and slice the apples. Put them into a preserving pan with a little water and stew them 2115. Apple and Pear Jam 4 lbs. apples. 4 lbs. pears. 8 lbs. preserving sugar. Rind of 4 lemons. 2 oz. whole ginger. 1 oz. cinnamon stick, pts. water. cinnamon in a mortar. Pound the ginger and then put them into a saucepan with the water, and simmer slowly until the strength is extracted and the quantity reduced to 1 pint. Put this essence into a preserving pan, add the sugar, and gradually dissolve it over the fire. Then add the rind of the lemons grated, and the apples and pears peeled and cut in small pieces. Boil all together for 1 hour, or until the mixture will jelly. Then pot. 2116. Apricot Jam or Marmalade, 1 To each pound of apricots (weighed after stoning), allow | lb. preserving sugar. Wipe the apricots, and, if time permits, remove the skins. Cut them in halves with a silver knife and take out the stones. Spread out the apricots on large dishes and strew over them their proper proportion of sugar. Let them stand thus for at least 12 hours. Meanwhile break the stones, or at least some of them, blanch the kernels, and add them to the apricots. Next day turn all into a preserving pan and simmer very gently until the apricots are clear and the jam will set. It must be stirred very carefully, and the time required will be from f to 1 hour. 2117. Apricot Jam or Marmalade, 2 Apricots. A little water. Preserving sugar. Take as many apricots as desired, wipe them, peel them, and cut them in halves, removing the stones. Then cut them in small pieces and weigh them. Put the prepared apricots into a preserving pan, and add to them an equal weight of sugar and about J pint of water to each 4 lbs. fruit. Boil all together, stirring almost constantly, until a little of the marmalade will set when tested on a plate. Then pour into pots, and cover. Note.—A few of the kernels may be blanched and added to the marmalade. 2118. Apricot Jam or Marmalade, 3 4 lbs. apricots. I 3 lbs. sugar. 1 gill water. I i pt. water. Wipe and stone the apricots, but do not peel them. Put them into a preserving pan with the above proportion of water, and cook them until reduced to a soft pulp. Then rub them through a sieve. Put the sugar and its proper proportion of water into a preserving pan and boil them to- gether to the “ hard ball ” (see p. 597), skimming