FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 469 stones and reserve the kernels, as these help to give a nice flavour to the jam. This jam is much better when made with some fruit juice instead of water, as this helps to set it and make a jelly. Red- currant juice is perhaps the best kind to use, but failing that, use gooseberry or apple juice, or a mixture of fruit juice and water. Put the proper proportion of fruit juice and sugar into a preserving pan and boil them together until they are like a syrup. Then put in the cherries and kernels, and boil again slowly until the fruit is tender and the jam will set, when tested on a cold plate. When ready, pour into pots and cover. 2127. Crab-apple Jelly 8 lbs. crab apples. 4 qts. water. Preserving sugar. Wash the apples, cut them in two, and put them into a preserving pan with the above proportion of water. Bring to the boil and cook slowly until the apples are soft and broken. Then strain all night through a jelly bag or cloth. Next day measure the juice and return it to the preserving pan, along with 1 lb. of sugar to each pint. Boil together until the jelly will set, then pour into jars and cover in the usual way. 2128. Cranberry Jelly Make in the same way as Black-currant Jelly. 2129. Damson Cheese Damsons. Preserving sugar. Remove the stalks from the damsons and look over them carefully. Then wash and drain them well. Put them into a large jar with a lid, and steam them or cook them in the oven until tender. Then rub as much as possible through a fine wire sieve. Measure this pulp, and put it into a preserv- ing pan along with f lb. preserving sugar to each pint. Boil together until of a very thick consist- ency, and until the mixture will set very quickly when tested on a cold plate. The damson cheese must be stirred very carefully, and especially when it begins to thicken. When ready, pour into small oiled pots and cover. Keep for some time before using. Notes.—If liked, a few of the kernels may be blanched and chopped, and added to the cheese, but very few, as they are decidedly bitter. A mixture of damsons and apples is very good. 2130. Damson Jam Damsons. | lb. preserving sugar to each lb. fruit. Remove the stalks from the damsons and ex- amine them carefully. Then wash and dry them in a cloth. Put them into a preserving pan and let them stand by the side of the fire until the juice begins to flow. Now bring the fruit to the boil, and add the proper proportion of crushed pre- serving sugar. Boil both together until the liquid Will set readily, removing during the cooking as many of the stones as possible. When ready, pot and cover as directed on p. 466. 2131. Damson and Apple Jam 8 lbs. damsons. 2 pts. apple juice. 10 lbs. sugar, . Pick the fruit carefully, rejecting any that is not sound. Then wash if necessary, or rub it between the folds of a coarse towel. Prepare the apple juice in the same way as for Apple Jelly (see p. 467). Put the damsons into the preserving pan with their proper proportion.of sugar and apple juice, and stir carefully until they come to the boil. Take out as many stones as possible and boil the jam for 20 minutes, or until it will stiffen. Note.—This jam will be nicer if the stones can be removed from the damsons before they are used. A few of them can then be cracked, and the kernels blanched and used for flavouring. They should be tied in muslin and removed before the jam is' potted, as they are too bitter to eat. 2132. Fruit Pastes Various fruits may be used for making into paste, and this makes a very useful sweet for serving at dessert. Among the most suitable fruits to use are apples, apricots, quinces, plums, pears, &c., or a kind that has some substance in it. First prepare the fruit, removing the stones, but neither the skin nor peel, and cut it in small pieces. Put it into a preserving pan with just a small quantity of water, boil it, stirring frequently, until quite soft and pulpy, and then rub it through a sieve. Mea- sure this pulp, and weigh 1 lb. of sugar for each pint. Put the sugar with enough water to moisten it into a saucepan and boil them to the “ crack ” (see p. 597), skimming when necessary. Then add the pulp and boil again, stirring constantly until the mixture is quite thick and begins to draw away from the sides and bottom of the saucepan. Pour out the mixture in shallow tins or plates that have been wet with brandy. The paste should not be more than | inch thick. When cold and set, cut it in strips or fancy shapes, and roll them in fine crystallised sugar. Store in a tin box between layers of wax or grease-proof paper. 2133. Grape Jelly To 1 pint grape juice allow 1 lb. preserving sugar. The thinnings of grapes may be used for this. Wipe them and remove the stalks. Put them into a preserving pan with just enough water to moisten them, and boil them gently until soft. Then strain through a fine hair sieve or jelly cloth. Now measure the juice and return it to the preserv- ing pan with the above proportion of sugar. Bring carefully to the boil, and continue the boiling until the jelly will set when tested on a plate. When ready, pour it into small pots and cover in the usual way. 2134. Gooseberry Jam 4 lbs. green gooseberries. [ | pt. cold water. 4 lbs. preserving sugar. | Choose fresh young gooseberries before the skins are too hard. Top and tail them, and wash and drain them well. Put the sugar into a preserving pan with the water, let it dissolve, then bring to the boil and skim if necessary. Add the goose- berries, and boil all together'gently until the jam will set readily. Pour into pots when ready, and cover at once. 2135. Green Gooseberry Jelly Green gooseberries and best cane sugar in the proportion of 1 lb. sugar to 1 pt. juice. Choose the gooseberries before they are ripe, top and tail them, and then wash them thoroughly.