628 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD or tie over it some thin slices of fat bacon. Place the bird in a greased bag, seal up, and set on a grid. Cook in a hot oven, reducing the heat after the first 10 minutes, allowing from 30 to 35 for a young chicken, and from \ to 1 hour for an older bird. If the chicken is stuffed, rather .longer time should be allowed. Game may be cooked in the same way. 3038. Beef Olives Prepare the beef olives as directed in Recipe 841, tying them up with fine string. Arrange them neatly in a well-greased paper bag, and seal up. Place the bag on a grid, and cook in a hot oven from f to 1 hour. When ready, remove the bag and strings, and serve the olives on a hot dish with a little finely-shred horse-radish, or a pat of maitre d’hotel butter on the top of each. A little good gravy or brown sauce may be poured round. 3039. Irish Stew Prepare the meat, potato, and onions for this stew as directed in Recipe 902, leaving very little fat on the meat, and season them well with pepper and salt. Put them into a well-greased bag with enough water to moisten, and fasten the bag very securely. Place on a grid, and cook in a hot oven about 1 hour. 3040. Sheep’s Kidneys Split the kidneys in halves, and remove the skin and core. Wrap each piece in a thin rasher of bacon, and when all are ready place them in a well-greased bag. Seal up and cook in a hot oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Or, the bacon may be omitted and the kidney fixed on a skewer the same as for broiling. Seasoning and a little butter should be added. Or again, the kidneys may be made into a stew. Cut them in small pieces and roll in flour. Season well with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Add a little chopped shallot and parsley, and mix all together. Put into a greased bag, add a little good stock or wine, seal up, and cook in a good oven about 30 minutes. 3041. Liver and Bacon Wash and dry the liver, and cut it in thinnish slices. Coat these with flour, and season them with pepper and salt. Now lay a thin rasher of bacon on the top of each piece of fiver, or wrap the bacon round the fiver. Or, to make a still more savoury dish, prepare a little veal stuffing, and place some between the fiver and bacon, making a sandwich as it were. Place the fiver and bacon in a well-greased bag, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls stock or water, seal up, and cook from 15 to 20 minutes in a good oven. 3042. Beef-steak and Kidney Pudding Prepare some meat and suet crust as directed in Recipe 1467. Divide the crust in two pieces, and roll each piece into a round of medium thick- ness. Wet round the edge of one of these rounds, and place the prepared and seasoned beef and kidney in the centre. Moisten with a little water or stock, and lay the other round on the top. Press the two edges well together, and pinch them round. Make a small hole in the top of the pudding, and slip it into a well-greased paper bag. Seal up, leaving a little room inside the bag. Place on a grid, and cook in a hot oven about 1 hour. Note.—Meat pies may be made in the same manner, using ordinary pastry, rolled out to about J of an inch in thickness, and meat and seasoning to taste. 3043. New Potatoes Peel the required number of potatoes, and cut them in halves. Place them in a well-greased bag wet from the washing. Season them with salt, and add one leaf of mint. Seal up and place the bag on the grid. Cook from 30 to 35 minutes in a hot oven. 3044. Tomatoes Peel the required number of tomatoes, arrange them neatly in a well-greased paper bag, and season them with pepper and salt. Put a pinch of castor sugar and a small piece of butter on the top of each, and seal up the bag. Place on a grid, and cook in a good oven from 12 to 15 minutes. Stuffed tomatoes are also very good cooked in this way. 3045. Tarts and Puddings These may be made in the ordinary way, and just slipped into a greased paper bag for cooking; or, they can be made without the dish as directed for Beef-steak and Kidney Pudding (see above). Ornament the tart with a few leaves of pastry, and, after baking, dredge it well with castor sugar. Apple dumplings may be made in the ordinary way and cooked in a greased bag well sealed up. Suet dumplings, too, and a jam roly-poly will cook very well if simply slipped into a well-greased bag, room being allowed for them to swell. Other puddings, of a softer nature, are better put into a souffle dish or pie dish first, and then put into the bag, as this secures a better appearance. 3046. Scones and Cakes Any kind of scone may be cooked in a paper bag, and very successfully too. The bag must be well greased, and must be large and loose enough to allow room for the scone to rise. Cakes, too, may be cooked in this way, some being put straight into the greased bag, such as small buns, tea-cakes, and biscuits, and others placed in a prepared tin first, and then slipped into the bag. The bag must always be greased, and room must always be left for the mixture to rise. Bake in a fairly hot oven.