383 BREAKFAST DISHES seasonings, and cover with buttered paper. Bake 10 minutes in a moderate oven. Fry the bacon carefully until crisp. Serve the tomatoes on the centre of a hot dish, and place the slices of bacon round, or arrange the two alternately on the dish, according to taste. Note.—If preferred, the tomatoes may be fried quickly in the bacon fat. 1650. Egg and Bacon Rolls, 1 Boiled eggs. Bacon. Boil the number of eggs required, without making them too hard. Then shell them and lay them in boiling water, if not required at once. Have ready a nice thin rasher of bacon for each egg, trimmed free from rind and rust. Dry the eggs carefully and wrap a piece of bacon round each, leaving the white ends of the eggs showing. Fix the bacon in position with a tiny skewer or piece of match. Heat a frying pan, lay in the covered eggs, and keep turning them over and over until the bacon is sufficiently cooked. Serve at once and very hot. 1651. Egg and Bacon Rolls, 2 5 or 6 thin slices of bacon. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Grated lemon rind. Salt. Pepper. 1 yolk of egg. A little milk. Chop the hard-boiled egg and mix it in a basin with the bread-crumbs, parsley, a little grated lemon rind, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Mix well and then bind together with the raw yolk of an egg and a little milk, making a stuffing as it were. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon and spread out the slices on a board. Put some of the stuffing on each, and roll them up into tidy little rolls. Fasten these with a skewer, put them on a baking tin, and bake them in a moderate oven about 10 minutes. Serve the rolls on a very hot dish, or if liked on croutons of fried bread. Note.—Other savoury mixtures may be put inside the bacon in place of the egg stuffing. 1652. Bath Chap (Pig’s Cheek) A pig’s cheek can be bought simply pickled, or dried and cured as well, when it is known as a Bath Chap. If the latter, it will require several hours’ soaking before it can be cooked; if the former, washing alone may be sufficient, unless it is very salt. To cook the cheek, put it into a saucepan with warm water to cover it, bring to the boil and • then simmer slowly until tender. When ready, lift it out, remove the skin, and cover the cheek with fine browned bread-crumbs in the same way as a ham. This may be served hot with a dish of nicely cooked greens, but it is almost better cold as a breakfast dish. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. 1653. Ham and Eggs Cut the required number of slices of ham, being careful to make them of equal thickness. Trim off all rind and rust, and, if the ham is very salt, allow the slices to lie in boiling water, closely covered. from 10 to 12 minutes. Then lift them out and dry them in a cloth. Heat a frying pan over the fire, and, if the ham is lean, melt in it a small piece of butter. When hot, lay in the shoes of ham, and cook them quickly first on one side and then on the other. When sufficiently cooked, place them on a hot dish and keep warm over hot water. Break an egg at a time into a smaU tea-cup, slip it into the fat left in the pan, and let it remain until the white is set, ladling a little fat over it occasionahy. Then take it up with a small fish slice, ahow any fat to drain from it, trim if necessary and lay on the top of the ham. Prepare as many eggs as required in the same way and serve all as hot as possible—a hot-water dish is the best for the purpose. 1654. Ham and Eggs with Rice 4 poached eggs. 1 lb. rice. 2 or 3 tab.-sps. bacon fat 4 slices of ham. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Boil the rice in the same way as for curry and make it very dry. Then melt the bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the rice, season to taste and make it thoroughly hot. Fry four good shoes of ham and poach the eggs. Now arrange the rice neatly in a hot dish, lay the ham and eggs on the top and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 1655. Devilled Ham Slices of raw ham. I Browned bread-crumbs. Devil paste. | Parsley or watercress. Make the devil paste according to directions given in recipe 763. Cut the required number of slices of ham, making them rather less than J inch in thickness. Make two or three slits in each to prevent their curling up in the cooking, and spread them on one side with the devil paste. Sprinkle a few browned bread-crumbs over, and place the pieces on a greased baking tin. Cook them in a quick oven from 8 to 10 minutes, and then arrange them on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. Serve as quickly as possible. Note.—The ham may be grilled if preferred. 1656. Ham Toast 3 oz. lean cooked ham. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. A pinch of cayenne. A little made mustard. 2 slices of toast. A little parsley. Remove all skin and gristle from the ham, and chop it finely. Put it into a saucepan with the butter and seasonings, and add the two eggs well beaten. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken, but is by no means hard, then serve it on neat pieces of hot buttered toast. Garnish with small sprigs of parsley, or sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. 1657. Potted Beef 1 lb. juicy beef. I lb. butter. Salt. Pepper. Mixed spice. J tea-sp. made mustard. 2 or 3 anchovies. Cayenne. 1 bay-leaf. Wipe the beef and cut it in very small pieces, removing the skin, but leaving any hard good fat. Put it into a stewing jar with rather more than half the butter, pepper, salt, a good pinch of