COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 358 1533. Orange Tart Rough-puff or puff pastry. 2 large oranges. (Tarte a 1’Orange) 2 or 3 eggs. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. biscuit crumbs. Make an open tart with pastry as directed in Recipe 1528, and prick the pastry lining the dish. To Make the Mixture.—Wipe the oranges, grate off the rind, and rub it into the sugar. Then cream the butter and sugar together, add to them the yolks of eggs and then the biscuit crumbs and strained juice of the oranges. Lastly, stir in the whites beaten to a stiff froth, and pour the mixture into the lined dish. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and crisp, and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Time to bake, about £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1534. Sago and Raspberry Tart (Tarte a la Servienne) 1536. Syrup or Treacle Tart 2 table-sps. syrup or treacle. 2 table-sps. oatmeal or bread-crumbs. Plain short crust. Flavouring. Put the syrup or treacle into a basin and thicken it with the bread-crumbs or oatmeal. Flavour with a little lemon or orange juice, or, if preferred, a little ground ginger or spice. Then make an open tart as directed in Recipe 1528 (2), and use the above mixture instead of jam. Open Tart or Flan This is another kind of open tart, perhaps more often seen in French and American cuisine than in our English kitchens, but still it is very easily made, and forms a nice change to our ordinary fruit pie or tart. The pastry is shaped inside a ring or circle of tin placed on a greased baking tin. Short or puff pastry. 3 table-sps. sago. A little water. 1 pint milk. 2 oz. sugar. Vanilla flavouring. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 table-sps. raspberry syrup. Meringue. 2 whites of eggs. 2 oz. sugar. Vanilla. Put the sago into a basin with enough cold water to cover it, and let it soak overnight. Then drain off any water, put the sago into a saucepan with the milk, and simmer it very slowly until quite clear and thoroughly cooked. Meanwhile line a shallow tin with puff pastry or short crust (see Open Tart, 1) and bake it in the oven. When the sago is cooked, add the raspberry syrup to it, the sugar flavouring, and yolks of eggs. Mix well, but do not boil again. Pour this mixture into the pastry case, and then prepare the meringue. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add the sugar, and flavour with a little vanilla. Pile this rockily on the top of the tart, dredge with sugar, and place in a moderately cool oven until the meringue is a golden brown colour. Take out, leave till cold, and serve. Time to bake, § hour in all. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1535. Open Strawberry Tart (Tarte aux Fraises) Short crust. 1 lb. strawberries. 2 oz. castor sugar. Juice of \ lemon. 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. sugar. Make an open tart with short crust as directed in Recipe 1528, but do not bake it. Pick the strawberries and arrange them closely on the lined dish. Sprinkle with sugar and squeeze the lemon juice over. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and crisp. Then beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to them 2 table- spoonfuls of sifted sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the strawberries. Dredge with sugar and return the tart to a cooler oven to dry and slightly brown the meringue. Serve either hot or cold. A jug of cream served with the tart will be an improvement. Note.—A little brandy or liqueur maybe sprinkled over the strawberries before cooking. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. Rings for Open Tart This circle may be either plain or fluted; it is usually about 1 inch in depth, and can be had in various sizes according to the kind of tart required. In this way greater depth is obtained than in our ordinary open tart made in a flat dish. A good compote of fruit, a puree of fruit with cream, small pieces of uncooked fruit, a custard, or some other sweet mixture may be used for filling the pastry case. A flan may either be baked first and then filled, or the filling may be baked along with the pastry. This will depend on the kind of mix- ture used. The following are directions for making the flan. To Make the Flan.—Short crust, dripping crust, or cornflour pastry are the best to use for this. It should not be made too rich, or the tart will be inclined to break on being lifted. Take a tart ring, either plain or fluted, and according to the size you wish the flan to be. Grease it inside and place it on a baking tin with a piece of greased paper below it. Then roll out the pastry to rather less than J inch in thickness, and line the tin within the tart ring with it. Press the pastry well on to the ring and at the bottom, where the ring touches the tin, in order to make a neat case. Trim off round the edges with a pair of scissors, leaving about £ inch of pastry above the top of the ring. Mark this round with the back of a knife or with a pair of pincers to give it a finished appearance. Now prick the pastry at the bottom of the case, and it is ready for filling. Or, if the case has to be baked before the filling is put into it, line it with greased paper, and fill it up with raw rice or haricot beans in order to keep the shape. Then, when baked, remove this padding and return the pastry to the oven for a few minutes to thoroughly dry the inside. The following recipes will illustrate the various kinds of fillings which can be put into flans: