110 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Place them on the fire and boil until the mussels open, shaking the pan occasionally. As soon as the shells open the mussels will be sufficiently cooked. Then drain them, reserving the liquor. Cut away the “ beard,” the little black part like a weed, with a pair of scissors, and the mussels are ready for use. Note.—Sometimes an onion is cooked along with the mussels. If it turns black the mussels are not good. 313. Mussels a la Mariniere 2 to 3 doz. mussels. 1 small onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 gill mussel liquor. 1 gill white wine or milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Pepper and salt. Prepare and cook the mussels as above. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion very finely chopped, and cook it slowly a few minutes. Stir in the flour and allow it to cook, then add the mussel liquor (see above) and white wine or milk, and stir until boiling. Allow this sauce to simmer slowly at least 5 minutes, add the parsley and seasoning and pour over the mussels. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 314. Mussels a la Poulette (Moules a la Poulette) Prepare in the same way as last recipe, adding 1 or 2 yolks of eggs to the sauce at the last. Oysters (Huitres) There are several different kinds of oysters; in this country the “ natives ” are highly esteemed, while in America the “ blue-points ” are much in favour. For cooking purposes the Portuguese and Dutch oysters may well be utilised. Oysters must only be eaten when in season, i.e. - from September to May. They must also be very fresh. When this is the case the shell is closed tightly. Good oysters are never so fine as when served raw, but there are also many ways of cooking them. The following recipes will no doubt suggest many others to the intelligent cook. 315. Oysters au Naturel (Huitres au Naturel) Fresh oysters. | Cut lemon. Seasonings. I Brown bread and butter. When oysters are served raw they must be very fresh. They should be kept in a very cool place, and well washed or scrubbed before using. Open them only a very short time before they are needed or the flavour will be spoilt. Hold them with the deep shell in the palm of the left hand, and break them on one side with a special oyster knife. Serve them in the deeper shell so as to retain as much of the liquid as possible. Allow six oysters for each person. Arrange them neatly on a plate, with the valve sides to the centre. Place a quarter of a cut lemon in the middle, and garnish with a little fresh parsley or small cress. In warm weather a little finely broken ice may be used for dishing them round, but oysters should never be allowed to freeze as it spoils them. Thin brown bread and butter and black and red pepper should be served separately, also vinegars if desired. 316. Roasted Oysters Wash and scrub the oysters. Place them on a baking tin, with the deeper shell downwards, and bake in a hot oven until the shells open. Remove the upper shells, being careful to save the liquor, and season each oyster with cayenne pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice or a few drops of vinegar. Put small pieces of butter on the top, and serve at once in the lower shells. Note.—By this method of cooking the flavour of the oyster is well retained. 317. Fried Oysters (Huitres Frites) 1 doz. fresh oysters. I Bread or biscuit crumbs. Pepper, salt. | 1 egg. A little milk. Drain the oysters and dip each one in very fine bread or biscuit crumbs, or in a little flour. Beat up an egg with a little milk, and season with pepper and salt. Dip the oysters in the egg and again in the crumbs. Press the coating of crumbs lightly on to the oysters and shape them neatly. Place a few at a time in the frying basket, and plunge into boiling fat. As soon as they are a golden brown colour lift them out and drain on kitchen paper. Proceed with the others in the same way. Serve them very hot, and as quickly as possible. Celery salad or horse-radish sauce may be handed sepa- rately. Note.—Sieved Indian meal may be used instead of the cracker or biscuit crumbs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 318. Scalloped Oysters (Huitres en Coquilles) 1 doz. oysters. 1 oz. butter. Pepper, salt. Bread-crumbs. Lemon juioe. Chopped parsley. Take 3 or 4 scallop or china shells and grease them well with a little butter. Put a layer of fine bread-crumbs at the bottom of each, then 2 or 3 oysters nicely seasoned with pepper, salt, parsley, and a few drops of lemon juice. Cover with more bread-crumbs and moisten with some of the oyster liquor. Put the butter in small pieces on the top, and brown quickly in a hot oven or under the grill. Garnish with small slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley. Note.—Tinned oysters may be used for this dish. Time- to bake, 5 to 10 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 319. Oyster Fritters, 1 (Beignets d’Huitres) Oysters. 1 Lemon juice. Frying batter. | Coralline pepper. Drain the oysters from their liquor, and make some frying batter according to Recipe 1861. Take the oysters one at a time on a dessert spoon, season them with lemon juice and a little coralline pepper, dip them into the frying batter, cover them well and then slip them into a saucepan of boiling fat. Fry to a golden brown colour, then drain and serve piled up on a hot dish and garnished with parsley and cut lemon. 320. Oyster Fritters, 2 (Angels on Horseback) Make in the same way as above, wrapping the oysters in a very thin slice of bacon before dipping them in the batter.