427 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS then add the apple pulp, and mix all together. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased china souffle dish or pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, sprinkle with sugar and serve as quickly as possible. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1905. Apricot Soufflg, Steamed (Souffle aux Abricots) 1 oz. butter, 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill apricot puree. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 or 3 drops of carmine or cochineal. 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. A squeeze lemon juice. First prepare the puree by rubbing some tinned apricots through a hair sieve. Use some of the syrup from the tin along with the apricots so as not to have the pur6e too thick. Fresh apricots may be used in place of the tinned, but these would require to be stewed first with a little water and sugar. In making the souffle, proceed exactly according to directions given for a Steamed Souffle (see p. 425), using the gill of apricot puree as the gill of liquid. Before mixing in the whites, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and just enough carmine or cochineal to make the mixture a peachy colour. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly and steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out carefully, and serve at once with apricot, custard, or wine sauce poured round it. Note.—Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. Time to steam, J to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1906. Apricot Souffle (Baked), 1 (Souffle aux Abricots) 4 whites of eggs. 5 or 6 tinned apricots. Vanilla or other flavour- ing. A pinch of salt. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin, and work them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Then add the rice flour and the salt, and mix again. Add the apricot syrup by degrees, stirring all the time, and turn the mixture into a saucepan. Cook over a gentle fire, stirring all the time, until almost boiling ; then remove at once, and stir until slightly cooled. Add the apricots, cut in small pieces, and the flavouring. (A little liqueur, maraschino, or noyeau is an improvement.) Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in at the last. Arrange the mixture on a flat fireproof dish in the form of a dome. Mark the sides with the back of a fork, and bake in a slow oven. Serve on a dish with a folded and warmed serviette under it. Some apricot sauce may be served separately. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. oz. castor sugar. | oz. rice flour. 1 gill syrup from apricots. 3 yolks of eggs. 1907. Apricot Souffle (Baked), 2 (SoufflG aux Abricots) 1| gills apricot puree. i A little water. 3 oz. sugar. I 4 whites of eggs. Take some very ripe fresh apricots, wipe and halve them, take out the stones and rub through a fine sieve sufficient to make the required quan- tity of puree. Put the sugar into a saucepan with enough water to moisten it and boil it to the crack, or to 300° F. Add to it the fruit puree and mix well, flavouring with a little liqueur if desired. Beat the whites of eggs in a basin to a very stiff froth, and pour the apricot mixture slowly on to them, stirring all the time. Grease and sugar a fireproof souffle dish and half fill it with the mix- ture. Bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—Other fruit souffles may be made in the same way. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1908. Banana SoufflO (Souffl6 aux Bananes) \ doz. bananas. 3 eggs. Sugar. 1 lemon. Choose ripe bananas. Peel them and rub them through a sieve with a silver spoon. Add to the pulp the grated rind and juice of one lemon, sugar to taste, and the yolks of the three eggs. Mix well, and lastly stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a very stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—Orange juice or a glass of wine may be used instead of the lemon flavouring. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1909. Chestnut Souffl6 (SoufflS aux Matrons) 2 doz. chestnuts. \ pt. milk. 2 table-sps. cream. A few drops of vanilla. 3 oz. sugar. 4 whites of eggs. Wash the chestnuts, make a slit in each and boil them in water about 10 minutes. Then remove the shell and inner skin. Put them into a saucepan with the milk and cook them slowly until quite soft. Sieve them with the milk in which they have been cooked and stir the puree until quite smooth. Add sugar, flavouring, and the cream lightly whipped. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish, dredge it with sugar, mark across with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and well risen. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10d. 1910. Chocolate Souffle, Steamed (Souffle au Chocolat) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. sugar. 2 oz. chocolate. Grate or shred the 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Vanilla flavouring, chocolate, dissolve it in the milk until quite smooth, and strain into a