INVALID COOKERY 545 water, and simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours. Strain, and sweeten to taste. Lemon juice may be added if liked. Note.—Irish or Carrageen moss is a sea-weed, and is collected on the northern shores of Ireland. Its nutritive value is considerable; and, from the the jug and set the lemonade aside until cold. Strain oil as required. Note.—If preferred, the lemonade may be made with less water, and soda or potash water added to it when serving, or barley or rice water may be mixed with it. 1. 2. 1. Irish Moss 2. Iceland Moss amount of mucilage it contains, it is used as a remedy in diseases of the chest. It also contains iodine and sulphur. It should be well washed, and soaked for some hours previous to cooking. It can be made either into a drink or a jelly. Irish moss is pleasanter to the taste than Iceland moss. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. Probable cost, 3\d. 2611. Koumiss 3 gills new milk. 1 small lump of sugar. German yeast, size of small nut. 4 gill boiling water. [For each pint bottle.) The bottles must be very clean, and the milk as new as possible. Fill the bottles nearly full with the milk and water, and put into each the small piece of yeast and the lump of sugar. Cork them tightly with new corks, and fasten them down very securely with wire. (The corks should be soaked for some time before being used.) Keep the bottles lying on their sides in a warm place, such as a dining-room cupboard, and shake them two or three times a day, for from 4 to 6 days. In cold weather koumiss will take longer to make than in warm. Notes.—Be careful in opening the bottle, or half the contents may be lost. It is very effervescent. Koumiss is a very refreshing drink, and more easily digested than ordinary milk. The water is added as in the case of a champagne tap being used ; the milk without it would be in too large flakes to pass through. Bottles with patent stoppers may be used to avoid the corks and wire. Time to make, 4 to 6 days. Probable cost, 2d. per bottle. 2612. Lemonade 2 lemons. 1 pt. boiling water. 2 or 3 lumps sugar. Choose fresh, juicy lemons, and wash them first in cold water. Peel the rind off one of them very thinly, taking only the outside yellow part, and put it into a jug. Then roll the lemons on the table to soften them, cut them in halves, squeeze out the juice, and strain it into the jug. Add sugar to taste, and pour on the water freshly boiled. Cover 2613. Milk Lemonade Juice of 1 lemon. 1 gill boiling water. 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 gill of milk. I table-sp. sugar. Strain the lemon juice, and add to it the sherry and sugar. Pour on the boiling water, and stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add the milk cold, and stir until the milk curdles. Strain through a piece of muslin that has been rinsed in warm water, and serve warm or cold. Probable cost, 3d. 2614. Linseed Tea 1 table-sp. whole lin- seed. 1- pt. boiling water. 2 or 3 lumps of sugar. Rind and juice of \ a lemon. Put the linseed into a jug with the sugar, the thinly peeled rind of | a lemon, and the juice. Have the water freshly boiled, and pour it over. Cover the jug, let it stand till cold, and then strain. Notes.—If this is wanted thicker, it may be put on with cold water in the same proportions, and slowly boiled for 20 minutes. Add the lemon juice after straining. Do not bruise the linseed, or it will have a bitter taste. If the drink is used for a bad cold, a small piece of liquorice root or sugar candy may be soaked or boiled with it, or half a table-spoonful of honey may be used. Probable cost, 1 \d. 2615. Milk, To Keep and Serve Purity and cleanliness in milk are essential. Every jug or vessel in which it is kept must be carefully washed and well scalded. The best way to buy it is in sealed or closed bottles. Always keep the milk in a cool place and let it be well covered. Milk must never be boiled, but if required hot place the jug or bottle containing it in a saucepan of water ; bring to the boil, and continue the boil- ing until the milk is hot enough. If the milk has to be kept overnight, continue the boiling for 15 minutes. When pure milk is found too heavy, it may be diluted with soda or potash water, or lime water or barley water may be used. The flavour of the milk may be somewhat disguised by adding to it a little strong, clear coffee, or milk tea may be made, if allowed. Or again, it may be given in the form of junket or milk jelly. When a more strengthening drink is required, the milk may be mixed with a little beef-tea, meat essence, or Bovril, or one of the various egg drinks may be made. Milk should always be taken very slowly, and not gulped down. When the digestion is very weak, the doctor may order the milk to be peptonised or pre- digested. This can be done with Fairchild’s Pep- tonising Powders (see directions given on the box 2 M