VEGETABLES PART I FRESH VEGETABLES AND HOW TO COOK THEM ARTICHOKES There are three different kinds of artichokes, the globe, the Jerusalem, and the Japanese. The globe artichoke is green or purplish in colour and resembles a large thistle, or the cone of a pine in appearance. The base of the leaves and the bottom or “ fond ” are the parts that are edible. It is very delicate and pleasant in flavour, but oontains little nourishment. The Jerusalem artichoke (Fr. topinambmir) is quite a different vegetable, resembling the former somewhat in flavour only. It is the tuber root of a kind of sunflower and looks like a rough potato. It is a good winter vegetable and is always fairly oheap. It is a favourite vegetable for diabetics as it oontains no starch and very little sugar. The leaves of the plant are used as fodder for cattle. The Japanese artichoke (“ crosne ” or stachys tvberosa) somewhat resembles the Jerusalem arti- choke in appearance, only it is much smaller and lighter in colour. It is very delicate in flavour, and has only within recent years been introduced into this country. 389. Globe Artichokes, To Boil (Artichauts au Natural) Choose young fresh artichokes for boiling, the green ones are better than those with a purple tint. Cut the stem off even with the leaves, remove the hardest bottom leaves, and cut about an inch Globe Artichokes off those at the top, thus making an opening in the centre of the artichokes. Wash the artichokes thoroughly, and soak them in cold water with a few drops of vinegar in it for half an hour, to draw out any insects. Lift them out, rinse in fresh water and place them upside down in a colander or sieve to drain. Have ready on the fire a saucepan three parts full of boiling water, to which a little salt and the juice of a lemon have been added. Sometimes a little powdered charcoal is added to the water to improve the colour of the artichokes. Plunge the AND SALADS 127 artichokes into this points downwards, boil them quickly for 5 or 6 minutes, then cook more slowly until tender, or until the leaves can be detached easily when pulled. Drain well, remove the “ choke ” or the soft flowery part from the centre and serve them on a hot folded serviette. Hand melted butter or sauce hollandaise separately, or the artiohokes may be served cold with sauce vinaigrette. The dish will take its name from the sauce which accompanies it. Note.—It is usual to allow one artichoke to each person, but if large they may be cut in halves. Time to boil, \ to 1 hour. 390. Globe Artichokes, To Fry (Artichauts Frits) Cooked globe artichokes. Frying batter. Seasoning. Allow some cooked artichokes to become quite cold, then cut them in quarters or slices, carefully removing any of the “ choke.” Season the pieces with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice, dip them into frying batter (see Recipe 1861) and fry in boiling fat until a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve piled up on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley. 391. Stuffed Artichokes (Artichauts Farcis) 6 globe artichokes. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 3 gills stock. Seasoning. Stuffing. 3 table-sps. of cooked chicken. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. cooked ham. 1 tea-sp. parsley. 3 or 4 mushrooms. 1 egg or 1 table-sp. white sauce. Prepare the artichokes as in Recipe 389, and boil them about | hour. Then drain and carefully re- move all the “ choke ” with a spoon. To Make the Stuffing.—Chop the chicken and ham finely and mix them in a basin with the mushrooms and parsley also finely chopped, season to taste and bind together with beaten egg, or a little good white sauce. Fill up the centres of the artichokes with this stuffing and tie them round with a piece of string or tape. Then dip them in salad oil so that every part is moistened and stand them on a baking tin. Pour the stock round and bake in a moderate oven for | hour, basting occasionally. When ready, lift the artichokes on to a hot dish and remove the string. Reduce the stock left in the baking tin, removing all grease from the top and adding more seasoning if necessary, and strain round the arti- chokes. Note.—The stuffing may be varied according to individual taste and materials at command. A thin tomato or brown sauce may be used instead of the stock, and a little white wine may be added. Time to cook, 1 hour in all. 392. Artichoke Bottoms, To "Prepare (Fonds d’Artichauts) Although these can be prepared from the fresh globe artichokes, those that are canned or bottled are more generally used. If the fresh artichokes are used, boil them accord- ing to directions given in Recipe 389, then remove all the leaves and choke, leaving only the soft round piece at the bottom. Trim these neatly and