323 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS 1371. Poached Eggs with Spinach ((Eufs Poch6s aux Epinards) Prepare and cook the spinach according to Recipe 569, and arrange it in a hot dish. Poach the number of eggs required, make little hollows in the spinach, and slip the eggs neatly in. Garnish with croutons of fried bread. 1372. Poached Eggs a l’Americaine ((Eufs Poches A l’Americaine) 4 or 5 eggs. | lb. bacon. 1 gill tomato sauce. Poach the eggs and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Pour the tomato sauce round, and garnish with the bacon cut in thin slices and broiled. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 1373. Eggs a l’Egyptienne ((Eufs Froids & l’Egyptienne) Poached eggs. I Cooked ham. Mayonnaise sauce. | Cucumber. Poach the required number of eggs, drain them, allow them to become cold, and trim them neatly ; or it is better to cook the eggs in a poacher, in order to keep them a good shape. Take the same number of china or natural scallop shells, and put Scallop Shell a layer of thinly-sliced cucumber at the foot of each. Over this sprinkle a little finely-chopped ham, and then lay a poached egg on the top. Mask the eggs with thick mayonnaise sauce, gar- nish round with a border of cucumber, and put a little more of the ham in the centre. meat or aspic jelly chopped, and some in a liquid condition. Take four or five small china dishes (cocottes), according to the number of the eggs. Put at the bottom of each a little chopped jelly, and then an egg on the top. Mask the eggs with a spoonful of the sauce, put the puree of foie gras into a forcing bag with a small pipe, and force a little round the edge of each, without covering the centre. Decorate the centre with two or three pieces of pistachio nut or leaves of tarragon, pour over a little liquid jelly, and put the eggs in a cool place to set. Serve cold. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1376. Eggs k la Pi6montaise (CEufs a la Piemontaise) 4 or 5 eggs. Rice k la Piemontaise. Prepare some rice a la Piemontaise as directed in Recipe 1597, and make of it a neat bed on a hot dish. Poach the eggs and place them on the top. Serve very hot. Tomato sauce may be poured round. Probable cost, Is. 1377. Poached Eggs a la Virginia (CEufs a la Virginia) 6 eggs. 6 potato cakes. 2 oz. picked shrimps. 1 gill white sauce. 2 table - sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. Prepare the potato cakes as directed in Recipe 547, making them oval in shape and hollow in the centre. Brush them over with yolk of egg, and brown them in the oven. Make some good white sauce, and rather thick. Add sufficient to the shrimps to bind them together, and season with a squeeze of lemon juice, pepper, and salt if necessary. Put a spoonful of this shrimp mixture into the hollow in each potato cake. Place a nicely poached egg on the top of each, and' mask with a little sauce. Sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown quickly in the oven. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1374. Eggs a la Florentine (CEufs a la Florentine) 5 eggs. Spinach puree. £ pt. cheese sauce. Prepare some spinach puree according to Recipe 569, and put a bed of it on a hot entree dish. Poach the eggs, and arrange them neatly on the top. Mask with cheese sauce (Sauce Mo may. Recipe 682), sprinkle with grated cheese, and brown quickly in the oven or under the gas grill. Probable cost. Is. VARIATIONS OF EGGS SUR LE PLAT This dish can be varied in many ways by simply sprinkling some savoury mixture over the dish before breaking in the eggs, such as finely chopped herbs, chives, mushrooms, ham, tongue, &c., or by using a little good gravy, sauce, or cream along with the eggs. The following recipes will give some ideas as to how to make this simple dish a more tasty one. 1375. Poached Eggs & la Jeannette (CEufs Poch6s A la Jeannette) , 4 or 5 poached eggs. 2 table-sps. preserved foie gras. | oz. butter. 2 table-sps. rich white sauce. Some meat jelly. Poach the eggs carefully, put them into cold water, and when cold dry them in a cloth and trim them neatly. Rub the foie gras through a sieve, and mix it with a little softened butter. Have ready a little good white sauce, well seasoned and mixed with yolk of egg or cream ; also a little good 1378. Eggs in Bread Sauce 4 eggs. I 2 table-sps.grated cheese h pt. bread sauce. I Salt. Pepper. Make the bread sauce according tc Recipe 678, and pour it hot into a fireproof dish. Slip into it the four eggs without breaking them, sprinkle cheese over the top, and bake in the oven about 10 minutes. Allow time to cook the eggs and to brown the cheese. Note.—'The cheese may be omitted and browned bread-crumbs used in its place. Probable cost, 8d.