84 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD When the fish is ready, lift it carefully with a fish slice on to a hot dish. Heat J pint well-made tomato sauce (Recipe 705) in a saucepan, add any liquid left on the baking tin to it, and strain over the fish, coating it veil. Decorate with hard- boiled egg, either cut in pieces, or the white chopped separately and the yolk rubbed through a sieve. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 189. Cod, Stuffed and Baked (Cabillaud Farci au Four) 14 to 2 lbs. cod. Stuffing. 2" oz. butter or drip- 1 table-sp. browned ping. bread-crumbs. A piece from the thick end of cod is best for this dish, where there is the flap to enclose the stuffing. If a piece nearer the tail is used, the bone must be removed in order to make an opening. Cleanse and dry the fish and make the stuffing according Stuffed and Baked Cod to directions given in Recipe 1266. Melt the butter or dripping in a deep baking tin, and place the fish on this. Then put in the stuffing, folding the flaps round it and fixing them in position with a skewer, or if it is a piece without the flap, fill up the hole in the centre with the stuffing. Brush the fish over with some of the melted fat, and sprinkle the browned bread-crumbs over the top. Bake in a moderate oven, basting the fish occasionally to prevent it becoming dry. When ready, lift it carefully with a fish slice on to a hot dish, and re- move the skewer and also the skin, if this can be done without spoiling the appearance of the fish. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Parsley, anchovy, tomato, or any other suitable sauce may be poured round or served separately. Time to bake, \ to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 190. Cod’s Roe with Parsley Sauce (Laitance de Cabillaud a la Maitre d’Hotel) 1 small cod’s roe. 2 or 3 gills parsley sauce. Salt, vinegar. Wash the roe in cold water, but do not let it soak, then tie it up in a piece of muslin to prevent it breaking. Put it into a fish kettle of slowly boiling water, salted in the proportion of 1 desert- spoonful to 1 quart of water, and add a few drops of vinegar. If no fish kettle is available the roe may be put into an ordinary stewpan with a plate at the bottom. The water should just cover the roe. Simmer slowly from 4 to f- of an hour according to size and thickness. When ready, lift the roe out, let the water drain well from it, and cool slightly. Then remove the skin and cut the roe in slices. Arrange these neatly on a greased fireproof dish, and pour sufficient parsley sauce over to completely cover the roe. Place the dish in the oven for a few minutes until the contents are well heated, and serve in the same dish garnished with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast. Note.—Tomato, anchovy, oyster, shrimp, or any other suitable sauce may be used instead of parsley sauce. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 191. Cod’s Roe, Fried (Laitances de Cabillaud Frites) 1 cod’s roe. | A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. I Salt, pepper. Boil the roe according to directions given in Recipe 190, and let it become quite cold. Then cut it in slices about | inch thick, using a very sharp knife. Dip these in a little flour seasoned with pepper and salt, then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until a nice brown colour. Serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. A little tomato sauce may be served separ- ately, alsc thin brown bread and butter. Notes.—A simpler method of preparing the roe is to flour it only, and to fry in a small quantity of fat in a frying pan. The roe may be made neater by removing the skin and cutting the slices into shape with a cutter before egging and bread-crumb- ing them. The trimmings can be scalloped, or used up for a savoury. 192. Cod Sounds with Parsley Sauce (Nau de Morue Sauce Maitre d’Hotel) 1 lb. cod sounds. I 4 pt. parsley sauce. Milk and water. I Croutons fried bread. Cod sounds, which are the air or swimming bladders of the fish, are generally bought salted. They should be soaked for several hours before being used. Rinse them in fresh cold water and put them into a saucepan with milk and water to cover. Simmer slowly till tender, from £ to £ of an horn-. Then drain and cut the sounds in pieces about 2 inches square. Arrange these neatly on a fireproof dish, and cover completely with the sauce. Put in the oven a few minutes until thoroughly hot, garnish with some fried croutons of bread and serve at once. Notes.—Any other suitable sauce may be used instead of parsley sauce, such as egg, tomato, bechamel, piquante sauce, &c. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 193. Salt Cod, To Prepare and Boil (Morue Salee) Salt cod requires to be well soaked and very carefully boiled to make it really palatable. In this country it is served specially during Lent and on Good Friday in particular. Wash the fish and let it soak for 12 hours at least in lukewarm water, changing the water once or twice. When suffi- ciently fresh, put it into a saucepan with warm water, or preferably milk and water, to cover it, bring slowly to the boil, skim if necessary, and then simmer slowly about 1 hour. If cooked too quickly the fish will become tough and leathery. The milk