367 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES jam put at the bottom of the tartlets before pouring in the rice mixture. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, \d. each. 1571. Jam Puffs or Turnovers Pastry. [ White of egg. Jam. | Castor sugar. Almost, any pastry may be used for these, or scraps of the same. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and with a round cutter 4 or 5 inches in diameter stamp out rounds. Wet half-way round the edges of these with a little cold water, and put a small portion of jam in the centre of each. Double over and press the edges well together, and mark round with the end of a small tea-spoon. Place the puffs on a greased or wetted baking tin, brush them over with some beaten white of egg or water, and dredge with sugar. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is cooked and nicely browned. When ready, dredge again with sugar, and serve hot or cold. Notes.—These may be made triangular in shape by cutting the pastry in squares instead of rounds and doubling the pieces over from corner to corner, or round by putting one small round on the top of another with the jam between. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, |d. to Id. each. 1572. Lemon Curd for Cheese Cakes J lb. castor sugar. 3 oz. butter. 2 lemons. 2 finger biscuits or 2 table - sps. sponge- cake crumbs. 3 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. Sieve the sugar on to a plate, grate the lemon rind on the top of it, and work the two together with the knife until of a uniform yellow colour. Then put this sugar into a saucepan with the butter and eggs slightly beaten, and the finger biscuits made into crumbs. Stir all gently over a slow fire until the mixture thickens and becomes like honey. Then pour into jars, and cover tightly with parch- ment paper. If stored in a cool place, this will keep for some time. Note.—This mixture is used instead of jam for tartlets or an open tart. Probable cost, lOd. 1573, Lemon Cheese Cakes, 1 Lemon curd. Pastry. Line some patty tins with pastry and bake them in the oven. When cooked, fill them with lemon curd and return them to the oven to warm through, or they may be served cold. Probable cost, \d. to Id. each according to size and the kind of pastry used. Grate the rind off the lemon on to the top of the sugar, and mix the two together until of a uniform yellow colour. Add this lemon sugar to the butter, and mix it well in. Then add the eggs and flour by degrees, and beat until the mixture looks light and full of air-bubbles. Stir in the baking powder at the last. Put a spoonful of this mixture into each lined patty tin, and bake them in a good moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. When ready, turn the cheese cakes out of the tins, sprinkle them with sugar, and serve hot or cold. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. 1575. Lemon Cones \ lb. castor sugar. I 3 whites of eggs. 2 lemons. | Short crust. Roll out some short crust to about an eighth of an inch in thickness and cut out rounds about 3 inches in diameter. Lay these on a greased baking sheet and prick them with a fork. Then grate the rind off the lemons and rub it into the sugar. Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and add to them the lemon sugar. Pile this lemon meringue mixture on the top of the rounds of pastry in the form of a pyramid, dredge with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is cooked and the meringue lightly browned. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 12 to 15 cones. Probable cost, lOd. 1576. Macaroon Cheese Cakes 6 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. sweet almonds (ground). 3 to 4 whites of eggs. A squeeze of lemon juice or 1 tea-sp. orange flower water. Jam. Pastry. Line about a dozen patty tins with pastry, but do not bake them (see p. 362). Then prepare the mixture for filling. Sieve the sugar into a basin, and add the ground almonds to it, with a good squeeze of lemon, or the orange flower water. Then add three to four whites of eggs, according to size, and beat them with a wooden spoon or spatula. The mixture must be Macaroon Cheese Cakes 1574. Lemon Cheese Cakes, 2 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar.' 1 lemon. \ tea-sp. baking powder. Short crust. Line about a dozen small patty tins with short crust, but do not bake them. Then make the mixture. Put the butter into a warm basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft creamy consistency. of a nice creamy consistency. Put a little jam at the foot of each pastry case and fill up with tne almond mixture. Lay two thin strips of pastry across the top, and dredge the tartlets with sugar, which will give them a cracked appearance when baked. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is cooked and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Time to bake, about J hour. Probable cost, 1 d. each.