59 STOCKS AND SOUPS Note.—If preferred, the macaroni may be cut in small pieces and served in the soup instead of being sieved. Time to cook, 1| hours. Probable cost, 9ci. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 92. Oatmeal Soup, 1 2 cupfuls of oatmeal porridge. 2 pts. milk. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. Pepper. 1 yolk of egg. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and let it cook slowly by the side of the fire without browning. Then add the porridge, milk, and seasoning, and stir occasionally until boiling. Simmer until smooth and then sieve. Reheat the soup and pour into a hot soup tureen over the yolk of egg. Notes.—If more convenient, half stock and .half milk may be used for making the soup. A little cooked and chopped ham may be added after sieving. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 93. Oatmeal Soup, 2 (Soupe au Gruau) 2 oz. coarse oatmeal. 2 pts. meat boilings. 1 table-sp. butter or beef dripping. 3 or 4 leeks. | pt. milk. 1 or 2 sticks celery. Seasoning. The water in which a piece of meat has been boiled will do very well for making this soup, but it must not be too salt. Put the required quantity into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Sprinkle in the oatmeal, in the same way as for porridge, and simmer from 20 to 30 minutes, stirring occa- sionally. Now add the leeks, carefully prepared (Recipe 504) and cut in thin slices, using some of the green, also add the celery cut in shreds, and the dripping or butter. Allow the soup to cook for about an hour longer. Season to taste and add the milk at the last. Note.—If the soup becomes too thick while cook- ing, add more meat boilings or water. Probable cost, 9d. Quantity, 2| pints. 94. Rice Soup (Potage au Riz) £ teacupful rice. 1 oz. butter or beef dripping. 1| pts. water or meat boilings, b pt. milk. 1 small onion. 1 table-sp. bread crumbs 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 bay-leaf. White pepper and salt. Wash the rice well in several waters, then put it into a saucepan with the 1$ pints water or meat boilings and the butter or dripping. Bring to the boil, and add the onion finely chopped and the bay- leaf. Boil for half an hour or until the rice is soft, then add the milk and bread crumbs, and cook for 10 minutes longer. If the soup becomes too thick, more liquid must be added. Season to taste, lift out the bay-leaf and add the chopped parsley just before serving. Note.—The water in which a piece of mutton or a fowl has been boiled is very good for making this soup. Time to cook, f- to 1 hour. Probable cost, 7d. to 9d. Quantity, 2 pints. 95. Rice and Tomato Soup (Potage de Rlz aux Tomates) £ teacupful of rice. b tin of tomatoes or 4 or 5 fresh tomatoes. 2 pts. light stock. 1 oz. beef dripping or bacon fat. 1 red carrot. 1 onion. Seasoning. Melt the fat in a saucepan, put into it the onion and carrot prepared and cut in thin slices, and cook for a few minutes without browning. Then add the rice well washed and the tomatoes. If fresh tomatoes are used they should be wiped and cut in pieces. Simmer the soup until the rice and vege- tables are tender—about 1 hour—stirring it occa- sionally and removing any scum that rises. When ready, rub it through a wire sieve or fine colander, and then return to the saucepan to reheat. Cook for a few minutes longer and add seasoning to taste. A cupful of hot milk added at the last would be an improvement. Serve with crofitons of fried or toasted bread. Time to cook, l£ hours. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 96. Sago Soup (Potage au Sagou) 1 qt. well-flavoured I 2 oz. small sago. stock. | £ pt. milk. Seasoning. Wash the sago and put it into a saucepan with the stock. Bring to the boil, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to simmer until the sago is quite clear (from 20 to 30 minutes), the time will depend on the kind of sago used. Add the milk, season to taste, and bring to the boil again. Serve with crofitons of fried bread or cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—If the fine prepared sago (sold in packets) is used it will not require washing, but may be sprinkled into the stock when boiling. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 97. Semolina Soup (Potage a la Semoule) 1 qt. well-flavoured I 2 oz. semolina. stock. ' | Pepper and salt. Put the stock into a saucepan, and bring to the boil over the fire. Skim if necessary. Hold the semolina in a piece of paper, and sprinkle it into the boiling liquid, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly for half an hour. Season to taste, and serve. Note.—A little milk may be added if liked, or a beaten egg may be put into the soup tureen and the hot soup poured gradually on to it. Time to cook, £ to £■ hour. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 98. Semolina and Sorrel Soup Make in the same way as above, adding a few sorrel leaves, which have been freed from their stems, and either finely shred or chopped not too finely. 99. Tapioca Soup (Potage au Tapioca) 1 qt. good stock or beef I 1 table-sp. fine tapioca. broth. Remove all grease from the stock or broth, put it into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Then