527 INVALID COOKERY This section contains recipes for dishes suitable for the sick and convalescent. In addition to these, many other recipes in other parts of the book may be used for the sick-room, although in some cases they may require a little modification to make them suitable for special requirements. When preparing food for real invalids, the object aimed at must be to give nourishment combined with the greatest simplicity, and in a form suited to the digestive powers of the patient. A FEW HINTS ON INVALID COOKERY When there are doctor’s orders regarding the food, these must be faithfully carried out. See that all food given is the very best of its kind, and not stale nor tainted in any way. Pay particular regard to cleanliness in its pre- paration. Make nothing in large quantities. The seasoning should, as a rule, be of the very simplest, and should be used sparingly. The method of cooking should also be of the simplest. Never cook or prepare the food within sight of the patient. Any tasting should be done out of the sick- room. Serve the food punctually at the hour expected. Offer all food in small quantities, and as daintily as possible. Let all hot dishes be really hot and cold dishes cold; lukewarm food is, as a rule, very unpalatable. Try to vary the food, even although it may only be in the manner of serving it. Do not consult the patient about his meal, but give, when possible, what will be liked, and let it come as a surprise. Remove all dishes and untouched food from the sick-room as soon as finished with. Do not keep food in the sick-room unless the invalid is left alone and likely to require it. Always have something in readiness, such as Soup or jelly, or a cooling drink. PART I INVALID SOUPS AND MEAT JELLIES INTRODUCTORY Meat soups for invalids should always be made from fresh meat, and not from stock drawn from the general stock-pot. As a rule they are better made the day before they are wanted, as this allows time for the fat to rise to the surface and be easily removed. Beef-tea and other meat teas are an exception to this rule, and should be made fresh. In the following recipes very little, if any, vege- table flavouring is given, but this can easily be added if desired. Clear soups, meat teas, and broths are gener- ally considered more digestible than thickened soups and purees, and if well made they have wonderfully restorative qualities. Soups contain- ing eggs, milk, or cream also contain nourishment in a very digestible form. . Care must be taken to serve the soup very hot and free from grease. A covered cup or soup- basin is better for the purpose than a plate, and, Covered Cup for Soup failing that, a well-heated cup and saucer should be used. This latter must not be filled too full, and none of the liquid must be spilt in the saucer. Some well-made toast cut in fingers or dice, a neat piece of bread, a rusk, or a few dry biscuits should be served with the soup. 2490. Beef-Tea, 1 | lb. beef. § pt. cold water. A little salt. Choose lean, juicy beef for the purpose. It ought to be freshly killed. A piece from the but-