COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 449 2027. A Simple Trifle 4 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. raspberry jam. 1 gill milk or fruit syrup. 3 gills custard. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. 1 oz. sweet almonds. Slice the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and lay them in a glass dish. Pour the gill of milk or fruit syrup over them, and let them soak. Then make about 3 gills of fairly thick custard, either with eggs and milk thickened with a very little cornflour, or with custard powder. Sweeten and flavour it to taste, and when cold pour it over the sponge cakes. Blanch the almonds, cut them in strips, and stick them over the top. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 2028. A Richer Trifle 6 or 8 sponge cakes (Id.) J doz. macaroon bis- cuits. } lb. ratafias. Raspberry or apricot jam. 2 or 3 glasses sherry. \ glass brandy. | lb. sweet almonds. 3 gills good custard. 3 or 4 gills double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Decorations. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and then cut them in slices about an inch thick. Lay these pieces at the bottom of a glass dish, mixing with them the macaroons broken in pieces, about half the ratafia biscuits, and half the almonds blanched and shred. Pour the sherry and brandy over, and let all soak for J hour. Meanwhile make a good custard (see Recipe 794). Sweeten and flavour it to taste, let it cool, and then pour it over the sponge cakes, &c. A short time before serving, whip the cream until thick, adding to it, if wished, 1 or 2 whites of eggs. Sweeten and flavour, and pile this on the top of the trifle. It will look better if it is put through a forcing bag with a large rose pipe. Now decorate the trifle prettily with the remainder of the ratafias and almonds, and some pieces of bright-coloured pre- served fruits, or pistachio nuts. The decoration is very much a matter of taste, and can be more or less elaborate according to fancy. Small fancy biscuits or fancy sweets may be used, or the plain ratafia biscuits may be piped prettily with coloured icing, or spun sugar will make a very light and dainty decoration. Sufficient for 8 or 10 persons. Provable cost, 4s. or 5s. the sides, and sprinkle with chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 2030. Vanilla Cream (Creme a la Vanille) \ pt. double cream. H oz. sugar. | pt. custard. Custard. Vanilla flavouring. 3 yolks of eggs. § oz. sheet gelatine. 1 white of egg. 2 table-sps. water. £ pt. of milk. Decorations.—A little lemon jelly, a few glace cherries. Ornament a lj-pint mould with the above decorations, and put it aside to set (see p. 432). (Any preserved fruit, that will make a pretty contrast to the pale colour of the cream, may be used for decorating, or the jelly may be coloured pink with a little carmine or cochineal.) To Prepare the Cream.—First make the custard. Pour the milk into a saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water, and bring it almost to the boil. Put the yolks and white of egg into a basin with the sugar, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. Pour the hot milk gradually on to them, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the custard begins to thicken. Then strain into a basin. Cut the gelatine into pieces with a pair of scissors, put it into a small saucepan with the water, and stir over the fire, letting it dissolve slowly. Then strain into the custard, being careful not to lose any, and mix well. Put the cream into a separate basin, whip it until thick, add the sugar, and flavour with vanilla essence. When the custard has cooled a little, add the cream to it, and stir occasionally until the mixture shows signs of setting. Then pour into the pre- pared mould, and set aside in a cool place or on ice until cold and firm. WTien wanted, turn out on a glass or china dish, and decorate with pre- served fruits or chopped jelly. A lace-edged paper may, if liked, be put on the dish first. Notes.—This is an example of a custard cream, and many other creams with different flavourings may be made in the same way. A smaller pro- portion of cream to custard may be used if wished. Vanilla pod may be used instead of essence for flavouring; it should be infused in the milk for a short time before making the custard. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. Qd. 2029. Welsh Trifle A sixpenny sponge cake. 2 glasses sherry. | pt. double cream. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. 1 cupful clear red jelly. 1 A few pistachio nuts. Scoop out the centre from the sponge cake and place it on a glass dish. Pour over the wine and let it soak. Meanwhile, whip the cream until thick, and add the sugar and flavouring. Fill the centre of the sponge cake with this, making it level on the top. Then have the red jelly in a liquid condition and whip it until stiff and frothy. Pile this on the top of the trifle, put any remaining cream round 2031. Wafer Cream Bars Wafer biscuits. Strawberry or other cream mixture. Take a small wafer biscuit box, and line it very smoothly with grease-proof or wax paper. Then line the bottom of it with the narrow wafer biscuits, either white or pink, and brush over the upper surface with beaten white of egg. Make a straw- berry cream mixture as directed on p. 448 (half quantities), and when it is in a setting condition pour it into the lined box. Brush the top lightly over with white of egg, and cover with another layer of wafer biscuits. Set aside in a cool place. When the cream is firm, turn it out of the box, and carefully remove the paper. Then take a 2 F