248 COLD MEAT REDRESSED This branch of cookery is by no means to be despised, as some of our daintiest and most tasty dishes are made from the remains of cooked meat. The reason that made-up dishes are so often looked upon with distrust is that the process of re-heating is carelessly carried out, and the meat is thereby rendered tough and tasteless. It certainly requires a little trouble to re-heat meat nicely, but it is trouble that is well repaid. For serving up little dishes of this kind it would be well worth while to invest in some of the dainty little dishes now on the market, such as fireproof gratin dishes, scallop shells, earthenware casseroles, which can be sent to table, or some prettily shaped moulds, as these will all help to give an air of refine- ment and finish to a rechauffe. The following recipes should give one a fair idea of the variety of ways in which scraps of meat, however small, can be utilised, and a little ingenuity on the part of the cook will soon devise others, or at least variations of the same. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR RE-HEATING MEAT To begin with, the meat must be carefully pre- pared, first cut from the bone and then trimmed in order to free it from all skin, gristle, burnt pieces, or in fact any parts that arc not eatable. The amount of fat that may be left depends very much on the kind of meat and the manner in which it is to be treated. The meat should either be cut in thin slices, in tiny cubes or dice, or minced by putting it through the mincing machine. Then some good sauce or stock will nearly always be required in the re-heating, and, if this is not already at hand, the bones and trimmings should be utilised for the purpose. The bones should be broken small and put with the trimmings into a saucepan with cold water to cover them. Seasoning and small pieces of flavouring vegetable should then be added and the whole allowed to simmer by the side of the fire until all the flavour is extracted. Then strain and use the liquor thus obtained for making a gravy or sauce for the meat. As a rule it will be found an improvement to use a little ham, tongue, or other salted meat along with fresh meat, as it will help to give flavour; 2 oz. salted to \ lb. fresh meat being a very good proportion. The seasoning to be added will de- pend very much on the kind of meat used. For white meats a little white or light-coloured sauce is always suitable, also cream, lemon, white wine, yolks of eggs, &c. For the darker meats and game a more tasty sauce may be used, such as piquante, tomato, or brown, and a little rfed wine and red currant or other sharp jelly may be added where suitable. One very important point to remember in the re-heating of meat is that it must not be allowed to over-cook, as this will only make it woolly and tasteless. This applies specially to meat that is re-heated in a sauce of any kind, as for instance a hash. The sauce should be made and thoroughly cooked to begin with, then the meat, properly prepared, put into it and simply allowed to heat through. The best way to do this is au bain marie, that is, by placing the saucepan containing the meat and sauce in a larger saucepan with hot water round it. By this means the heating process can be carried on without any danger of the meat boiling in the sauce. To Fry In Boiling Fat (Wet Frying) As this method of cooking is so much employed in cold meat cookery, it may be as well to insert it here. French or wet frying means cooking in a large quantity of fat, sufficient to cover the article to be fried. Clarified fat, oil, or lard may be used for the purpose, but butter must never be taken, as it is apt to burn. Clarified beef fat is about the best medium to use, and it is much less expensive than oil. The quantity of fat required will depend on the number and size of the articles to be fried, there must always be sufficient to well cover them. It should be put into a plain iron stewpan, neither tinned nor enamelled, as the great heat of the fat would destroy both these linings. Success in this mode of frying will depend on getting the fat to the right degree of heat. It should be perfectly still. If there are bubbles, they show that the fat contains water, which must pass off by evaporation, before the right degree of heat can be attained. A blue smoky vapour should also be seen rising from the pan; or, the heat may be tested by putting in a small crust of bread; if this frizzles freely, the fat is ready for use. It is always better to let the fat heat slowly, and the saucepan containing it should on no account be placed over an open fire, as many a bad accident has occurred by so doing. As soon as the fat is ready, it should be used at once, or else drawn to the side of the fire to prevent its burning and causing an unpleasant smell. Do not put too many articles into the pan at one time, or they will cool the fat too much; and always bring the fat to boiling point again before putting in a second lot.