33 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD or piece of muslin, if any flies are about. It is always better if it can be used fresh, but when uecessary to keep it for a day or two, sprinkle it liberally with salt, or in hot weather it may be wrapped in a piece of muslin wrung out of vinegar and water. Dried fish should be hung on a rod or hook. Ham and Sides of Bacon.—Hang in muslin bags dusted with pepper or ginger to keep oS the flies. If they are to be kept a long time the bags should be made of calico, or strong brown paper may be used for wrapping them in. To Keep Suet.—If there are any glands or kernels to be seen these should be removed, also any parts which show discoloration, as these very soon be- come tainted and spoil the rest. If the suet has to be kept for several days it is a good plan to bury it in flour. If it is put into the flour-bin it will not impart any flavour to the contents. Bones (for stock).—If unable to use at once, bake them in a sharp oven for a few minutes. Lard. — Keep in a closely - covered crock or basin. Stocks, Soups, and Sauces.—These should be kept in clean earthenware basins, and boiled up every day in summer and every second day in winter. STORING OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES Vegetables.—Although vegetables are at their best when freshly gathered they can, when necessity requires it, be kept for a limited period. Vegetables which are in daily use should be kept in baskets or on a vegetable rack where the air can Vegetable Hack reach them, and put in a cool place—the floor of the larder or cellar is the best. Potatoes alone, carrots, turnips, and parsnips together, and any special vegetables by themselves. Onions, shallots, chives, and garlic are best hung up by strings or in a net bag and kept away from other food. Parsley and mint should be kept with the stalks only in water, and the water must Ije changed every day. Tomatoes should be put on a dish or spread out on a shelf without touching each other. To Store Vegetables.—Sometimes it is necessary to keep vegetables for a longer period, and then greater care must be taken with them. Potatoes whdn bought in large quantities to be stored throughout the winter, should be put in a dry, dark cellar and covered with straw to prevent the frost attacking them. If kept in a bright or damp place they will become soft and withered and begin to sprout. They should be examined frequently ; any that show signs of decay should be removed, and all sprouts and shoots should be rubbed off. In the country potatoes are sometimes stored in a big hole in the ground lined with straw and banked up with sand. Artichokes can be treated in the same way as potatoes. Carrots, Beetroots, and Parsnips may be pre- served by burying them in dry sand or earth in a dark cellar. Turnips should be allowed to lie on the floor of a dark cellar. Vegetable Marrows and Cucumbers will keep for some time if they are hung up by the stalk in a cool situation. Cabbages, if they are sound and firm and cut before the frost touches them, can be preserved for a few weeks if they are spread on a stone floor in the dark. Herbs.—See under Herbs and Condiments. Fruit.—If only bought in small quantities, such fruit as apples, pears, plums, apricots, and oranges should be wiped and spread out on a tray, on the S±| - A Fruit Stand shelves of the store room or larder, or on a special frqit stand. Bananas and grapes should be hung. Softer fruits, such as currants and berries, should only be bopght as required and then used at once. Lemons should be wiped dry and hung up in nets, or if laid on a shelf they should be turned every day. All fruit should be kept in a cool place and out of the sun, unless it is a kind which requires further ripening. When apples have to be stored in large quantities for winter use they should be dry, sound, and not .too ripe. They should be spread out on shelves in a fruit room or in an attic that does not admit too much sunshine. They should not be allowed to touch each other, and any that show signs of decay should at once be removed. Rough-skinned apples, such as russets, keep best. Pears, if not ripe, may be kept in the same way or hung up by the stalks. c