26 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD tities, although moist sugar must be watched, as it sometimes becomes infected with sugar mite. Cane sugar is the best for all preserving purposes; jams made with it will keep longer and have a better colour than if beet sugar were used. Beetroot sugar is, however, quite good for other sweetening purposes. Soap improves with keeping, and may safely be ordered in large quantities. The drier it is, the less it will waste when used. There are many different kinds—plain yellow soap, mottled soap, paraffin soap, Sunlight soap, and carbolic soap are all useful for household purposes ; also the soft soap, which should be bought in large tins and given out as required. Candles will also improve with keeping. Tea should be bought in moderate quantities. It should be well twisted and the leaves not too small. The special blend to use is entirely a matter of taste. China tea is considered the most delicate and the best suited to invalids and those of weak digestion, but the flavour is not liked by all. A mixture of China and Indian tea makes a very good blend for ordinary use. Coffee should be bought freshly roasted and ground at home, or else bought in very small quantities as required; it very soon loses its flavour with keeping. Some people roast it at home as well, but this is rather a troublesome process and one which requires very great care and attention. Spices, like coffee, should be bought in small quantities, as they are apt to deteriorate. This applies to all strong-smelling and strong-tasting articles. Dried Fruits will keep well in a good store room, and should be bought in the autumn when the new fruit comes in. Figs, however, must be carefully watched, as they often become infected with small maggots. Tinned Goods.—Choose tins that are in perfect condition and free from rust. There should be no bulges, which are a sign of fermentation ; the tops and bottoms should be rather concave. Foods preserved in earthenware or glass jars are better and safer than tinned ones, but they generally cost more money. Cheese.—The choice of cheese is almost entirely a matter of taste. For a moderately priced cheese some of the American cheeses, similar to our Cheddar cheeses, are to be recommended, also the round Dutch cheeses. In choosing such cheeses as Stilton, Gorgonzola, and Roquefort, select one that combines moisture with green mould. Cream cheeses must always be bought very fresh and used at once. Butter must always be chosen by taste, and cheap inferior butter avoided. Better far to use good dripping, lard, or margarine for cooking purposes than questionable butter. Good salt butter will keep well in an airy larder, but fresh butter must be ordered as required. Eggs, if fresh, are clear when held up to the light; if stale there is a dark spot or cloudy-looking part. They may be tested by putting them in salt and water—1 ounce salt to 1 pint water ; eggs that float in this are not good. They should not be too light, and when shaken the inside should not float about. When eggs are cheap it is sometimes a good plan to buy in a large quantity and store them for the winter (see p. 32). A MONTHLY CALENDAR OF FOOD Although the following calendar has been com- piled as carefully as possible, it can only be taken as a guide, there are so many circumstances which tend to vary the season and sale of different articles of food. In the case of fish, for instance, it will be found that the season varies somewhat in different dis- tricts, and the laws as regards salmon and other fishing are not the same in all parts of the country (see Note, p. 29). Then, again, some kinds of fish are obtainable all the year round, and the calendar may only state when they are at their best and cheapest. As far as vegetables and fruit are concerned the vagaries of weather and climate must be taken into consideration, and the season will vary somewhat according to whether a district is in a mild or sheltered situation, or otherwise. For those who live within touch of the London amd other large markets it would almost seem as if some kinds of food were never out of season. So much is now imported from foreign countries, as well as from the colonies, that as soon as the home products are finished they are supplemented by those from other parts. There are others, however, who are not so highly favoured, and for those it is hoped that the following will be a help in making up their daily bill of fare : JANUARY Meat Beef, mutton, house lamb, pork, veal, venison. Game and Poultry Capons, capercailzie, chickens, ducks, fowls, geese, hares, landrails, larks, partridges, pheasant, pigeons, pintail, plover, ptarmigan, pullets, quails, rabbits, snipe, teal, turkeys, wild-fowl, widgeon, woodcock. Fish Barbel, bream, brill, carp, cod, dory, eels, floun- ders, gurnet, haddock, hake, halibut, herring, ling, mackerel, perch, pike, plaice, red mullet, salmon (Dutch and Canadian), skate, smelts, soles, sprats, tench, turbot, whiting. Crabs, crayfish, lobsters, mussels, oysters, scallops, shrimps. Vegetables Artichokes (globe, Japanese, and Jerusalem), beetroot, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, car- doons, carrots, celeriac, celery, chervil, chicory, cress, cucumber (forced), endive, horse-radish, leeks, lettuce, mushrooms (cultivated), onions, parsnips, potatoes, radishes, salsify, savoys, Scotch kale, winter spinach, tomatoes, turnips- turnip tops. Fruit Apples, bananas, cranberries, grapes, lemons, limes, oranges, pears, pine-apples, rhubarb (forced), nuts (almonds, Brazil, chestnuts, cobs, walnuts, &c.).