PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 353 in the top with a skewer, and brush them over with beaten egg. Place them on a baking tin and bake in a good oven, until the pastry is well cooked and browned, and the meat feels tender when tested with a skewer. Note.—A little finely chopped onion or a few chopped mushrooms may be added if liked. Other kinds of meat with suitable flavourings may be used in the same way. Time to bake, J to f hour. Probable cost, Is. 1507. Chicken and Ham Patties (BouehGes de Voiaille) Lemon rind. A pinch of ground mace. White pepper, salt. Pastry cases. | lb. cooked chicken. 2 oz. cooked ham. 2 table-sps. white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 tea-sp. parsley. To Make the Mixture.—Weigh the chicken and ham free from skin and bone, and cut them in small pieces or chop them finely. Put them into a small saucepan with the white sauce, and heat over the fire. Add the chopped parsley and season to taste with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind and a pinch of ground mace or nutmeg. Thin Chicken and Ham Patties down to a proper consistency with the cream, and make thoroughly hot before using. To Make the Patties.—Make the pastry cases according to directions given on p. 352, first or second method, and when baked, fill them with the mixture. Put on the lids of pastry, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Note.—Tongue may be used instead of ham. Some chopped mushroom or truffle may be added to the mixture. such as chopped onion, mushrooms, pickles, tomato, lemon rind, or spices. To Make the Patties.—Make some dripping crust according to directions given in Recipe 1440, and grease six or eight patty tins. Roll out the pastry rather thinly, and cut out double the number of rounds there are of tins. Line the tins neatly with the pastry, pricking it well at the foot, and fill up with the meat mixture. Then wet round the edge of the pastry lining the tins and press the other rounds on the top. Trim and mark round the edges neatly, and make a little hole in the top with a skewer. Brush over with milk or beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—A better pastry may be used for these if wished. Time to bake, 4 hour. Sufficient for 6 to 8 patties. 1509. Fish Patties 1 cupful cooked fish. I Seasoning, 2 or 3 table-sps. sauce. | Pastry. Almost any kind of fish may be used for these or a mixture of two kinds together. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and break it up in small flakes. Moisten it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls good fistr sauce, such as parsley, anchovy, or egg sauce, and add more seasoning if necessary. Then make some patties with this mixture and any nice pastry, and according to directions given above. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is brown and thoroughly cooked. Note.—The addition of a few oysters, shrimps, or mussels would be an improvement to these patties. 1510. Ham Patties Pastry cases. 2 table-sps. cooked rice or macaroni. Mixture Chopped parsley. 0 oz. cooked ham. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. brown sauce 1 hard-boiled egg. Choose the ham with a fair amount of fat, and chop it finely. Chop also the hard-boiled egg. Heat the brown sauce and add to it the ham, egg, about a dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a little cooked rice or cooked macaroni cut in small pieces. Season with pepper, mustard, and salt if necessary. Make all thoroughly hot, and use this mixture for filling pastry cases. Note.—Instead of the rice or macaroni, some cooked celery or cooked mushrooms may be mixed with the ham. 1508. Cold Meat Patties 4 lb. cooked meat. 2 oz. ham or tongue. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. ketchup or Worcester sauce. A little stock. Dripping crust. To Prepare the Meat.—Trim the meat free from all akin, gristle, and superfluous fat, and cut it into tiny dice. Prepare the ham or tongue in the same way and mix it with the meat. Season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the chopped parsley, and moisten with the ketchup or Worcester sauce and a little stock or gravy. Other flavouring may be added according to taste and the kind of meat used, 1511. Lobster Patties (BouchSes de Homard) Make in the same way as Oyster Patties, using 1 tea-cupful of chopped lobster meat instead of the oysters, and fish stock or milk instead of the oyster liquor. A little anchovy essence and a few chopped mushrooms may be added. 1512. Mushroom Patties (Bouchees de Champignons) 4 lb. mushrooms. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Small patty cases, 2 table-sps. brown sauce Prepare the mushrooms, wash them, and cut them in dice. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, z