COOKERY FOR EVERY. HOUSEHOLD 488 Now scoop out the centre of the pudding, leaving a good hollow, and fill this with a well-frozen ice- cream mixture. Put on the top slice again, pour the hot sauce (Recipe 774 or 783) over, decorate with a sprinkling of pistachio nuts or pieces of pre- served fruits, and serve at once. Notes.—Many different puddings can be made in this way by simply varying the ice cream and the sauce. Small sponge puddings or castle puddings may be used instead of the cabinet pudding. A pudding of this , kind is always a novelty, and it is a cause of wonderment to find a frozen mixture inside a hot. It is a good plan to add 1 or 2 sheets of gelatine to the inside mixture before freezing it; it will hold together longer. Sufficient for 8 to 10 persons. 2230. Pouding en Surprise, 2 Another method of making an iced pudding en surprise is to freeze any good ice-cream mixture in a plain and rather flattish mould. It should be frozen if anything a little too hard. A few minutes before the pudding is wanted, have ready some meringue mixture, and put it into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe at the end of it. Turn tho pudding out of its mould, and force out the mer- ingue mixture over it, covering it entirely. Dredge with sugar, place the pudding in theoven,and brown the meringue quickly; then serve at once. A cold mousseline or liqueur sauce may be poured round the pudding or served separately. 2232. Mousse au Chocolat 3 oz. chocolate. | gill milk. 4 yolks and 2 whole eggs. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Vanilla essence. 3 table-sps. whipped cream. First break up the chocolate, put it into a small saucepan with the milk, and melt over the fire. Stir until a smooth, thick batter is formed and then cool slightly. Put the eggs (yolks and whites) into a basin with the sugar and a little vanilla essence, whip them a little, and add the chocolate. Now stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and whisk over the fire until the mixture is warm and thick, and begins to hang on the end of the whisk. The basin should not be kept flat on the Ean, but should be tilted slightly, and care should e taken that the mixture does not begin to cook on the bottom. It is important, also, that the whisking be done in one direction, the motion should not be reversed. When ready, remove the basin to the table and continue the whisking until the mixture is cold. It may be cooled down gradually on ice, but should not be suddenly chilled. Then add the whipped cream, stirring it in lightly. Mould and freeze at least 3 hours. Turn out when required, and serve sprinkled with chopped pis- tachio nuts or with a good sauce poured over it. A light covering of spun sugar would also make a pretty finish. Sufficient for 6 persons. 2231. Melon en Surprise Vanilla cream ice. Strawberry water ice. Take a melon-shaped mould, rinse it with water, and stand on ice to become thoroughly cold. Make some vanilla cream ice (Recipe 2217) and line the mould with it to about 1 inch in thickness, keeping it standing on the ice all the time. Fill up the centre with strawberry water ice, which has been flavoured with a little liqueur, then close the mould and freeze at least 3 hours. Freeze Melon en Surprise also an ice border (see p. 486), and, when ready, turn out the border first, and place it on a dish with a sheet of cotton-wool and a dessert paper on the top. Then turn out the melon and stand it on the top of the border. Decorate with some sprays of maidenhair fern. Note.—By altering the kinds of ices used this dish may be varied indefinitely. 2233. Iced Tomato Mousse 1 lb. tomatoes. 2 cloves. A small bay-leaf. 2 lumps sugar. Salt. Pepper. J tea-sp. celery salt. 1 tea-sp. tarragon vinegar. | pt. double cream. Wipe the tomatoes, cut them in halves, and squeeze out some of the liquid from the inside. Then cut them in pieces and put them into a sauce- pan with the seasoning. Stir over the fire until reduced to a pulp and then simmer until thick. Now rub this tomato pulp through a hair sieve and let it cool. Whip the cream until thick and add | pint of the tomato puree gradually to it. Pour into a well-chilled ice-cream mould, cover and pack as directed on p. 485, and freeze for 4 hours. Then turn out, cut in slices, and garnish with crisp lettuce. 2234. Iced Fruit Souffle (Souffle Glae6) 1 gill fruit puree. 7 yolks and 2 whites of eggs. 2 or 3 oz. castor sugar. % pt. cream. Colouring. Make the puree by rubbing some tinned or fresh fruit through a hair sieve. The puree should be of a medium consistency, neither too thick nor too thin, and the amount of sugar used will depend on the acidity of the fruit. Put this puree into a basin with the sugar and eggs, also a little colouring and flavouring if wished. Stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and whisk all over the fire until thick and frothy. Then remove the basin to the table, and whisk the mixture until cold. The basin may be stood on ice after a while, but the mixture must not be chilled too suddenly. Pro-