COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 604 2892. Chocolate Almonds and Eaisins, 2 2 oz. stoned raisins. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. brandy. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Castor sugar. Covering chocolate. Chop the almonds and raisins rather finely or put them through the mincing machine. Add to them the lemon juice and brandy, and enough castor sugar to make a stiffish paste. Form this into small balls or other shapes, using a little icing sugar. Place on a papered tray, and set aside until next day to dry. Then cover with chocolate as directed in Recipe 2882. The tops may be deco- rated with a split almond or a small stoned raisin. 2893. Chocolates with Chocolate Centres 1 lb. fondant. 2 or 3 oz. unsweetened chocolate. Vanilla essence. Sugar syrup. Covering chocolate. Grate or shred the chocolate finely, put it into a saucepan with the fondant, a little sugar syrup, and enough vanilla essence to flavour. Warm care- fully over the fire, mixing the fondant and chocolate well together, and using just enough of the syrup t o prevent their burning. Do not make the mi xture too warm, and beat it off the fire now and then. When it looks a nice brown colour and is thoroughly mixed, turn it on to a marble slab, and work with the hands until smooth and of a uniform brown colour. Then roll out, mark in squares with the back of a knife or with a caramel cutter, and, when sufficiently firm, cut with a clean knife. Make the pieces as smooth and tidy looking as possible, place them on a tin lined with paper, and allow them to dry about two hours, but not too long, as they are apt to become hard. Other shapes may be made if preferred. Cover the centres with chocolate in the usual way. 2894. Date and Nut Chocolates 3 oz. stoned dates. 2 oz.walnuts or almonds. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Grated rind of J lemon. Castor sugar. Covering chocolate. Chop the dates and nuts, or put them through a mincer. Add to them the grated lemon rind and juice, and then work in enough fine sugar to make a stiffish paste. Cut in small neat pieces, place on a papered tray, and set them aside to dry. Then cover with chocolate, and decorate with finely- chopped and toasted nuts. 2895. Chocolate Ginger and Pine-apple Cut some glace ginger or pine-apple into con- venient-sized pieces, paring off with a sharp knife the outer coating of sugar. Then coat the pieces with covering chocolate (see Recipe 2882). De- corate with small pieces of ginger or pine-apple on the top of eaoh, or leave the sweets plain with a twist of chocolate on the top. Notes.—Other glace fruits may be used in the same way. Good stem ginger may be used instead of the above. The syrup must first be removed by dipping the pieces in hot water. Then dry them in a clean towel, and leave them for several hours in a warm room to dry. Coat with chocolate in the ordinary way. Or, another way is to chop the ginger finely, mix it with some fondant, flavour with ginger essence, and colour yellow. Mix well, form into centres, and coat with chocolate in the usual way. 2896. Maple Sugar Chocolates Fondant. I Vanilla. Maple sugar. | Covering chocolate. Take some fondant and work into it about one- third its weight of grated maple sugar. Flavour with vanilla, and form into small centres. Leave these to dry for several hours, then coat with covering chocolate, and place on a papered tray to set. 2897. Chocolate Marrons 1 lb. fondant. I Vanilla. 2 oz. marrons glacis. | Covering chocolate. Work the fondant until stiff and pliable, add the vanilla or any other flavouring preferred, and then the marrons glaces finely chopped. Form into small centres and set aside to dry. Then coat with covering chocolate as directed in Recipe 2882. Any scraps of marrons glaces may be used with these, and the chocolates may be decorated with a split pistachio kernel. 2898. Chocolate Marzipan Take a small quantity of marzipan (Recipe 2931) and flavour and colour it to taste. Then make it up in small shapes, rounds, ovals, &c., according as fancy dictates. Place these on a papered tray, and leave them a few hours to dry. Then cover with chocolate, and decorate to taste. 2899. Chocolate Nougatines \ lb. castor sugar. I 1 dessert-sp. glucose. \ lb. sweet almonds. | Covering chocolate. First rub the almonds in a wet cloth without blanching, then dry them and chop them roughly. Put the sugar and glucose into a saucepan, and melt them slowly over the fire until they turn a golden brown. Keep pounding the mixture with a spoon until it is quite smooth and free from lumps. Add the almonds at the last, and stir them Well in. Do not cook them too long or they will get a burnt taste. Pour the mixture on to a well-oiled slab, and quickly flatten it out with an oiled palette knife. Then dust it over with icing sugar, and roll with the rolling-pin until it is rather less than \ inch in thickness. Now cut it across in strips, using a strong knife and hammer, wipe these strips to free them from the oil, and then cut across again in squares or oblong-shaped pieces with a pair of scissors. This must be done quickly, as the nougat becomes hard when cold, and it is difficult to cut it neatly. These may then be coated with chocolate in the usual way, or they may be kept for some time in an air-tight box before covering. Finish with a slice of sweet almond on the top of each. Notes.—Other kinds of nuts may be used instead of the almonds. Any scraps of the nougat may be broken up finely, mixed with a little chocolate.