COLD MEAT REDRESSED 253 with 1 or 2 oz. butter and allow them to cook until the moisture is evaporated. Now add the white sauce and cook again until the lettuce is quite tender. Add the meat chopped or cut in fine shreds, the cream and seasoning. Let all heat slowly, but do not boil again. Serve garnished with croutons of fried bread. Note.—Endive may be used instead of lettuce. This dish may be cooked and served in an earthen- ware casserole. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1028. Cold Meat with Spanish Onions 4 Spanish onions (medium). | lb. cold meat. | pt. brown or white sauce. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 2 table - sp. bread- crumbs. A little butter. Prepare the onions and slice them thinly so that they fall in rings. Put them into a saucepan of fast boiling water with a little salt. Boil them rapidly from 15 to 20 minutes and drain. Then put them into a saucepan with the | pint of sauce and let them simmer until tender. Add the meat cut in fine shreds or chopped, the grated cheese and seasoning. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. Pour the mixture into a fireproof dish, sprinkle the bread-crumbs over, put a few small pieces of butter on the top and brown in the oven. 1029. Pilau of Cold Beef 1 lb. cold roast beef. 2 table • sps. chopped onions. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. Pepper. 2 table-sps. whole rice. 3 tomatoes. Stock or meat boilings. Trim the meat, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat, then cut it in small fine shreds. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it for 5 minutes with- out allowing it to brown. Then add the prepared meat, pepper and salt, and cook again for a few minutes, stirring now and again. Meanwhile, wash the rice and put it into another small saucepan with cold water to cover it, and bring to the boil. Allow the rice to boil for 5 minutes, then strain it and rinse with fresh cold water. Add this rice to the meat, &c., in the other saucepan along with two of the tomatoes wiped and cut in small pieces. Pour in enough hot stock or meat boilings to cover all the ingredients, put on the lid and simmer slowly about 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Then arrange the pilau neatly on a hot dish and garnish with remaining tomato, cut in 6 or 8 pieces and cooked a few minutes in the oven. Time to cook, about 1J hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1030. Cold Meat in Sauce This is a very simple way of warming up meat, especially meat that is rather underdone. Cut some tender meat in slices and trim them neatly. Then take some good sauce, such as brown, piquante, mushroom, tomato, soubise, Robert, &e., according to taste and the kind of meat used. Put into a saucepan sufficient sauce to cover the meat to be re-heated, lay in the slices and let them soak or marinade in it for | hour. Then warm gently au bain-marie (see p. 248). When thoroughly hot, serve neatly and garnish with croutons of fried bread, baked tomatoes, grilled mushrooms, rolls of bacon, green peas, or any other suitable garnish. 1031. Meat Scallops (Coquilles de Viande au Gratln) | lb. cooked meat. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 table-sp. sherry. 2 table - sps. bread- crumbs. 1 table - sp. grated cheese. Seasoning. A little butter. Trim the meat carefully and cut it in tiny dice. Put it into a saucepan with the above proportion of brown sauce, season rather highly, add the sherry, and heat slowly over the fire. Grease six or seven china or scallop shells and sprinkle them with some of the bread-crumbs and cheese mixed. Fill them with the meat mixture, piling it rather higher in the centre than at the sides. Cover with more bread-crumbs and cheese and put a small piece of butter on the top of each. Place the scallops in a hot oven until they are nicely browned, and serve them garnished with parsley and a small slice of lemon. Note.—A little cooked and chopped macaroni may be mixed with the meat, and the wine may be omitted. 1032. Cold Meat Shape £ lb. cooked meat. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 hard-boiled egg. \ pt. light stock. \ oz. sheet gelatine. Seasoning. The meat used for this must be very tender, as it will have no further cooking. A mixture of meats, such as veal and ham, mutton and tongue, &c., is best. Trim away all skin, gristle, and super- fluous fat, and cut the meat in small neat pieces. Chop the parsley very finely, and cut the hard- boiled egg in slices. Then rinse out a mould with cold water and decorate the bottom with some of the egg and parsley. Place in very lightly a ‘little of the meat with seasoning, more egg and parsley, and so on until all is in. Do not press the ingredients down. Dissolve the gelatine in the stock, and strain it over the meat. Set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. When wanted, turn out and garnish with parsley or salad. 1033. Cold Meat Souffle 1 breakfast - cupful cooked meat. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill stock. 1 gill tomato puree. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 2 or 3 eggs. Use a mixture of ham or tongue with fresh meat if possible. Trim the meat and chop it very finely, or put it through the mincing machine. Make the tomato puree by rubbing some fresh or tinned tomatoes through a fine sieve. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour and cook it a minute or two. Add the stock and tomato pur6e and stir until boiling. Sprinkle in the meat, season to taste and according to the kind of meat used, and cook all together a few minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add the