658 THE ART OF CARVING Although at the present time the formal dinner is always served a la Russe, when all carving and serving is done at the side table or in the kitohen, a knowledge of carving is still required at family repasts. Everyone ought to know how to carve, in fact, it would be a good thing if even the young people in the house took it in turn to perform this duty. They would not then feel at a loss when they came to have homes of their own, or when called upon to take the place of their parents. A knowledge of carving can only be learnt by practice, by actually doing the work oneself, although previous to this it is a good plan to watch an expert carver at work. The following directions may also serve as a guide to those who wish to become proficient in the art. SOME GENERAL DIRECTIONS To begin with, there should be some general knowledge of the anatomy of the different joints, of the relative position of bones, joints, muscles, and fat; and also of which are the choicest por- tions. The most satisfactory way of learning this is to take the chance, when opportunity occurs, of studying the various pieces of meat off the table. In the case of game or poultry, for instance, a bird might be cut up once in its raw state, and a point made of examining the different joints. Carving does not require much physical strength ; in fact, any undue effort or exhibition of exertion, tends rather to indicate a want of skill or bad implements : the really clever carver is able to cut up the most difficult joint with perfect ease. One should first of all learn to carve neatly without splashing the gravy over the cloth, or sending pieces of meat beyond the dish. The next point is to try and cut straight and uniform slices, so that the joint may not be made to look untidy and jagged, but inviting enough to tempt one to desire another helping, or, if the piece of meat is large enough to come to the table again, it may do so wearing a presentable appearance. A number of cut surfaces only allow the escape of juice, and tend to make the joint flavourless. Bad carving is always wasteful, but the good carver will cut in such a way as to make every portion inviting and full of flavour. Both the butcher and the cook can do much to facilitate the work of the carver—in the case of a loin of mutton or veal, for instance, neat carving would be impossible unless the butcher had per- formed his part of well jointing between the ribs. The cook, too, should see that all skewers, pieces of string, &c., are removed. The size of the dish on which the joint is served is also important. It should be large enough not only to hold the joint when whole, but also to allow room for several cut portions when they are detached. Some people prefer to have a separate dish for the cut portions, and these can, if liked, be handed round. It is a mistake to put a garnish on any meat which re- quires carving at table, and the less gravy there is, the easier it will be for the one who is serving. An extra supply can always be served separately in a sauce boat. Care should be taken to place the dish correctly on the table, and near enough the carver to allow of her reaching it without difficulty. The chair, too, on which she is seated ought to be sufficiently high to enable her to have perfect control over her work without the necessity of standing. A firm cushion placed on the chair will sometimes facilitate the operation. The sharpness of the knife is another very im- ortant matter. It should always be sharpened efore a meal, and never on any account at the table, where the performance might be most trying to someone’s nerves. The knife should have a handle that can be grasped easily, and a long thin blade of a size adapted to the article to be served. It should not be used for anything but its own legitimate purpose. There are different kinds of knives sold for the purpose, as, for instance, a meat carver, a slicer, a breakfast carver, a game knife, and game scissors ; but if means are limited and only one general carver can be afforded, choose one made of the best steel, 1| inches wide at its broadest part, and from 8 to 10 inches long. The carving fork should have two long prongs, and a good guard to protect the fingers. The hand should be held over the handle of the fork with the palm downwards, and the first finger extended. The fork should then be inserted deeply enough into the meat, to enable it to be held firmly in position. The knife also should generally be held firmly and applied lightly. Both knife and fork, in fact, should be held in a natural manner, and not grasped as if they were weapons. All meat should be cut across the grain with the exception of saddle of mutton, and the cutting should be sharp and clean, never jagged like a saw. The carver must try to make a fair distribution of the different cuts, and bear in mind individual likes and dislikes. As a rule, one small slice is sufficient to serve to a lady, and two small or one large to a gentleman, but the quantity must be regulated somewhat by the number of courses in the dinner. If there is only one joint on the table, and there are ladies and gentlemen present, the carver should try to regulate the helpings so that a