91 FISH Fried Onion.—Skin the onions, and cut in very thin slices with a sharp knife. Melt a small piece of butter or dripping in a saucepan, and let it colour slightly. Put the sliced onion into this, and fry slowly for about 10 minutes until nicely browned. 220. Fillets of Herring, To Fry (Filets de Harengs Frits) 3 herring. Salt and pepper. Lemon juice. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mustard sauce. Frying fat. Slices of lemon to gar- nish. Remove the flesh from the herring, taking one long fillet from each side. Wipe these fillets with a cloth, sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and let them fie overnight. Next day egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until brown and crisp. Drain well and serve on a dish paper garnished with slices of cut lemon. Time, about 10 minutes to fry. Sufficient for 3 persons. 221. Stuffed and Baked Herring, 1 (Harengs Farcis au Four) 223. Herring au Gratin (Harengs au Gratin) 3 or 4 herring. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 shallot. Grated lemon rind. 1 tea-sp. chopped par* sley. Pepper and salt. Melted butter. Prepare the fish in the same way as for Fried Herring, No. 1, and cut them in two pieces. Chop the shallot very finely, and mix it with the bread- crumbs, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Well grease a flat fireproof dish with melted butter and sprinkle over the foot about half the bread-crumb mixture. Lay the fish on the top and cover them with the rest of the bread-crumbs, &c. Pour a little more melted butter over, and bake in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes. The fish must be thoroughly cooked, and the bread-crumb surface nicely browned. If liked, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of thin tomato sauce may be poured round, or mustard sauce served separately in a sauce boat. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 224. Soused or Potted Herring 6 herring. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper and salt. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 tea-sp* chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind A little milk. Butter or dripping. Prepare the fish as for Fried Herring (Recipe 218). If there are any hard roes put them on to a greased tin and bake them in the oven about 10 minutes. Dip each fish into the flour, coating it lightly, and score the skin across three times with a knife. To make the stuffing put the bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, parsley, and a little grated lemon rind into a basin, chop up the roes, add them to it, and moisten with milk. Spread a little of this stuffing on the open side of three of the herring, cover with the remaining three, keeping the skin side upper- most this time, and making a sandwich, as it were. Grease a baking tin with a little dripping, place the fish on this, and put some more dripping or butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until the fish is cooked. Serve on a hot dish, garnishing with parsley and a few slices of cut lemon. Note.—If the herring contain soft roes these may be placed whole between the two fish, if they are liked, but should not be mixed with the stuffing. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 222. Stuffed and Baked Herring, 2 Prepare the herring and make some stuffing as in last recipe. Lay a little of the stuffing on each herring, and roll them up, commencing at the thick end. Rub the fish over with a little dry flour and place them on a well-greased tin, fixing them to- gether with one or two skewers. Put a small piece of butter on the top of each and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes, basting them occasion- ally. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Mustard sauce may be served separately. 3 or 4 herring. 1 table-sp. flour. Jtea-sp. powdered mace. 1 bay-leaf. Pepper, salt. 4 or 5 cloves. 12 peppercorns. Brown vinegar. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Wash and clean the herring, cutting off the head, tail and fins, and scraping the skin well with a knife. Dry them in a cloth, then split them open, and remove all the bones. Cut each herring in two lengthwise. Put the flour, pepper, salt, and mace on to a plate, and mix them well together. Dip each piece of herring into this, and roll them up from the thick end towards the tail. Pack them into a greased pie-dish or fireproof casserole, ar- ranging them in two layers if necessary. If there are any roes, dip them in the same seasoning and lay them along the sides. Then pour in equal quantities of brown vinegar and water, enough to half fill the dish. Put in the cloves, peppercorns, and mace, place the dripping or butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. Set aside to cool. Serve as many pieces of fish as will be required at one time on a clean dish, pour some of the liquid round, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—Herring done in this way will keep for several days, but more vinegar must be added if the fish becomes dry. A little thinly sliced onion may be cooked with the fish if liked. Potted herring are generally eaten cold, but they may be served hot if wished. Time to bake, about 1 hour. 225. Red Herring, To Cook Open and clean the fish carefully, pour boiling water over them, and let them soak for 5 minutes. Then dry them well, and fry or broil in the same way as kippers (Recipe 1687). If the herring are very salt it will be better to let them soak in cold water for a short time before pouring the boiling water over them.