510 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2373. Lobster Bouchees (Bouchees de Homard) 1 table-sp. cooked lobster. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 egg- 1 tea-sp. anchovy sauce. 1 tea-sp. tarragon vine- gar. Cayenne. Salt. Pastry cases. Make and cook 6 or 7 very small pastry cases as directed in Recipe 2249. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour and then the lobster finely chopped. Season to taste and add the egg well beaten. Stir the mixture over the fire until hot and thick, but do not boil. Fill up the pastry cases with this, put on the little lids or sprinkle with lobster coral, and put in the oven to re-heat. Serve garnished with parsley. Note.—Batter cases (Recipe 2251) may be used instead of pastry cases. 2374. Lobster Croustades (Croustades de Homard) 2 table-sps. cooked lobster. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 table-sp. bread- crumbs. 1 tea-sp. made mustard. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 table-sp. white wine. 1 tea-sp. chutney. Salt. Pepper. Croustades of bread. Lobster coral. Chop the lobster finely and pound it in a mortar or strong basin with the butter, bread-crumbs, wine, and seasoning. Make all into a smooth and softish paste, and season rather highly. Have ready some small croustades of fried bread (Recipe 2246) and fill them with the lobster mixture, piling it rather high. Cover the croustades with buttered paper and make them thoroughly hot in the oven. Then sprinkle with lobster coral, and serve at once. 2375. Lobster Moulds (Petits Pains de Homard) 3 table-sps. lobster meat. 1 or 2 table-sps. brown stock. | gill cream. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kin. Seasoning. Browned biscuit-crumbs Hot tartare sauce. Chop the lobster meat finely, pound it in a mortar with the chutney and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls brown stock, and then rub as much as possible through a wire sieve. Then add to this puree the egg well beaten, the chopped gherkin, and the cream whipped until stiff. Season to taste, then pour the mixture into very small dariole moulds that have been well greased and coated with browned biscuit-crumbs. Cover with greased paper and poach them carefully until firm to the touch. Then turn out and serve with hot tartare sauce poured round. 2376. Marrow Toast (Croutes a la Moelle) Beef marrow. Hot buttered toast. Seasoning. Have a marrow" bone broken or sawn in pieces by the butcher, so that the marrow may be removed easily. After removing it, cut it in small pieces and scald it in boiling water for 5 or 10 minutes. The simplest way to do this is to put the marrow into a frying basket or small strainer and to plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, or to tie it in a piece of muslin; by either means it can be easily removed from the water. Drain it well, arrange it on small rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast, season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and break the marrow down with a fork. Place the croutes in the oven to become very hot, then sprinkle them with a little finely-chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 2377. Marrow Croustades (Croustades de Moelle) Beef marrow. Pastry croustades. Brown sauce. Prepare the marrow as in last recipe, and after scalding allow it to become cold. Then cut it in small pieces. Have ready some small and nicely- cooked pastry croustades (see Recipe 2248), put a very little good brown sauce at the bottom of each, then some marrow and more sauce on the top. Place the croustades in the oven to become thoroughly hot, sprinkle them with a little coral- line pepper, and serve at once. 2378. Mushroom Cassolettes (Cassolettes de Champignons) Make a ragout of mushrooms as directed in Recipe 516, and fill it into small butter cases or cassolettes (see Recipe 2252). Place them in the oven to re-heat, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. 2379. Mushroom Fritters (Beignets de Champignons) Mushrooms. Salt. Pepper. Chopped shallot. Salad oil. Lemon juice. Frying batter. Choose small round mushrooms, remove the stalks, peel them, and wash and dry them carefully. Then lay them on a plate, season them with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley and chopped shallots or chives, and a sprinkling of salad oil and lemon juice. Allow the mushrooms to lie with t0e seasoning about \ hour, then dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, pile up on lace-edged paper, and garnish with parsley and a little cut lemon. 2380. Mushroom Toast (Croutes aux Champignons) 3 or 4 oz. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. Lemon juice. 1 table-sp. brown or tomato sauce. 1 yolk of egg. 1 table-sp. cream. 6 or 7 croutes of bread. Any trimmings of mushrooms will do for this. Trim and chop them rather coarsely, put them into a small saucepan with the butter and seasoning, cover over and cook slowly about 10 minutes. Then add the sauce, which must be thick and well- flavoured, and the yolk of egg or cream. Stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, then pile the mixture