454 COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 2049. Chocolate Eclairs (Eclairs au Chocolat) Make in the same way as Co See Eclairs (see below), coating them with chocolate instead of coSee icing. 2050. CoSee Eclairs (Eclairs au Caf6) Choux pastry. | Pastry custard or CoSee icing. j whipped cream. Put the choux pastry into a forcing bag, with a tin pipe or nozzle J inch in diameter at the end of it. Grease a baking tin, and squeeze out the mixture on it in straight bars 3 to 3i inches in length. In making eclairs, hold the bag obliquely to the baking sheet. Let the end of the bar of paste rest on this, and continue forcing until it is long enough, drawing the bag at the same time slightly backwards. Then, cut oS the paste close to the pipe, and proceed with the next, keeping the eclairs about 2 inches apart so as to allow room for rising. Bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, allow the eclairs to cool on a sieve or draining tray, then make a small hole at the side, and, by means of a forcing bag, fill them with whipped cream, with pastry custard (see below) or with the two mixed. Then coat each with coSee icing. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 12 dclairs. Probable cost, Is. 2d. flavour a gill of whipped cream and sweeten it to taste, put it into a forcing bag, and force this out on the top of the souffle. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts. Put a white or silver band of paper round the dish, and tie with coloured ribbon. Sufficient for 5 or 0 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. fid. 2053. Little Creams a la Duchesse Marie (Petites Cremes a la Duchesse Marie) £ pt. milk. 1J oz. rice flour. 1 oz. sugar. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. apricot puree. 1 gill thick cream. Sugar and flavouring. Decorations. Pistachio nuts chopped. Almonds cut in dice and browned. Put the milk and rice flour into a lined sauce- pan, and stir them over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly for 5 minutes, and then remove the saucepan from the fire. Add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and apricot puree (tinned apricots or jam rubbed through a sieve). Cook a minute or two longer over the fire, and then pour the mixture into small china cases, and let it cool. Whip the cream, and sweeten and flavour it according to taste. Pile a little on the top of the mixture in each of the cases, and sprinkle with the almonds and pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 6 or 7 creams. Probable cost. Is. 2051. Pastry Custard (Creme Patisserie) J pt. milk. | | oz. cornflour. 2 yolks and 1 white of A little powdered egg. 1 oz. sugar. I vanilla. Heat the milk in a small saucepan. Mix the cornflour, eggs, sugar, and flavouring together in a small basin, and pour the hot milk on to them. Return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Allow this custard to cool before using it. A little whipped cream may be added. 2052. Cold Chocolate Souffld £ lb. chocolate. 1 gill milk. £ oz. gelatine. 1 table-sp. liqueur. 1 dessert-sp. coffee essence. J pt. lemon jelly. • 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill double cream. Garnish. 1 gill whipped cream. Sugar and flavouring. Browned almonds, pis- tachio nuts. Shred the chocolate and dissolve it in a small saucepan with the milk. When smooth, add the gelatine cut in small pieces, and dissolve that also. Then strain and add the coffee essence and liqueur. Allow this to cool, but not to set. Have the lemon jelly in a liquid condition, and whip it until light and spongy. Whip also the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and whisk the gill of cream until thick. Add the chocolate mixture to the whipped jelly, and mix it well in ; then stir in very lightly the whites of eggs and the whipped cream. Pour all into a china souffle dish with a band of paper tied round the outside to enable the mixture to come quite 3 inches above the top of the dish. Set aside until icy cold. To Serve.—Remove the band of paper, and coat the sides of the souffle which stand above the dish with finely-shred and browned almonds. Then 2054. Claret Pudding 1 pt. claret. | pt. strawberry or raspberry puree. £ lb. sugar, f oz. gelatine. A few drops carmine. 1 lemon. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. Pistachio nuts. Make the puree by rubbing some fresh fruit through a hair sieve along with the sugar. Put the claret into a saucepan with the gelatine and lemon rind and juice. Heat slowly until the gela- tine is dissolved, then add the fruit puree and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Strain into a basin, add carmine to make the mixture a good colour, and when cool pour it into a wet border mould. Allow this to set, then turn out, fill the centre with whipped and sweetened cream, and decorate ■with chopped pistachio nuts. Note.—The claret may be diluted with half water if wished. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2055. Diplomatic Pudding (Pouding Dlplomate) To Garnish the Mould. Lemon jelly. Angelica. Pistachio nuts. Mixture. | pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. \ oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Vanilla. | pt. double cream. 2 sponge cakes. A few ratafias. Sherry or liqueur. Take a plain charlotte mould and line it thinly with lemon or wine jelly. Then decorate it with angelica and pistachio in imitation of sprays of maidenhair fern. The angelica should be softened first in hot water, then split and cut in very fine strips for the stalks. Gather up a bunch of these