SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 239 butter in a lined frying pan, put in the brains, and saute them a few minutes. Then arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Allow the butter to brown, add to it the parsley, capers, and vinegar with a little pepper and salt, pour this over the brains and serve very hot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 960. Calf’s Brains with Black Butter, 2 (Cer- velles de Veau au Beurre Noir) Prepare and cook the brains as directed in Recipe 958, and while still hot cut them in pieces and arrange them neatly on a dish. Put a piece of fresh butter the size of a hen’s egg into a frying pan with a pinch of pepper and salt. Heat it over the fire until it turns brown, then draw the pan to the side of the fire and add J table-spoonful of good vinegar. Pour this over the brains, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve very hot. 961. Fried Brains (Cervelles Frites) Grated lemon rind. Egg. Bread-crumbs. Tomato sauce. 2 calves’ brains. A little flour. Salt. Pepper. Prepare the brains as in Recipe 958, dry them well, and let them become quite cold. Then cut them in rather thick slices and season with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Now coat them lightly with fine flour, dip them in beaten egg and then in bread-crumbs. Handle them lightly, and make the pieces as smooth as possible. When all are ready, fry them in deep fat or in a small quantity of hot butter until they are a pretty brown colour. Drain and serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. Tomato, tartare, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Notes.—If liked, a little grated Parmesan may be mixed with the bread-crumbs. The pieces of brain may be dipped in frying batter (see Recipe 1861) instead of in egg and bread-crumbs. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 962. Scalloped Calf’s Brains (Cervelles de en Coquilles) Calf’s brains. 1 gill white sauce. A few button mush* rooms. 1 table-sp. cream. White pepper. Salt. Grated lemon rind. A few bread-crumbs. A little butter. Prepare the brains as in Recipe 958, and when cool cut them in small pieces. Heat the sauce in a small saucepan and put the brains into it. Chop and sprinkle them with bread-crumbs. Put some of the brain mixture in each and cover with more bread-crumbs. Lay small pieces of butter on the top and brown quickly in the oven. 963. Calf’s Brains au Gratin (Cervelles de Veau au Gratin) Prepare in the same way as scalloped calf’s brains (Recipe 962), cooking the mixture in one fireproof dish instead of the scallop shells. A little grated cheese should be added to the mixture and also sprinkled over the top with the bread- crumbs. 964. Calf’s Feet with Tomato Sauce (Pieds de Veau aux Tomates) 2 calf’s feet. [ 1 pt. tomato sauce. 2 pts. light stock. 1 Crofitons fried bread. Wash and scrape the feet. Put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring to boiling point, and throw the water away. Wash the feet again and rinse out the saucepan. Return the feet to the saucepan with enough white stock to cover them, and cook slowly, until they are quite tender and the gelatinous part will slip away easily from the bones. If no stock is available use water and add vegetables to flavour. A little white wine may also be added. When the feet are ready lift them out, bone them, and press between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Then cut them into small neat pieces. Heat the tomato sauce, put the pieces of feet into it, and simmer for 20 minutes. Serve in a hot dish, and garnish with croutons of fried bread, some green peas, or fancy vegetables. Note.—Other sauces may be used in place of the tomato. Time to cook the feet, about 4 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 965. Calf’s Feet, Fried (Pieds de Veau Frits) 2 cooked calf’s feet. Beaten egg. Salt. Pepper. Bread-crumbs* Lemon juice. Prepare and cook the feet as in last recipe, and press them until cold. Then cut them in neat- sized pieces and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Now egg and bread- crumb these pieces and fry them to a delicate brown colour in boiling fat. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley and thin slices of lemon. Mayonnaise, tartare, tomato, devil, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 966. Calf’s Head with Brain Sauce (TSte de Veau a l’Anglaise) f calf’s head (blanched). Lemon juice. Cold water. A bunch of herbs. Flavouring vegetables. Salt. | pt. brain sauce. Scalloped Calf’s Brains the mushrooms and add them with the cream. Season to taste with white pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind. Grease 4 or 5 scallop shells To Prepare and GooTc the Head.—Remove the brains from the head and keep them for making the sauce. Thoroughly clean the head, paying particular attention to the nostril and ear, and let it lie in cold water for an hour or two. Then drain,