653 HINTS ON TABLE DECORATION handy; indeed, any one at all resourceful need never be at a loss. Arrangement.—When arranging flowers, the aim should be to make the table pretty and attractive, and at the same time to think of something novel. Insert any ferns or foliage first in the vase, stripping ofl any leaves from the stalks, as these would only crowd the vase, and prevent the flowers drawing sufficient water. Then place in the flowers care- fully, making them face in the direction required. They should not be crowded, but should have room to stand out individually. The Japanese, who are so artistic, consider one choice bloom quite suffi- cient to put in a vase. If some flowers have a tendency to twist about, this can be remedied by pushing a piece of thin wire up the inside of the stem, and allowing it to project half an inch. The projection can usually be inserted into a piece of foliage or stem, and the flower can thus be retained in the desired position. Trailing green, such as smilax, can also have a little wire inserted in the stems, if it is desired to keep it in a special position. The tendency at present is to keep the floral decoration low; tall growing flowers, when they are used, being put in slender glasses, or arranged in such a way that they do not obstruct the view. From the conversational point of view this is a great advantage, as it is never pleasant to be forced to look around ornaments in order to talk to some one at "the opposite side of the table. Harmony of colour with the surroundings, a sense of proportion as to height, size, and shape of vases, a lightness of touch in the grouping together, with a quick eye for possibilities in the blending of shades, are all necessary to insure success in the arrangement of flowers. SEASONABLE DECORATIONS Spring Decorations.—Spring brings with it a glorious variety of flowers; tulips, narcissus, hyacinths, pheasant’s eye, daffodils, &c., follow each other in quick succession. These may either be cut and arranged in vases, or put on the table growing in pots; the latter having an added interest if grown by oneself. There is nothing easier to grow than bulbs of all kinds, and, if placed in pretty bowls with cocoanut fibre, they can be used for table decoration as long as they last. Violets also take a first place among spring flowers on account of their sweetness, but unfortunately they do not make a good show at night. A favourite combination is that of dark violets with the lavender-coloured Neapolitan variety. Dark violets with the pale purple iris also look well, while a large bowl of lily of the valley, surrounded by smaller ones with violets, is very effective and charming. Lilac, too, in all its blending shades, is a sweet spring decoration, but it is somewhat difficult to arrange, except on a very large table. Another important niche in our spring decorations is filled by the little salmon pink anemones. Sold in small bundles of unopened flowers, they look insignificant to those who do not know their value, but when they have been in water for a short time in a warm room, a lovely show is made by the gradual unfolding of the buds to their full size. Their colour alone makes them valuable, coming at a time when so many of our flowers are white or yellow. The larger variegated anemones are also pretty, and perhaps more showy, but they do not blend so well with other colours. Summer Decorations.—The rose, the queen of flowers, in all its many forms and shades, is the most beautiful decoration at this season of the year. As a queen it must reign alone, no other flower being permissible near it. For table de- coration it is better to choose roses of one colour, or various shades of the same colour, for example a blending from pink to crimson. Never attempt mixing colours ; it is a fatal mistake, and the result never looks well. There is perhaps nothing more beautiful than an old silver or china bowl filled with dark crimson roses, kept in place with wire or leaden clips; or long-stalked pink roses with perfect foliage in clear glass vases. Rambler roses, although more difficult to arrange, are also pretty, if the clusters are not too heavy, and suitable vases can be found. Carnations, in all their varying shades, rank perhaps next to the rose in beauty of colour and fragrance. They look best when arranged with some very light-looking green, such as maidenhair or asparagus fern. Sweet peas are also favourites, and, with their many shades of pink and mauve, are particularly useful in colour schemes. They look best when loosely arranged in clear glass vases, with some pretty fight green, such as gypsophila. A simple and effective decoration can sometimes be arranged with dwarf nasturtiums prettily arranged in small bowls; large fine blooms of pansies are also admired, and when well arranged in little bowls are very attractive. Another delightful table decoration for a hot day is formed by large marguerites, blue Canterbury bells or blue cornflowers, and some pretty grasses or corn. They seem to impart a sense of coolness. Harebells and dog daisies have the same effect, while the addition of a few red poppies gives a more festive appearance. Shirley poppies, too, in all their soft and pretty shades, are another welcome addition to our summer decorations. Arranged in tall glasses with sprays of feathery white gypsophila, they look very charming and graceful. If chosen as much in bud as possible they will last a week, and very pretty combinations can be worked out in the different colours. Autumn and Winter Decorations.—Asters and dahlias in all their varied colours now come along. The single dahlias are perhaps better than the double ones for table decoration, as they lend themselves more readily to arrangement, although a bowl of the latter, if the shades are well blended, give a rich feast of colour. The loose-petalled asters are more effective than the closer kinds, and these, too, can be had in some lovely shades. Michaelmas daisies are also valuable at this time of the year, and there are now some very pretty new varieties, small blooms that are fight and feathery-looking, and that are useful for mixing with other flowers. The Virginian creeper supplies a beautiful form of foliage for some of the autumn flowers, but it is necessary to wire it, as the leaves soon drop off. For those who live in the country