COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 148 499. Green Pea Puree (Puree de Petits Pois) When the peas become too old for serving whole, they can very well be made into a puree. Boil them in salted water until tender, then drain and pass them through a sieve. Return them to the sauce- pan with a good piece of butter or some bacon fat, and enough hot milk or cream to moisten. Add seasoning and a very little sugar. This may either be served separately along with meat, or kept fairly thick and pressed through a forcing bag as a garnish for the centre of an entree, or as a fancy border. 500. Green Pea Balls | pt. cooked peas 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk. £ tea-sp. powdered mint. White pepper. Salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. The peas must be dry and free from all sauce or gravy. Rub them through a sieve and season with pepper, salt, and the finely powdered mint. Now make a panada with the butter, flour, and milk—melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, then pour in the milk and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Add the green pea puree to this, and when thoroughly blended turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. When set, form into small balls, using a little flour; egg and bread- crumb these, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley or sprigs of watercress. Note.—Dried green peas, if they are well cooked, may be used instead of fresh peas. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 501. Tinned Peas, To Prepare These are very valuable when the fresh vegetable is not to be had. Buy those of a good mark, and never warm them in their tin or bottle. Turn them into a strainer and pour boiling water over them in order to thoroughly rinse them. Then pat them into a saucepan or double cooker with a little butter, salt, sugar, and a sprig of mint. Make all thoroughly hot and serve as desired. They re- quire no cooking. Indian Corn or Maize (Mais) Indian corn in its fresh state is by no means common in this country, although of late years it has begun to come into our markets. It is a kind of grass or grain of which the edible portion is the ears. To be in perfection the cobs, which are the whole ears, must be young and fresh, with the grains full of a milky juice. The green Indian corn is a very nourishing food and a great favourite with the American. . Dried and ground we have maize in several different forms, such as hominy, cornflour, maiz- ena, &c. Pop-corn is the whole gra in heated until i-t bursts and then coated with sugar. Polenta too, which is such a favourite dish in Italy, is another preparation of maize. Indian Com 502. Indian Corn, To Cook Choose young fresh cobs, those that are short and plump are the best. First remove the husk or outer covering of leaves and strip off all the silky fibre which will be found underneath. Then select two or three of the best of the husks, cover the cobs with these and tie them round with string. Place the cobs in a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, add enough sugar to slightly sweeten the water, and boil gently until the grains are tender, from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, drain at once, as overcooking destroys the flavour. Serve the corn very hot on a folded serviette, and serve melted or oiled butter, well seasoned with pepper and salt, separately. 503. Creamed Com 5 or 6 ears fresh com. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 tea-sp. salt. | tea-sp. white pepper. Remove the corn from the ears and put it into a double saucepan with the milk, butter, sugar, and seasoning. Cook it with hot water in the under pan until quite tender. Then add the flour broken with a little cold milk and cook again until the sauce thickens and the flour is thoroughly cooked. Add more salt if necessary. Serve very hot and hand dry toast or biscuits separately. Note.—If preferred, the corn may be boiled first as above and then added to a sufficient quantity of white sauce to moisten it. A little cream is always an improvement. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Hops (Houblon) The young tender shoots of hops make quite a good vegetable when they can be obtained fresh in the hop districts. They should be treated much in the same way as asparagus. Wash the shoots and scrape them lightly. Then tie them in neat bundles and boil in salted water, or stock until tender. Serve in the same way as asparagus, handing melted butter separately or any other sauce to taste.