VEGETABLES AND SALADS 155 Note.—A little tomato ketchup or grated cheese may be added to the mixture if liked, or some cooked turnips may be mixed with the parsnips. 529. Scalloped Parsnips (Panais au Gratin) 2 or 3 cooked parsnips. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. | pt. good white sauce. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. Seasoning. Cut the parsnips into small cubes or in thin slices. Grease a fireproof baking dish and put into it a layer of white sauce. Arrange on the top a layer of the prepared parsnips, sprinkling them with a little chopped onion, pepper and salt. Repeat these layers until the sauce and parsnips are used up, making the last layer sauce. Coat the surface with the bread-crumbs, put a few small pieces of butter on the top and brown in a quick oven. Note.—The onion may be omitted, and a little grated cheese or anchovy essence may be mixed with the sauce. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 530. Parsnip Balls (Croquettes de Panais) 1 breakfast-cupful cooked parsnips. 2 oz. grated cheese. 1 yolk of egg. A small piece of butter. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Rub some cooked and dry parsnips through a sieve and measure one breakfast-cupful. Put this into a saucepan and add to it the grated cheese, 1 dessert-spoonful melted butter, and seasoning to taste. Drop in the yolk of egg and mix for a few minutes over the fire. Then turn the mixture on to a plate and put it aside to cool. When cold, form it into small balls, using a little flour to pre- vent them sticking to the hands. Then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249), and fry in boiling fat (see p. 248) until a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve piled high on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 531. Glazed or Browned Parsnips 2 OB 3 parsnips. 3 table-sps. brown sugar. 2 table-sps. water. Prepare and cook the parsnips as in Recipe 526, and drain them well. Put them into a fireproof baking dish with the flat side downwards. Mix two table-spoonfuls of the brown sugar with the water and pour them over the parsnips. Bake in a good oven for a few minutes, basting with the liquid, then sprinkle with the remainder of the sugar and return to the oven until well browned. Note.—This is a very good accompaniment to roast duck or wild duck. Potatoes (Pommes de Terre) There are many different varieties of potatoes, some are dry and mealy in character, while others are close and waxy. The character and flavour of the potatoes depend very much on the soil on which they are grown, and their goodness depends to a large extent on the way in which they are cooked. For boiling, steaming, and baking a mealy variety should be selected, while for serving as a salad and other special dishes a waxy kind is best, as the potatoes keep their form. Potatoes require humouring in cooking ; some will boil better than they steam, and others will steam quite success- fully and prove a failure if boiling is attempted. One or two trials will soon show which is the most successful mode of treatment. If the potatoes have to be boiled they are never so valuable as when cooked in their skins, as by peeling and boiling some of the most valuable properties are lost. A well-cooked mealy potato is a very whole- some form of food, and especially so when used along with meat or some other form of nitro- genous food. New potatoes are not so easily digested as the older ones. The starch obtained from potatoes is very largely used for the making of different farinaceous articles. 532. Potatoes, To Boil To Prepare the Potatoes.—First wash and brush the potatoes well in cold water to get rid of all the earth, and throw them into a basin of clean cold water, ready for peeling. With a potato knife peel them as thinly as possible, and with the point of the knife remove all the “ eyes “ or black specks, and keep the potatoes in water until they are wanted. They should not be left for long as soaking spoils their flavour and goodness. The potatoes must be of equal size for boiling; if some are larger than others, cut them in two or three pieces. Put them into a saucepan, just large enough to hold them, sprinkle with salt, and cover them with cold water. Potatoes should neither have too much room while boiling, nor too much water to toss them about. Put the lid on the pan, and bring them quickly to the boil, and then draw the pan to the side of the fire and allow the water just to simmer gently until the potatoes are ready. The time will vary from twenty to thirty minutes, according to the age and kind of potatoes used. Let them cook until they can be pierced pretty easily with a fork or skewer. Then pour off every drop of water, holding the lid against the top of the saucepan, to keep the potatoes from falling out. Cover the potatoes over with a piece 'of crumpled kitchen paper. Put the lid half on the pan, and let them stand by the side of the fire for from five to ten minutes longer, shaking the pan occasionally until the potatoes are quite dry and mealy. It is better not to boil the potatoes too soft to begin with ; they will finish cooking after- wards in their own steam. Note.—Some kinds of potatoes will cook better if put on in warm water instead of cold, one or two trials will soon show which is best. Time to cook, about | hour. 533. Potatoes, To Boil in the Skin (Pommes de Terre en Robe de Chambre) Choose good sound potatoes of equal size. Wash and brush them in cold water until perfectly clean, then put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them and salt in the proportion of one dessert-spoonful to a quart of water. Put the lid on the pan and bring the potatoes quickly to the boil, then simmer more slowly until they can be pierced fairly easily with a fork or skewer. They will require from 20 to 30 minutes. Now strain