359 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 1537. Flan of Apples (Flan de Pommes) 5 or 6 apples. 1 oz. butter. 2 of 3 oz. sugar. Rind of | lemon. 1 table-sp. cake or biscuit crumbs. Short crust or cornflour pastry. First prepare the apple mixture for filling the flan. Reserve one good apple to use afterwards, and peel and slice the remainder very thinly. Put them into a saucepan with the butter, sugar, and grated lemon rind, and cook them over the fire until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. Then turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Make a flan or open tart with short crust or cornflour pastry as directed above. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter for the above amount of mixture, and the mixture is put 0 Apple Flan into it before it is baked. Prick the pastry, sprinkle in the cake-crumbs, and fill three parts full with the apple pulp or marmalade. Now take the uncooked apple, peel it, cut it in quarters, remove the core and slice the pieces evenly and rather thinly. Arrange these slices in a circle round and round the top of the tart, placing them one leaning on the other and covering the apple marmalade entirely. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and well cooked. 'When ready, remove the tart from the oven and allow it to stand a few minutes, then remove the ring, and serve the tart on a plate with a dish paper under it. Note.—Small apple tartlets may be prepared in the same way as the above. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10(7. to Is. 1538. Flan of Apricots (Flan d’Abricots) Tinned apricots. Short crust or cornflour Sugar. 2 or 3 whites of eggs. pastry. Cherries and angelica. Make a flan with pastry as directed on p. 358, and bake it before the filling is put in. When ready, fill the case with tinned apricots which have been well drained from their syrup and dredge them with castor sugar. Whip up the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth and mix into them 3 table-spoonfuls of finely sifted sugar. Pile this meringue on the top of the apricots, decorate with small pieces of cherry and angelica, dredge with sugar and place the tart in a very moderate oven until the meringue is dry and lightly browned. This may be served hot or cold. Note.—To make a flan of fresh apricots, see Flan of Greengages. 1539. Cocoanut Tart or Flan 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2 eggs. \ pt. milk. 1 table-sp. cornflour. A few drops vanilla. 1 table-sp. sugar. 2 table-sps. jam. A flan or open tart of pastry. Make a flan or open tart of short crust as directed in on p. 358, and bake it before filling. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter. Put the yolks of the two eggs into a basin with the sugar, and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Heat the milk (except 2 table-spoonfuls) and pour it slowly on to the yolks of eggs, stirring all the time. Return this to the saucepan, and add the cornflour broken with the remainder of the cold milk. Stir until well thickened, and then remove from the fire. Add the cocoanut, vanilla essence, and the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the jam at the bottom of the pastry case and the mixture on the top. Return to the oven for a few minutes, until nicely browned on the top. Sprinkle with sugar, remove the ring and serve the tart either hot or cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10(7. 1540. A Custard Tart or Flan (Flan a la Creme) 1 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. cornflour or potato flour. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg. Flavouring. Short crust or corn- flour pastry. First prepare the custard for filling the flan. Put the milk (except 2 table-spoonfuls) into a saucepan and heat it over the fire. Mix the corn- flour smoothly with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and add it to the hot milk. Stir over the fire until boiling and then cook a few minutes. Put the yolks and white of egg into a basin with the sugar, and work them well together with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Then pour the milk and cornflour slowly on to them, stirring all the time. Flavour with lemon, almond, vanilla, or any other flavouring preferred, and then stir the custard occa- sionally until cold. Make a flan or pastry case 6 or 7 inches in diameter (see p. 358), prick it well at the bottom, but do not bake it. Fill up with the above custard and then bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and the custard lightly browned. When ready, remove the tart ring, sprinkle the flan with sugar, and serve either hot or cold. Time to bake, about \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 10(7. 1541. Flan of Greengages A flan or open tart of pastry. 1| lbs. greengages. I lb. sugar. 1 table-sp. liqueur. wine or Wipe the greengages, cut them in halves and remove the stones. Put them on to a dish, sprinkle with sugar, pour over the wine or liqueur, and let them stand while the pastry case is being prepared. A little fruit juice may be used