STOCKS AND SOUPS 45 simmer slowly from 1J to 2 hours, skimming when necessary. When ready, strain through a fine wire or hair sieve into a basin. Lift out the best pieces of the meat for serving in the soup and rub as much as possible of the remainder through the sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it with the meat. Season carefully, add a little lemon juice if necessary and the hot milk just before serving. Serve the soup in .a hot soup tureen and serve plainly boiled rice separately (see Recipe 1586). A lemon cut in quarters may also be handed separately. Notes.—Almost any kind of meat may be used for the making of this soup, or if good stock is available, trimmings of meat and bones will serve the purpose. The amount of curry powder and paste used will depend somewhat on the kind used and also upon individual taste. The addition of a little cream, if it can be spared, is a great improvement to this soup. Time to cook, 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. to Is. 8d. Quantity, 3 pints. skim well. Add the vegetables (one large cupful of each kind), the bunch of herbs and spices, and simmer all gently for 4 or 5 hours. Then strain off the stock into a basin and let it stand until cold. Next day remove all fat from the top of the stock. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, add the flour and brown them together, then pour on the stock gradually and stir until boiling. A small piece of glaze may be added if the soup is not a good colour. Put in salt to taste and add a squeeze of orange or lemon juice. A little wine, sherry, or marsala may also be added if wished. The soup may then be served as it is or with a garnish of vegetables cut in small pieces or fancy shapes. A few small pieces of the meat may also be added. Note.—The bones and meat should be put on again to make a second stock. Time to cook, 5 hours first day, \ hour second day. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 4 or 5 pints. 20. Ox-tall Soup (Potage de Queue de Boeuf) 18. Mutton Broth (Bouillon de Mouton) H lbs. neck or knuckle of mutton. 3 pts. cold water. 1 table-sp. rice or barley. 2 or 3 leeks or 1 onion. A small piece each of car- rot, turnip,andcelery. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth. Cut it in small pieces away from the bone and remove all superfluous fat. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in small neat pieces, allowing about 1 tea- cupful of each. Put the meat, bones, and water into a saucepan with a little salt, put on the lid, and bring slowly to the boil. Skim well, add the rice well washed and the prepared vegetables. (If barley is used it should be soaked overnight and blanched before being added to the soup.) Simmer the soup from 2 to 3 hours, or until the vege- tables are well cooked. Remove the bones and any grease from the top of the broth, add the parsley, pepper, and more salt if necessary, before serving. Notes.—If preferred, the meat may be kept whole, and served as a separate course, with parsley or caper sauce poured over it. For invalid mutton broth see Invalid Cookery. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. Gd. Quantity, 2\ pints. 19. Ox-cheek Soup 1 ox cheek. 2 oz. dripping or butter. 4 qts. cold water. A bunch of herbs. A ham bone. 20 black peppercorns. Carrot, turnip, and A blade of mace, celery. 3 or 4 cloves. 2 or 3 onions. Salt. A squeeze of orange or 2 oz. flour. lemon juice. Wash the cheek in several waters, let it soak in cold water with a little salt and wash again. Then cut up the meat in small pieces and break the bones. Put bones and meat into a large saucepan- with the cold water and an odd ham bone or some trimmings of ham. Bring slowly to the boil and * 1 ox tail. 2 qts. second stock. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 1 onion. 1 or 2 sticks of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 24 black peppercorns. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. dripping. 2 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. ketchup. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 table-sp. sherry or marsala. Seasoning to taste. Cut the tail in small joints, making two pieces out of the larger joints. Remove all superfluous fat, and wash the pieces well. Put them into a large saucepan with cold water to cover, bring to the boil and pom? ofl the water. (This blanches the pieces of tail and avoids an unnecessary amount of scum rising on the soup.) Rinse out the saucepan and rinse and dry the pieces of tail. Put half the flour on a plate and coat the pieces of tail with it. Melt half the dripping in a saucepan, and when smoking hot, put in the pieces of tail and brown them well on all sides. Add the stock and a little salt, bring to the boil, and skim well. Prepare the vegetables and cut them in rough pieces, not too small, and when the soup has ceased to throw up any scum, add them with the herbs and peppercorns, and let all simmer slowly about 4 hours until the pieces of tail are tender without falling to pieces. Then strain through a fine sieve into a basin and if possible stand until cold. Remove ail fat from the top of the soup and rinse some of the best pieces of tail for serving in it. Then melt the remainder of the dripping in a saucepan and let it brown. Add the remainder of the flour and brown that also. Next pour in the strained soup and stir over the fire until boiling. Put in the pieces of tail, the ketchup, and any other season- ing required and simmer a few minutes longer. Add the wine, and if liked some fancy shaped pieces of cooked carrot and turnip. Notes.—The wine may be omitted. The pieces of tail not used in the soup may be heated in some good sauce, such as tomato, curry, or brown sauce, and served at another meal. Time to cook, 41- hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 3 pints.