249 COLD MEAT REDRESSED If the fat is not made sufficiently hot it will soak into the articles being fried and make them greasy and sodden instead of dry and crisp. Let them fry a nice brown colour, then lift them out with a perforated spoon or drainer, letting the fat drip well from them. Or, what is better still, use a frying basket, which will fit inside the saucepan, Frying Basket or, a special fryer, which has a special arrangement whereby the wire drainer can be suspended above the fat to permit of draining. When well drained, turn the articles on to a double fold of kitchen paper, and if the process has been well carried out, no particle of grease will remain. Serve all fried articles with a dish paper or d’oyley under them. This method of frying is suitable for any kind of food which requires only a short time to cook, such as fritters, rissoles, croquettes, small fish, fillets of fish, &c. As a rule the articles being fried are protected by a coating of egg and bread- crumbs, thin pastry, or batter. Food which re- quires a long time to cook must never be treated in this way. The fat should not be left on the fire when finished with, as it will quickly get overheated and burn. It should be drawn to one side and allowed to cool a little, then strained through a piece of muslin into a tin basin in order to keep back any bread-crumbs or other sediment, which would spoil its clearness. It may then be put aside for future use. If care is taken of the fat in this way, it will keep good for many weeks, and it will not be found an extravagance, as but little is consumed each time. When it does become dirty and discoloured, it may be clarified. If a large quantity of frying is done in a house- hold, it might be as well to keep a special lot of fat for fish frying, but otherwise it is scarcely worth while, because if the fat is properly heated and used, no flavour from the articles fried should be imparted to it. A word of warning might be given here about the danger of fat boiling over and catching fire, which has been the cause of many a bad burning accident. This is generally caused by too much being put into the fat at one time, or by the sudden introduction of too much moisture. If such an accident should occur, extinguish the burning fat on the grate with ashes and never on any account attempt to use water. If the fat in the pan itself catches fire it can generally be put out by smother- ing it with a saucepan lid. The greatest danger arises from putting the pan of fat over an open fire, and, as stated above, this must never be done. To Egg and Bread-Crumb The bread-crumbs for this purpose should be fine and dry. White bread-crumbs will look the best, but those that are made from scraps of bread browned in the oven are the most economical. From 1 to 2 breakfast-cupfuls will be required, according to the number of articles to be coated, and for convenience’ sake have them on a good- sized piece of white paper. The egg should be broken on to a plate, yolk and white together, and beaten with a fork until it ceases to be stringy. When eggs are expensive, and one is not sufficient, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of milk or water may be added instead of a second egg. Put the articles to be egged one at a time into the egg, and coat them all over with it, using a small brush for the purpose. See that every part is well covered, or they will have a patchy appearance when fried. Do the brushing over quickly, otherwise the egg soaks into the articles and makes them soft. When well coated, drop the egged article on to the top of the bread-crumbs, lifting it with a knife. Cover it with the crumbs, by taking hold of the sides of the paper and tossing the crumbs over it, then press the crumbs well on with the hands, and shake the loose ones off. Now lay the article on a board, and with a flat knife, press the crumbs on again and make it as tidy and shapely as possible. Then place on a plate or tin with double paper on it ready for draining, and if time permits allow the things thus prepared to stand a little while to dry and harden before frying. 1010. Hash J lb. cooked meat. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 3 gills stock. Seasoning. 1 onion. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Sippets of toast. 2 tomatoes. Trim the meat carefully, removing all skin, gristle, burnt pieces, and superfluous fat, and then weigh it. Slice it rather thinly and cut it in pieces of a convenient size. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, and when smoking hot, put in the onion thinly sliced. Fry it a few minutes, allowing it to brown, but on no account to blacken. Next add the flour and brown that also. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling and skim if necessary. Season to taste and lay in the meat. Put the lid on the saucepan and allow the meat to heat in the sauce for 15 minutes. Care must be taken that it does not boil, or it will toughen, and the hash will be spoilt. This is most important. To serve, arrange the pieces of meat neatly on a hot dish and strain the sauce over. Garnish with sippets of toast and the tomatoes cut in quarters and cooked in the oven. Notes.—The stock used must be good and well seasoned, or the hash will not be a success. If none is available put the bones and trimmings of the meat into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and when boiling add small pieces of vegetable to flavour. Simmer slowly for 1 hour and strain. The hash may be improved by the addition of a few