BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 563 these slices again with jam, and place them again one on top of the other, reversing them this time so as to form checks of colour. Press well together, and trim if necessary. Make some almond paste Chapel Windows and work it on the board with icing sugar until quite smooth and elastic. Roll out into a thin sheet, using more icing sugar to prevent its sticking, and then roll across with a fluted rolling-pin, first one way and then the other, so as to form checks. Wrap the cake in this sheet of almond paste, join- ing it very neatly underneath. Trim the ends of the cake, and cut in slices as required. Probable cost. Id. per slice. | lb. flour. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. £ lb. syrup. 2 eggs. . £ lb. sugar. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 2685. Coburg Cakes £ tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. | tea-sp. allspice. 1£ oz. butter. A few sweet almonds. Sieve all the dry ingredients except the almonds into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter and syrup in a small saucepan, and pour them into the middle of the dry ingredients. Add the eggs well beaten, and mix all together. Have ready some small patty tins well greased, and with a half-blanched almond at the foot of each. Half fill the tins with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, £ to § hour. Probable cost, 8d. 2686. Chocolate Cakes 4 oz. chocolate. 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 3 eggs. 3 oz. flour. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Grate the chocolate and place it in a jar in the oven or in a saucepan of hot water, allowing it to melt slowly. Put the butter into a basin, and beat it with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix it in. Then add the yolks of egg and chocolate, and beat for a few minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and sieve the flour with the baking powder. Add alternately a little flour and a little white of egg to the first mixture until all is lightly blended together. Half fill small prepared tins (p. 550) with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. Note.—These cakes may be glazed with chocolate icing if wished, and decorated with small pieces of preserved fruit or pistachio nuts. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2687. Cocoanut Rock Cakes £ lb. flour. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. A little grated lemon rind. 3 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 egg. A little milk. Sieve the flour, salt, and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the cocoanut, baking powder, and grated lemon rind, and mix all together. Then make a well in the centre and add the eggs well beaten, and enough milk to bind all together. Do not make the mixture too moist. Form in small rough heaps on a greased tin, dust them over with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2688. Cocoanut Slices 2 oz. flour. 3 eggs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. A few drops of vanilla. Icing—£ lb. icing sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and a little water. Decorations—1 oz. cocoanut and a few pistachio nuts or coloured sugar. Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix it well in. Then add the eggs and flour by degrees, beating well and lifting the mixture high in the basin. When the mixture looks light and full of air bubbles, add the cocoanut, vanilla, and baking powder, and mix these in. Pour the mixture into a shallow tin that has been lined with paper, and bake in a moder- ate oven until lightly browned and cooked through. When the cake is ready, turn it out on to a sheet of sugared paper, and allow it to cool. Then pre- pare the icing. Sieve the sugar and put it into a small lined saucepan. Strain in the lemon juice and warm slightly over the fire, adding a little water if necessary. Care must be taken not to make the icing too liquid, but just sufficiently so to pour over the cake. Coat the cake nicely with the icing by means of a spoon, and sprinkle with the 1 oz. of cocoanut and a few chopped pistachio nuts, or a little coloured sugar. Cut in neat slices whilst the icing is still soft. Time to bake, from 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, la. 2689. Coffee Buns £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. 2 oz. currants. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 egg- 1 tea-sp. baking powder. £ lb. castor sugar. A little milk. | tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then add the currant cleaned, the candied peel finely shred, and the castor sugar. Mix well together and make a well in the centre.' Add the egg well beaten and enough milk to form a stiffish paste. Form the mixture in small rough heaps on a greased and floured baking sheet, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp.