60 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD sprinkle in the tapicoa and allow it to boil until it turns quite clear. Season if necessary and serve with sippets of toast. Notes.—A garnish of vegetables cut in fancy shapes may be added to this soup if liked. Large tapioca may be used, but it must be soaked first in cold water, and it will require a longer time to cook. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 100. Vermicelli Soup (Potage au Vermicelle) 1£ oz. vermicelli. 2J pts. well-flavoured stock. Put the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the vermicelli slightly crushed and sim- mer gently from 15 to 20 minutes. Season to taste and serve with crohtons of bread sprinkled with Parmesan. A little milk may be added to the soup if liked. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 101. Clam Soup 25 to 30 clams. 1 pt. water. 3 potatoes. 1 onion. $ oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Cayenne pepper. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. If the clams are in their shells, well wash and brush them and put them in a stewpan with just enough water to prevent them burning. Cover them with a cloth and let them steam until the shells open. Then remove the clams and rinse them in 1 pint of water to get rid of the sand. Strain the rinsing water through a piece of muslin and put it into a saucepan with the hard parts of the clams cut small and the potatoes and onion sliced. Simmer for \ hour, then strain through a sieve, rubbing the potato and onion through. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and milk, add the sieved mixture, parsley, seasoning, and soft part of the clams. Make the soup quite hot and serve with toast biscuits or dry toast. Time to cook, \ to 1 hour. Quantity, 2 pints. 102. Eel Soup (Potage aux Anguilles) 1| lbs. of eels. 3 pts. cold water. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. milk. Pepper and salt. 1 onion. A small piece of carrot. A small piece of turnip. 2 bay-leayes. 1 blade of mace. A small bunch of herbs. A few parsley stalks. Wash the eels, and cut them in pieces. Put them into a saucepan with the cold water and a little salt. Bring to the boil, and skim well. Then add the vegetables, prepared and cut into small pieces, the herbs and other seasonings. Simmer slowly for 20 minutes, then lift out some of the best pieces of the eels, free from skin and bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup. Allow the soup to simmer from If to 2 hours longer, then strain through a sieve into a basin. Rinse out the sauce- pan, put the butter into it, and let it melt over the fire. Add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour in the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add the milk, the pieces of eel which were reserved, and seasoning to taste. Boil for 5 minutes longer, and pour into a hot soup tureen. Serve with sippets of toasted bread. Note.—A little cream added at the last will im- prove the soup. Time to cook, 2 to hours. Quantities, to 3 pints. 103. Fish Broth 3 pts. fish stock. 2 lettuces. 2 sticks celery. £ lb. sorrel leaves. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. 1 slice of toast. Put the fish stock or broth into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Prepare the vegetables and cut them all in fine shreds, add them to the stock and allow them to cook until tender. When ready, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of eggs beaten up with a little water, the chopped parsley and seasoning to taste. Do not boil again. Cut the toast in small pieces, put it in a hot soup tureen and pour the broth boiling hot over it. Time to cook, about A hour. Probable cost, lOi. Quantity, 2|- pints. 104. Fish Soup, 1, White (Soupe au Poisson) 1£ lbs. of white fish or fish trimmings. 3 pts. cold water. 2 leeks. A small piece of carrot and turnip. A bunch of herbs. Some parsley stalks. 6 white peppercorns. 1 blade of mace. 3 cloves. \ tea-sp. celery seed. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. £ pt. milk. Any white fish may be used for this soup, such as whiting, flounder, haddock, or cod, trimmings of fish or a cod’s head. Wash the fish well and cut it in small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the cold water (which should cover it), add a little salt and bring to the boil. Skim well and boil about 10 minutes. Then remove a few nice pieces of fish free from skin and bone, and reserve them for serving in the soup. Prepare the vegetables and add them to the soup with the bunch of herbs and spices tied in muslin. Let all simmer slowly from 1| to 2 hours. If a cod’s head is used, rather longer time will be required. When well cooked, strain through a fine wire sieve into a basin, rub- bing through a little of the fish and vegetables, but being careful that none of the bones slip through. Rinse out the saucepan and melt the butter in it, add the flour and mix until smooth, Then pour in the sieved soup and stir until boiling. Add the milk, chopped parsley, and pieces of fish, which were reserved, and cook the soup a few minutes longer. Note.—The yolk of an egg may be put in the soup tureen and the hot soup poured on to it, stirring all the time. Or a garnish of small egg balls (see Recipe 1287) may be served in the soup. Time to cook, about 2 horns. Quantity, 2} pints. 105. Fish Soup, 2 (Soupe au Poisson) 1 small filleted fish. 1 qt. fish stock. 2 onions. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. cornflour. 1 French roll. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onions peeled and thinly sliced and fry them to a pale