46 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD good served cold with vinaigrette sauce. The 2s. Quantity, 3 pints. 21. Peasants’ Soup (Soupe a la Paysanne) 4 pt. lentils. 2 qts. cold water. 2 pigs’ feet (salted). 1 onion. 1 carrot. 2 or 3 sticks of celery. Wash the lentils and let them soak overnight in 1 quart of cold water. Wash and blanch the feet, that is, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring to the boil, pom- the water away, and rinse the feet. Now return the feet to the saucepan with 1 quart fresh cold water and add the lentils along with the water in which they were soaked. Bring to the boil and add the vegetables, all prepared, and cut in small pieces. Allow the soup to simmer slowly until the feet and lentils are quite tender, about 2 hours. Then lift out the feet and cut the meat from them into small neat pieces. Rub the rest of the soup through a sieve or colander, return it to the saucepan to reheat, season to taste, and add the pieces of meat. Notes.—If preferred the soup may be served without sieving. Peas may be used instead of lentils, but they will require rather longer time to cook. Time to cook, 2\ horns. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 3 pints. 22. Pot-au-Feu 4 lbs. shin or round of beef. 4 qts. cold water. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. 1 parsnip. 3 or 4 sticks of celery. 3 or 4 leeks. A bunch of herbs. 1 small cabbage. 20 black peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 small blade of maco. Crushed tapioca or sago. Salt to taste. This is the French national soup, and it is very often made in a large earthenware pot, sold specially for the purpose. The liquid part is called “ le bouillon,” and the meat from which it is made “ le bouilli.” Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and tie it in shape with a piece of tape. Put it into a large pot with the water, and bring to the boil. Add a good tea-spoonful of salt and skim well. Then allow the meat to simmer very gently for 2 hours. Mean- while have all the vegetables carefully cleaned and prepared, and, with the exception of the cabbage, cut them in moderate-sized pieces and tie them up in a piece of muslin. 'When the meat has simmered the required time, add the vegetables to the pot with a bunch of herbs and the spices, also tied in a piece of muslin. Simmer gently for 2 hours longer. Then add the cabbage, cleaned and trimmed, cut in two and tied together with a piece of tape. Cook again until the cabbage is tender, from £ to J of an hour. Lift out the meat on to a hot dish, remove the tape, garnish with the vegetables, and pour some of the bouillon round as gravy. Or the vegetables may be put in a separate dish and some good tomato sauce served with the meat. Remove all grease from the top of the liquid in the pot, sprinkle in the crushed tapioca or sago, allowing 1 oz. to each quart, and cook until quite transparent. Season to taste and serve in a hot soup tureen. See also La Petite Marmite (Recipe 143) and Croftte-au-Pot (Recipe 8). Notes.—The meat from the pot-au-feu is very carcase of a fowl boiled along with the meat will very much improve the flavour of the soup. Time to cook, 5 to 6 hours. Probable cost, 3*. Quantity, 6 or 6 pints. 23. Rabbit Soup, Brown (Potage de Lapin) 1 small rabbit. 2 oz. fat bacon. A piece of carrot, tur- nip, and celery. 2 onions. 3 pts. meat boilings. A small bunch of herbs. 1 table-sp. crushed tapioca. 1 dessert-sp. Worcester sauce. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. Prepare the rabbit as in Recipe 1192 and dry the pieces very well. Cut the fat bacon in small pieces, melt it in a saucepan and put in the pieces of rabbit and vegetables cut in thin slices. Fry these over the fire until they are nicely browned and add the meat boilings slowly. When boiling, skim well, add the bunch of herbs and simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, or until all the goodness is drawn from the rabbit. Then strain through a fine sieve into a basin and remove all grease from the top of the stock. Reheat this in the saucepan and add to it some of the meat from the rabbit, either pounded and sieved or cut in small pieces. When boiling sprinkle in the tapioca and cook it until quite trans- parent. Add other seasonings to taste and serve with toast cut in dice. Notes.—Small forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288) may also be served in this soup. Remains of cooked rabbit may be used; they will not require so long to cook as a fresh rabbit. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. Quantity, 2£ pints. 24. Scotch Broth (Potage Ecossais) 2 lbs. runner or flank of beef. 2 qts. cold water. 1 tea-cupful carrot cut in dice. 1 tea-cupful turnip cut in dice. 3 leeks. 1 table-sp. barley. 2 table-sp. dried green peas. 1 carrot grated. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper and salt. Wipe the meat, tie it together if necessary with a piece of tape, and put it into a saucepan with the cold water (there should be enough to cover it). Add to it the peas, which have been well washed and soaked overnight in cold water, also the barley previously soaked and blanched in cold water. Bring these to the boil, add a little salt and skim well. Have the carrot and turnip cut in dice, and the leeks well washed and cut in thin slices. Add these next, and simmer slowly for 2\ hours, skimming when necessary. Twenty minutes before serving, add the other carrot grated, which helps to thicken the soup; and 5 minutes before serving, the chopped parsley. Season to taste and serve the meat separately with a little of the broth strained round it. Notes.—'Whole rice may be used instead of barley, and fresh green peas instead of the dried. If the soup reduces very much while cooking, more water must be added. Time to cook, 3 hours. Probable cost. Is. 8d. to