HERBS, SPICES, CONDIMENTS 633 them in a cloth, pack them into dry bottles, not more than three parts filling them, and fill up with vinegar, which has been brought to the boil with the proportion of 1 dessert-spoonful of salt and 6 peppercorns to each pint. Cork tightly and tie over with moistened bladder. These should be kept two months at least before using. They will be found an excellent substitute for capers. 3058. To Pickle Onions 1 qt. small silver onions. 1 qt. white wine vinegar. 1 oz. white peppercorns. £ oz. allspice. 3 or 4 cloves. 1 dessert-sp. salt. Choose very small onions for pickling. Peel them under water, and use a silver knife to prevent their discolouring. Put all the other ingredients into a saucepan, and bring them to the boil. Re- move the scum, and simmer a few minutes until the vinegar is well flavoured with the spices. Dry the onions, throw them into the boiling vinegar, and let them cook 5 minutes or until they turn clear. Then pour them into a strong jar or bottle, cork or tie down securely, and keep a month before using. 3059. Pickled Red Cabbage 2 firm red cabbages. Salt. 1 qt. brown vinegar. | oz. peppercorns. £ oz. allspice. | oz. whole ginger. J oz. cloves. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Remove any decayed and outside leaves from the cabbages. Cut them in quarters and remove all the hard stalk from the centre. Then take each quarter, and, with a sharp knife, cut it across in very fine shreds. Spread this shred cabbage on a large dish, sprinkling a good handful of fine salt over each layer of cabbage. Place another dish on the top, and let this stand for two days. Then strain off the liquid, shake the cabbage dry in a salad basket or strong cloth, and put it into stone or earthenware jars. Put the vinegar into a saucepan, add to it the spices tied in muslin, boil together for a few minutes, add the carmine, cool and strain. Pour this spiced vinegar over the cabbage (there should be enough to cover it), and cover the jars tightly. This pickle will be ready for use in two or three days ; it will keep for several months, but loses some of its crispness after a time. 3060. Green Tomato Pickle 2 qts. green tomatoes. 2 table-sps. salt. 1 qt. vinegar. 1 gill treacle or syrup. 1 table-sp. mustard. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 3 large onions, i tea-sp. cayenne pepper. Wipe the tomatoes, remove the stalks, and cut them in thin slices. Sprinkle them with the salt and let them stand for 24 hours. Put the vinegar,' treacle, mustard, curry powder, and spice into a saucepan, and bring them almost to boiling point. Add the tomatoes, the onion very thinly sliced, and cayenne pepper. Cook for five minutes and pour into bottles or jars. Cover in the usual way. This pickle is excellent. 3061. Tomato Store Sauce 6 lbs. tomatoes. 1 doz. peppercorns. 5 or 6 shallots. 1 qt. vinegar. 1 table-spoonful salt. \ tea-sp. cayenne. Choose ripe English tomatoes for making this sauce. Wipe them, remove the stalks, and cut them in quarters. Put them into a preserving pan with the other ingredients, and stew slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring occasionally. From 2 to 3 hours will be required to cook the tomatoes thoroughly. When ready, rub the mixture through a hair sieve, using a wooden spoon; then allow it to cool, and bottle and cork tightly. Note.—The best brown malt vinegar should be used. 3062. Pickled Walnuts Green walnuts. Vinegar. Spices. Salt. Gather the walnuts about the beginning of July, or before the shells begin to form. If too hard they will not pickle well. Wipe them, prick them with a darning needle or fork to allow the flavouring to penetrate, and put them into a large crock or basin. Now make enough brine to cover them, allowing £ lb. salt to each quart of boiling water. When quite cold, pour this over the walnuts and leave them in it about a fortnight. They ought to be stirred occasionally and the brine changed twice during this time. Now drain the walnuts, spread them out in a single layer on dishes or trays, and leave them to dry in the sun until they turn black. From 12 to 24 hours will be sufficient. Have ready some dry wide-necked bottles, three parts fill them with the walnuts, and fill up with vinegar prepared in the following manner. Prepared, Vinegar.—To 1 quart best vinegar allow £ oz. each of black peppercorns, allspice, and bruised ginger, \ tea-spoonful salt, and a little grated horse-radish. (The spices can be varied to taste, and a little garlic may be added.) Boil all together from 10 to 15 minutes, and use at once. Cork the walnuts very tightly, tie a piece of moistened bladder over the top, and store a month at least before using; they will be better if kept for several months. 3063. Essence of Hawthorn Hawthorn or may blossom. Brandy. Take some petals of hawthorn when they are at their best and freshest, and put them into a scrupu- lously clean and dry bottle, filling it about three parts full. Fill up with good brandy, and cork tightly. Keep this in a cool place for three or four weeks, and then strain oS into another bottle. This makes a delicious flavouring for creams and cus- tards, or it may be used as a liqueur. 3064. Lemon or Orange Sugar Grate the yellow rind of 1 or 2 lemons or oranges on to £ lb. castor sugar. Rub together with the tips of the fingers or the blade of a knife, until a uniform yellow colour, dry and keep in an air-tight box for use. 3065^ Vanilla Sugar Take £ oz. vanilla pod, cut it in pieces, and put it in a mortar with £ lb. castor sugar. Pound to a powder, and pass through a fine sieve. Keep in an air-tight tin box or bottle. This is useful for flavouring purposes.