COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 222 876. Curried Ox Palates (Palais de Bceuf en Karl) 3 ox palates. 3 onions. 1 apple. 1 tomato. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. salt. I pint brown stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. 1 lump of sugar. 1 dessert-sp. ground rice 1 table-sp. ketchup. Boiled rice. Prepare and cook the palates as in Recipe 873, and press them until cold. Then cut them in pieces about 1 £ inches square. Slice the onion, apple, and tomato, and put them into a stewpan with the butter. Put the lid on the pan, and steam the contents slowly until they are tender without allow- ing them to take colour. Mix the curry powder smoothly with the stock, and add this to the stew- pan with the salt, lemon juice, brandy, and sugar. When boiling, put in the pieces of palate and simmer gently for half an hour. Then take out the palates and strain the sauce. Return the sauce to the stewpan, and add the ground rice mixed smoothly with the ketchup. Stir for a few minutes over the fire, then return the palates, and cook for a few minutes longer. One table-spoonful of cream would be an improved addition. Serve the palates on a hot dish with a border of boiled rice round. 877. Ox Palates with Parsley Sauce (Palais de Bceuf a la Maitre d’Hotel) 2 or 3 ox palates, ljoz. butter, loz. flour. Salt. Pepper. | pt. stock. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. A squeeze of lemon juice. Prepare and cook the palates in stock as directed in Recipe 873, and when quite tender cut them in convenient-sized pieces. Slake a sauce with half the butter, the flour, and \ pint of the stock in which the palates were cooked. (If this has reduced too much, make up the quantity with water or milk.) Add the palates to the sauce and simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Then put in the remainder of the butter, broken in small pieces, the parsley and lemon juice. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and serve garnished with fried croutons or small pieces of toast. Stewed macaroni or tomatoes is a nice accompaniment to this dish. 878. Stewed Ox Tail (Queue de Boeuf en Ragout) 1 ox tail. 1 pt. brown stock. A piece of carrot and turnip. 1 onion. A small bunch of herbs. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. fat bacon or clari- fied dripping. Salt. Pepper. Juice of \ lemon. Garnish. Fancy shapes of carrot and turnip. Wash the tail, cut it at the joints in 2-inch lengths and trim away all superfluous fat. Put the pieces into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, add a little salt and bring to the boil. Boil for ten minutes, then strain and rinse the pieces of tail. Dry them well and coat them with the flour. Melt the bacon fat or dripping in a stewpan ; when smoking hot put in the tail, and fry it a nice brown colour on all sides. Add some small pieces of vegetables for flavouring, the bunch of herbs, stock and seasoning. Cover the saucepan and cook slowly at the side of the fire or in the oven, skimming if necessary. When the tail is tender, lift the pieces on to a hot dish ; skim the sauce, add the lemon juice and strain through a fine strainer over and round the tail. Garnish with fancy shapes of carrot and turnip which have been cooked separately and serve very hot. Potato balls or potatoes ft la duchesse would be a nice accompaniment. Note.—A glass of sherry or claret may be added to this stew if liked, and a small piece of beef or ox kidney may be cut up and stewed along with the ox tail. Instead of carrot and turnip, green peas, French beans, sprigs of cauliflower, &c., may be used as a garnish. Time to stew, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 879. Fried Ox Tail with Tartare Sauce (Queue de Boeuf k la Tartare) 1 cooked ox tail. A little flour. 1 egg. 1 table-sp. salad oil. Seasoning. Bread-crumbs. Tartare sauce. Prepare and blanch an ox tail as in last recipe, cutting it in short lengths. Then cook it in stock until tender, drain, and allow the pieces to cool. Or, the remains of an ox tail which has been used for soup may be employed for the purpose. Dry the pieces well and coat them lightly with flour. Mix the salad oil and seasoning with an egg on a plate, and egg and bread-crumb the pieces of tail. Then fry them in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain well and serve them on a hot dish garnished with parsley. Serve tartare sauce (Recipe 759) separately. 880. Ox Tongue, To Pickle Choose a nice fresh tongue with a smooth skin and prepare it carefully. Wash and scrape it thoroughly until all the slimy substance is removed, then rinse in fresh cold water and dry. Trim away some of the root, gristle, and superfluous fat, and rub the tongue well with common salt, being particular to go over every part. Now set it aside and let it drain for several hours, or overnight. Prepare some pickle as directed in Recipe 861, and when cool strain it over the tongue. The tongue must be completely covered with the liquid (see General Directions for Pickling, p. 219). Allow it to soak for at least a week; from 10 to 12 days will be better if the tongue is liked well salted. 881. Ox Tongue, To Cook (Langue de Bceuf) When choosing an ox tongue, select one with a smooth skin, as a very rough skin is a sign of age. A tongue fresh from the pickle need not be soaked unless it has been very much salted, then an hour or two in cold water will be sufficient. A tongue that has been smoked for some time may require at least 12 hours’ soaking, and the water should be changed once or twice during this time. After soaking, wash the tongue well, trim it neatly at the root, and skewer it into shape. Put a tongue fresh from pickle into lukewarm water, a smoked