POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 301 Mushroom sauce is sometimes served separately. This is a very good way of preparing grouse for breakfast, when little rolls of bacon or mushrooms should accompany them. Grilling or broiling is a very good way of using up birds from which the breast fillets have been removed to make some entree. Time to broil, about 20 minutes. 1230. Grouse a 1’Alsacienne A brace of grouse. Farce au gratin. Slices of fat bacon. A little butter. A little cream. 1 glass Madeira. Foie gras. Brown chaudfroid sauce. Meat or aspic jelly. Prepare some farce au gratin (see Recipe 1271) and stuff the grouse with it. Truss them for roast- ing, tying a piece of fat bacon over the breast. Then brown the birds in a saucepan with a little butter, pour in the Madeira, and cook them in the oven until tender, about 30 minutes. When ready, lift them out and allow them to become cold. Then cut the birds in three, lengthwise, and cut two slices of cooked or preserved foie gras for each. Put the pieces of bird together with a piece of foie gras between each, sticking them together with a little foie gras that has been rubbed through a sieve and mixed with some butter or cream. Give the birds as much their original shape as possible, then coat them with brown chaudfroid sauce (see Recipe 715), using the sauce in a setting condition. Set aside for a short time, then decorate according to taste, and brush them over with a little jelly. Serve them on a croute of fried bread with a little chopped jelly round. Note.—Partridges or other game may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1231. Roast Ortolans (Ortolans Rotis) Follow directions given for Roast Quails (Recipe 1244). From 15 to 20 minutes will be required to cook them. 1232. Roast Partridge (Perdreau Roti) Prepare and serve in the same way as Roast Grouse (Recipe 1228). Time required, about f hour. Partridge 1233. Broiled Partridges (Perdreaux Grilles) 2 or more young par- tridges. Chopped parsley. Chopped mushrooms. Chopped shallot. Pepper and salt. Butter. Browned bread-crumbs. Potato chips. Some good gravy. Pick and clean the partridges, cutting them in halves. Leave on the legs, but cut off the toes. Press the legs well back towards the wings, and make the joint as much in the shape of a cutlet as possible. Mix together some chopped parsley, mushrooms, and shallot with pepper and salt, sprinkle the pieces of partridge with this mixture, and baste them with warm butter. Then sprinkle them with brown bread-crumbs, and broil over a clear fire, basting occasionally with warm butter. Serve very hot, garnished with potato chips. Serve good gravy or some thin brown sauce separately. Time to broil, 20 to 25 minutes. 1234. Partridge with Cabbage (Perdrix aux Choux) 1 partridge. 1 oz. dripping. 1 or 2 cabbages. 3 or 4 oz. ham or lean bacon. 1 or 2 small smoked sausages. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 1 or 2 cloves. A small bunch of herbs. A little stock. Trim the cabbage, cut it in pieces, and wash it well. Use one or two according to size. Plunge the pieces into boiling salted water and let them boil 10 or 12 minutes. Then strain and press out the water. Blanch also the ham or bacon for a few minutes to remove some of the salt. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, put in the partridge trussed as for roasting, and brown it on all sides. Then lift it out and put into the saucepan half the cabbage, with the carrot cut in pieces, the onion stuck with the cloves, and a small bunch of herbs. Lay the partridge, bam, and sausage on the top and the remainder of the cabbage on the top of that. Sprinkle with a little pepper, moisten with a small quantity of stock, and cover well. Cook slowly, in the oven if possible, or at simmering point over the fire, until all is tender. To Serve.—Remove the partridge, ham, and sausage from the saucepan. Cut the partridge into neat joints, and slice the ham and sausage. Re- move the carrot, onion, and bunch of herbs from the cabbage and cut it across with a knife. Arrange it neatly on a hot dish, place the partridge on the top and the ham and sausage round. Note.—A partridge over a year old, as long as it is not too tough, is best for this dish, otherwise if it is very young and'tender it has to be lifted out before the other ingredients are cooked, and the dish has not the same flavour. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1235. Partridges a la Valencienne (Perdreaux a la Valencienne) brace of partridges, f oz. of butter, glass white wine. 1 table-sp. tomato sauce or puree. f pt. brown sauce. Risotto. Shreds of truffle or mushrooms. Prepare the partridges carefully and truss them as for roasting. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the partridges and brown them on all sides. Then pour away the butter and add the wine, brown sauce, and tomato puree. Put the lid on the pan and cook the birds in the oven or by the side of the stove until tender. Meanwhile prepare