COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 66 127. Macedoine Soup (Consomme h, la Macedoine) Prepare in the same way as clear soup a la jardiniere, cuttingthe vegetables in any fancyshapes with small cutters. Fancy Cutters for Vegetables 128. Clear Soup with Noodles (Consomme aux Nouilles) 2 pts. clear stock or I Noodles. consomm6. [ Some light stock. Make the noodles as directed in Recipe 1623. Cook them in boiling salted water for 5 minutes, then drain and let them simmer in light stock from 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are cooked. When ready, strain and add them to the hot soup. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 129. Clear Soup aux (Eufs Files (Consommd aux (Eufs Files) 1 qt. clear stock or con- somme. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. cream. Salt. Pepper, milk or Put the flour, pepper, and salt into a basin, drop in the egg and mix well with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Then pour in the milk, and if time permits allow this batter to stand a short time before using. Put the clear soup into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Strain the batter through a fine strainer into it and cook about 10 minutes. The batter should look like golden threads in the soup. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 130. Clear Soup with Poached Eggs (Consomme h l lmperatrice) 1 qt. clear stock or consomme. 4 eggs. Poach the eggs lightly (see Recipe 1321), throw them in cold water for a moment and then trim them neatly. Heat the consomme and pour it boiling hot over the eggs in the soup tureen, or the eggs may be served separately with just enough hot soup to moisten them. Serve the soup with small round croutons or straws of cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—One egg and half a pint soup should be allowed per person. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2 pints. 131. Clear Partridge Soup (Consomme de Perdrix) 1 or 2 old partridges or pieces of partridge. 1 lb. shin of beef. 3 qts. cold water. A bunch of herbs. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. 2 onions. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 8 white peppercorns. 3 or 4 cloves. 1 small blade of mace. | lb. lean juicy beef or liver for clearing the stock. Salt. Game quenelles, to gar- nish. Prepare the shin of beef as for brown stock (see p. 37). Remove the flesh from the breast of the partridge and reserve it for making the quenelles. Cut the rest in small pieces, and wipe or wash any parts which may require it. Put the prepared game and meat into a saucepan with the cold water and a little salt, and, if time permits, let them soak half an hour. Then put the saucepan on the fire and bring the contents slowly to the boil, and skim well. Next add the vegetables, prepared and cut in small pieces, the herbs and spices. Simmer all slowly from 4| to 5 hours, never letting the contents of the saucepan go off the boil, and removing all scum as it rises. Then strain through a cloth or hair sieve, and stand until cold. Clear the soup with the raw beef or liver according to directions given for consomme (see Recipe 117). Serve withia garnish of game quenelles (see Recipe 1298). Notes.—A darker coloured soup may be obtained by frying the meat and game in a little butter before pouring on the water. The shin of beef may be omitted from the list of ingredients if light stock can be used instead of water. Time to cook, 5 hours first day, 30 to 40 minutes second day. Cost, uncertain. Quantity, 3 to 4 pints. 132. Consomme a la Portugaise Clear soup with a garnish of leeks and French plums. To prepare the leeks, well wash them and cut them in fine shreds of about an inch in length, and stew till tender in light stock. Allow one or two plums to each person, wash them and stew them in light stock until tender. Drain well both the leeks and plums, and add them to the clear consomme. 133. Consomm6 aux Profiteroles This is clear soup with profiteroles (Recipe 1307) served separately. A garnish of green peas and small sprigs of cauliflower may be put into the soup if liked. 134. Clear Soup with Quenelles (Consomme aux Quenelles) 3 pts. clear soup or ] \ lb. chicken or veal consomme. | quenelle meat. Make the quenelles according to directions given in Recipe 1298 and put them in a hot soup tureen. Make the clear soup boiling hot and pour it over them. 135. Clear Ox-tail Soup (Consomme de Queue de Boeuf) 1 ox tail. 1| lb. shin of beef. 3 qts. cold water. 1 turnip. 1 carrot. 1 or 2 onions. 1 stick of celery. A bunch of herbs. 20 black peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 1 glass of sherry. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 whites and shells of eggs. Salt. Cut the tail in joints and remove all superfluous fat. Wash the pieces in cold water with a little salt in it, then put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover, bring to the boil and boil for ten minutes to blanch the tail. Pour away the water, and rinse both the tail and the saucepan with fresh cold water. Wipe the beef with a damp cloth and cut it in small pieces, removing the marrow from the bone, which is not used in the soup. Put the meat, bone, and pieces of tail into the saucepan