BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 589 wooden spoon. Add the sugar and treacle slightly warmed, and beat again for a few minutes. Then add the eggs two at a time, beating the mixture well after each addition. (It will be safer to break the eggs into a small basin previous to adding them to the mixture, to ensure their being fresh.) Have the fruit carefully prepared (p. 551), and mixed with 1 or 2 tablespoonfuls of the flour, and add it next with the milk, brandy, and salt. Dry and sieve the flour, and add it last of all. The mixture must not be beaten after the flour is added. When all is thoroughly blended, pour the mixture into two lined cake tins, one of which is three or four sizes smaller than the other, and bake in a moderate and steady oven. The larger cake will probably require from 4 to 5 hours to bake, and a smaller one less in proportion. When the cakes begin to brown they should be covered with a double fold of 'wetted white paper, to prevent their burning on the top. The success of the cake will depend very much upon the long steady baking. When the cakes are baked and cold, they should be wrapped in a thick sheet of white paper or a cloth, and kept in a tin box for two or three months before being iced or used. Note.—For icing and decoration of cakes, see pp. 591-2. Probable cost, without icing, 6s. PART V CAKE ICINGS AND DECORATIONS 2838. Glac6 Icing | lb. icing sugar. Flavouring and colour- About 3 table-sps. ing to taste, water or other liquid. This is a simple soft icing, and one that is very quickly made. Sieve the sugar and put it into an enamelled saucepan or sugar boiler. Add the liquid very gradually, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until warm. The icing must not be made too hot, or it will become lumpy and have a dull appearance. Whilst adding the liquid it must be borne in mind that, as the sugar melts, the icing will become softer. The icing should be kept thick enough to flow over and coat the back of the spoon, and then it will be of the right consistency for coat- ing the cake. If by any chance this icing should become too soft in the making, it may be stiffened by adding more sieved icing sugar, but it is always better if this has not to be done. The following are a few of the colourings and flavourings in which this icing may be made. 2836. White Sandwich Cake £ lb. flour. | lb. butter. 2 oz. potato flour. I lb. sugar. 4 whites of eggs. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Flavouring. Jam. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin. Sieve the flour and potato flour, and add them gradually along with the milk. Beat well for a few minutes. Then add a few drops of vanilla or other flavouring, and, lastly, the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth and the baking powder. Spread the mixture on a flat tin lined with paper, or on two sandwich cake tins, and bake in a moderate oven until a pretty brown colour and firm to the touch. Turn out on sugared paper when ready, and, when cold, make a sandwich with jam between. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 10d. 2837. Yorkshire Parkin 2839. Chocolate Glacd Shred down 1| to 2 oz. unsweetened chocolate and melt it with very little water until perfectly smooth. Then make some Glace Icing, flavour it with vanilla, and add it to the chocolate. Mix the two together, beating them well, and then use. Sometimes a small piece of butter is added to give the icing a glossy appearance. The icing must on no account boil or it will not be shiny. 2840. Coffee Glace Make the icing according to above recipe, using clear black coffee or essence of coffee to moisten the sugar. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla. 2841. Lemon or Orange Glace Make Glac6 Icing as directed above, using strained orange or lemon juice to moisten it and a little water if necessary. Some yellow colouring may also be added. 2| lbs. oatmeal. 2 lbs. syrup. | lb. white sugar. 1 lb. lard or dripping. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 3 tea-sps. ground ginger. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, mix them thoroughly together, and make a well in the centre. Melt the lard and syrup in a saucepan, pour into the centre of the dry mixture, and add the eggs well beaten. Mix well with a wooden spoon and spread out on a large greased tin to the thickness of about 1 inch. Bake in a moderate oven. Cut in squares while hot, but do not remove from the tin until quite cold. This parkin improves with keeping for two months. Store it in an air- tight tin box. Time to bake, f hour. Probable cost, Is. Gd. 2842. Liqueur Glace Make Glace Icing as directed above, using any liqueur to moisten the sugar along with a little water. Colouring may also be added if wished. 2843. Raspberry or Strawberry Glace Icing Make Glace Icing as directed above, flavouring with raspberry or strawberry essence and colouring it pink with carmine or cochineal. Or, strawberry or raspberry syrup may be used instead of water. 2844. Tea Glace Make in the same way as Coffee Glace, using strong clear tea instead of coffee.