COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 512 fried bread ; spread them with some of the above mixture, lay a sardine on the top of each, and cover with more of the mixture. Sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and place the croutes in a hot oven long enough to warm through. Then serve them at once, garnished with parsley. 2387. Sardine Croutes, 2 (Croutes de Sardines) 3 or 4 sardines. 1 egg. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. J tea-sp. anchovy essence Seasoning Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. Prepare 6 or 7 neat little rounds or fingers of hot buttered toast. Dip the sardines in hot water, then remove the skin and bone, and chop them rather finely. (Any small broken pieces of sardine may be used for this savoury.) Put the butter and milk into a saucepan and heat them over the fire. Now add the egg without beating it, the minced sardine and seasoning, and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken. Then draw the saucepan to one side and stir a few seconds longer. Pile a little of this mixture on each piece of toast, sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley, and serve at once. and stir quickly over the fire until the ingredients form one smooth lump, which draws away easily from the sides, of the saucepan. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, allow the contents to cool slightly, and add the sardine paste (this can be bought ready). Season to taste with cayenne, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Then add the egg and beat it well into the mixture. Now put the mixture into a forcing bag, and force out small portions about the size of a walnut on a sheet of greased paper. When all are ready, slip them off with a palette knife into a saucepan of hot fat, and fry the beignets gently from 5 to 7 minutes, turning them over occasionally with a spoon. Drain and serve piled up on a dish paper as a hot savoury. 2391. Grilled Sardines (Sardines Grilles) Sardines. I Cut lemon. Flour. I Brown bread and butter. Choose small smoked sardines and drain them well from their oil. Then toss them lightly in finely sifted flour, place them on a greased grill, and grill them about 5 minutes. Serve them very hot, garnished with cut lemon, and hand thin brown bread and butter separately. 2388. Fried Sardines Sardines. I Hot buttered toast. Egg and biscuit crumbs. | Lemon and parsley. Choose large sardines, take them from their tin about an hour beforehand and let them drain, as the oil is rich and indigestible. Then egg them and toss in fine biscuit-crumbs. Make them very smooth and tidy, and then fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Have ready a finger of hot buttered toast for each sardine, and put them in the oven to become crisp. Lay a sardine on each, and garnish with thin slices of lemon and small sprigs of parsley. Note.—If preferred, the sardines may be dipped in frying batter instead of the egg and bread- crumbs, or simply tossed in flour. 2389. Sardine Fritters, 1 (Beignets de Sardines) Sardines. Chopped parsley. Chopped shallot. Cayenne pepper. Lemon juice. Frying batter. Remove the bones from the number of sardines required and cut them into neat little fillets. Sprinkle them with the above seasonings and let them lie a short time. Have ready a small quantity of frying batter (Recipe 1861), dip the prepared fillets into it, and then fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain and sprinkle with coralline pepper. Serve piled up on a lace-edged paper, garnished with cut lemon. Note.—Anchovies or small fillets of herring may be prepared in the same way. 2390. Sardine Fritters, 2 (Beignets de Sardines) 1 oz. flour, \ oz. butter. | gill water. 1 egg. sardine 1 dessert-sp. paste. A squeeze of lemon juice. Seasoning. Have the flour dry and finely sifted. Put it jnto/ a small saucepan with the butter and water, 2392. Sardines a la Piedmontaise 6 or 7 small sardines. G or 8 finger-shaped croutons of bread. Sauce. 1| oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. tarragon vine- gar. 1 tea-sp. plain vinegar. 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. Dip the sardines in warm water, wipe them and remove the skin. Then place them on a greased tin, cover with greased paper, and heat them in the oven. Meanwhile prepare the sauce. Put the butter and vinegars into a small saucepan with a pinch of cayenne pepper, salt, and a little made mustard, and heat them over the fire. Then add the yolks of eggs well beaten, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens. Place the sardines on the croutons of fried bread, and put the sauce over them. Sprinkle with parsley or lobster coral and serve very hot. 2393. Sardines Rissolettes 1 table-sp. minced sar- dines. 1 table-sp. white sauce. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning Scraps of pastry. Beaten egg. Remove all skin and bone from some sardines or scraps of sardines, and mince them finely. Put the mince into a small saucepan with the white sauce, yolk of egg and seasoning, and make all hot over the fire without allowing it to boil. Then spread the mixture on a plate to cool. Now roll out some scraps of good pastry very thinly, and cut out rounds with a small fluted cutter. Brush round the edges with beaten egg, and put a small spoonful of the mixture in the middle. Fold over and press the edges together. Place these little crescent-shaped rissolettes on a greased tin, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until brown and crisp. Notes.—These rissolettes may be fried in boiling fat instead of being baked. A few chopped mush- rooms may be added.