COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 278 cover the saucepan closely and cook the contents in the oven, or by the side of the fire, until the chicken is quite tender. The time will depend very much upon the size and age of the bird. If necessary a little extra stock may be added during the cooking, but the tomatoes should not be made too liquid. When ready, lift the chicken on to a hot dish, and remove the trussing thread or string. Skim any superfluous grease off the tomatoes, add the sherry and parsley, taste if sufficiently seasoned, and pour round the chicken without straining. Or, the chicken may be garnished with watercress, and the tomato served separately. Celery or French beans would be a good accompaniment to this dish. Time to cook, If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1130. Spring Chicken, Broiled Only a very young and tender chicken can be cooked in this way. After drawing and singeing, split it open through the back and remove the inside. Flatten and trim it, wipe it well with a damp cloth and then dry it. Cut off the feet and points of the wings, season with pepper, salt, and Chicken prepared for Broiling a little lemon juice, and skewer it open. Then brush over on both sides with melted butter or salad oil and sprinkle with fine browned bread- crumbs. Grill over a clear fire from 25 to 30 minutes, turning the bird occasionally and sprinkling with a little more melted butter. Serve very hot, garnished with watercress and cut lemon. Serve with potato chips, and, if liked, tomato or tartare sauce. 1131. Chicken en Casserole (Poulet en Casserole) 1 chicken. f doz. white onions. 1 cupful carrot and turnip. 1 or 2 sticks of celery, f pt. stock. 2 bay-leaves. Salt. Pepper. Clean and wash the chicken, and truss it for boiling. Put it into a fireproof pot with a lid, and add the onions peeled, a cupful of carrot and turnip cut in fancy shapes or in dice, the celery cut in shreds and the bay-leaves. Heat the stock, pour it over the top and put on the lid. Cook in a moderate oven until the chicken is quite tender, basting occasionally with the stock. When ready, season with pepper and salt, untruss the bird and cut it in joints. Serve in the pot. This is one of the tastiest ways of cooking a chicken. Chicken en Casserole Notes.—A few mushrooms cut in pieces or some pieces of tomato may be added if wished. Pigeons and other birds may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, from If to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1132. Curried Chicken (Poulet en Kari) A small chicken. 1 Spanish onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. curry paste. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. A little flour. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Stock. Lemon juice. Boiled rice. Cut the chicken into neat joints, removing as much of the skin as possible. If no stock is avail- able, break up the bones and trimmings, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and some vegetable flavourings, and allow them to simmer until the goodness is extracted. Then strain. Skin and scald the onion, and cut it in thin slices. Then fry it in the butter until a light brown colour. Coat the pieces of chicken with a little flour and add them to the onions with the sugar, salt, chutney, and the curry powder and curry paste mixed smoothly with a very little stock. Cook ten minutes over a moderate fire, turning the mixture occasionally and adding a little more butter if necessary. Then pour in enough stock to barely cover the contents of the saucepan, put on the lid and simmer slowly until the chicken is tender. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and if possible, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream. When ready, arrange the pieces of chicken neatly on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Serve boiled rice separately, or rice timbales (Recipe 1604) round the dish. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1133. Fricassee of Chicken (Fricassee de Volaille) 1 chicken. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. Boiling water. 2 or 3 white onions. Salt. White pepper. A small bunch of herbs. 2 or 3 table-sps. bottled mushrooms. 2 yolks of eggs. LemOn juice. Croutons of fried bread. Parsley. Clean and wash the chicken and cut it in 8 or 10 neat pieces. If wished very white, put the pieces in boiling water for 5 minutes, then plunge them into cold water and allow them to remain