SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 273 line about a dozen small tartlet tins. Prick them at the bottom, line with paper, and fill up with rice. Bake them in the oven until nicely browned, and then remove the filling. Ham Mixture.—Trim the ham, put it through the mincing machine, and then weigh it. Pound it well in a mortar with a little butter and season with Paprika pepper. Add the yolks of eggs, and white sauce, which should be rather thick and not hot. Pound again, add the cream and then rub all through a wire sieve. Grease about a dozen small dariole moulds, three parts fill them with the mixture, cover with greased paper, and poach them in the oven. The water round them must not be allowed to boil. Meanwhile, peel one or two tomatoes, squeeze out the soft inside and cut them in small pieces. Cook these in a little butter, seasoning with pepper and salt, and add a little stock or sauce if necessary. Also stone the olives and heat them in a little boiling stock. To Serve.—Put a little of the tomato mixture into each pastry case, and turn out one of the ham darioles on the top. Place an olive on the top of each and mask with a very little sauce. Either brown or tomato sauce may be used, but it should be thin and clear. Use very little, as the pastry must not be made soft; an extra supply may be served separately if wished. Note.—The above mixture may be steamed in one large mould and served without the pastry cases. It will be better then to add 2 whole eggs. Sufficient for 10 to 12 persons. 1123, Parfait de Foie Gras 1 cupful foie gras. 1 to 2 oz. fresh butter. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. whipped cream. A few drops of carmine. 3 or 4 truffles. 1 table-sp. brandy or white wine. Aspic jelly. Either fresh or preserved foie gras may be used for making a parfait. If fresh it must be cooked. This is a very good way of using up the remains of foie gras. Remove all grease from the outside, and put it into a mortar with a good piece of softened, but not melted, fresh butter. Pound together and then rub through a hair sieve. Season this puree well and according to taste, and if preserved foie gras has been used, add a few drops of pink colouring. Add the cream, not too much, and mix lightly together. Then take a mould, one in imitation of a foie gras is best, but any simple mould will do, three parts fill it with the mixture, and make a hollow in the centre. Put into this hollow 3 or 4 truffles cut in shreds and soaked in a little brandy. Cover with more of the mixture, set the mould on ice, and let it remain until firm. Then turn out, decorate the top with slices of truffle, inserting them in small slits made in the sides of the parfait with a knife. Then brush over the top with aspic jelly in a setting condition, and put some chopped aspic round the base. 1124. Beignets de Foie Gras a l’Orlie Foie gras. Seasoning. I Coralline pepper. Prying batter. I Tomato sauce. Prepare some frying batter as in Recipe 1861, allowing it to stand 2 hours if possible, and stirring in the beaten whites of eggs at the last. Cut some nice slices of foie gras, season them with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, dip each one into the batter, cover well, then slip into a saucepan of boiling fat. Fry until crisp and of a golden brown colour, drain on paper, then dish up on a folded serviette, and sprinkle lightly with coralline pepper. Serve well- made tomato sauce separately. 1125. J*etits Pains de Foie Gras 1 pt. aspic jelly. 1 small tin or pot of foie gras. 1 gill velout6 or su- preme sauce. Pepper and salt. 1 yolk of egg. 1 large truffle. 1 hard-boiled egg. Some cooked tongue. Salad. Line 6 to 8 small timbale moulds with half-set aspic jelly, and decorate them at the bottom with a round or fancy shape of truffle, with a ring of chopped white of egg and a ring of chopped tongue round. Set the decoration with some liquid jelly. Garnish the sides alternately with fancy shapes of truffle, tongue, and white of egg, setting all with more aspic. To Prepare the Foie Gras.—Remove first the lard from the top and take out any truffle. Pound the foie gras in a mortar with the yolk of egg, sauce, and seasoning. Mix well and rub through a sieve. Then work in the remainder of the aspic jelly, and add the truffle chopped. Fill the moulds when the mixture begins to set, and keep them on ice until wanted. Turn out and serve cold, garnished with salad or chopped jelly. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.