360 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD instead of the wine if preferred. Make a flan or pastry case 6 or 7 inches in diameter, as directed on p. 358, prick it well at the bottom, but do not bake it. Fill it with the greengages, arranging the pieces neatly in circles and one leaning against another. Pour any liquid there may be left on the dish over them, sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a good moderate oven, until both pastry and fruit are thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle with, sugar and remove the tart ring before serving. Note.—Apricots and other plums can be used in the same way. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. trimmed and well drained from their syrup. Arrange them in a circle on the top of the custard, leaving an open space in the middle. Then take a puree of chestnuts, sweetened and flavoured and mixed with a little whipped cream (Recipe 1628), put it into a forcing bag with a large fancy pipe at the end of it and force it out in the centre of the pears in the form of a dome. Decorate with glace cherries and lozenge-shaped pieces of angelica, and serve cold. Note.—Apples, apricots, or peaches may be used instead of the pears. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 1542. Flan of Peaches (Flan de Peehes) Tinned peaches. 2 eggs. Juice of £ lemon. 1 gill peach syrup. Castor sugar. 2 table-sps. cake-crumbs Short crust. Prepare and bake a flan of pastry as directed on p. 358. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter. Take 4 or 5 pieces of tinned peach and cut them in small pieces. Strain one gill of the syrup into a saucepan, add the juice of half a lemon and a little sugar, bring to the boil and simmer for ten minutes. Then remove the sauce- pan from the fire, add the two yolks of egg, one at a time, and cook carefully until they thicken the syrup without boiling. Turn this custard into a basin and let it cool. When the pastry case is ready, sprinkle in the crumbs, put in the pieces of peach and cover with the custard. Then make a meringue with the two whites of egg and little sugar, and pile it roughly on the top. Dredge with a little more sugar and bake in a fairly cool oven, until the meringue hardens and becomes a golden brown. Remove the ring from the tart and serve it either hot or cold. Note.—Other tinned fruits may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1544. Flan of Raspberries with Cream (Flan de Framboises a la Chantilly) An open tart or flan. 1 lb. raspberries. 2 table-sps. cake or macaroon crumbs. Sugar. 2 table-sps. red-currant or gooseberry jelly. 1J gills double cream Vanilla flavouring. Angelica. Make a flan or open tart as directed on p. 358, bake it and allow it to cool. It should be 6 or 7 inches in diameter. Pick the raspberries, put aside a few of the best for decoration, and sprinkle the remainder with finely sifted sugar and, if liked, a table-spoonful of liqueur. Let them stand in a cool place for § hour. Sprinkle the bottom of the flan with macaroon or cake crumbs, arrange the raspberries on the top, and coat them over with the jelly. Whip the cream, add a little sugar, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Put this cream into a forcing bag and force it out on the top of the tart, covering the fruit entirely. Garnish with raspberries and a little angelica cut in lozenge- shaped pieces. Note.—A strawberry tart can be made in the same way. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10 d. 1543. Pear and Chestnut Tart or Flan (Flan de Poires aux Marrons) Open tart or flan of pastry. 1 cupful thick custard. 6 pears stewed in syrup. Puree of chestnuts with cream. Cherries and angelica. First make a flan or open case of pastry 6 or 7 inches in diameter and as directed on p. 358. Bake it, and allow it to cool. Then spread at the bottom some thick custard sweetened and flavoured. Have the pears cut in halves, neatly 1545. Strawberry Flan with Meringue (Tarte de Fraises Meringuee) 1 lb. strawberries. 2 or 3 table-sps. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. powdered cin- namon. 2 whites of egg. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. A flan or open tart of pastry. Make and bake a flan of pastry 6 or 7 inches in diameter as directed on p. 358. Meanwhile pick and wash the strawberries and let them be- come quite dry. When the pastry case is ready, fill it with the strawberries, arranging them neatly and as close together as possible. Sprinkle them with sugar and a little powdered cinnamon. Now beat up the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, add to them a little castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla, and spread this over the tart so as to completely cover the strawberries. Sprinkle with more sugar and return to the oven until the meringue is crisp and lightly browned. Servo on a round dish with a lace-edged paper under it. A jug of cream may be handed separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d.