HERBS, SPICES, CONDIMENTS 631 they are used to flavour both sweet and savoury dishes. Ground cloves are also useful for flavouring purposes. Coriander (coriandre).—The ripe and dried fruit of an annual found in Southern Europe, and also cultivated in our own country. The coriander fruit, or so-called seed, is valuable on account of its pleasant and pungent flavour. It is used in confectionery and for flavouring liqueurs and cordials; it also forms an important ingredient in curry powder. The young leaves of the plant are sometimes used in salads. Curry (cari).—The name given to a powder or paste made from a mixture of various spices, in- cluding chillies, coriander, ginger, turmeric, &c. It is only to be had in perfection in the East, where it is manufactured from the fresh ingredients. The name is also applied to any dish flavoured with curry. Ginger (gingembre).—The dried and scraped root or underground stem of the ginger plant, which grows principally in Brazil and the West Indies. It has an agreeable and aromatic odour and strong pungent taste, and is one of the most valuable of spices. It is of a pale yellowish brown colour and striated in appearance. It can be obtained whole or in a ground form, and is also very good when crystallised or preserved in syrup. Mustard (moutarde).—Made from the seeds of the mustard plant, of which there are two kinds, the black and the white. Table mustard is made from both kinds of seeds ground together. The seed- lings of the white mustard plant are also used in salads. Nutmeg and Mace (muscade).—A nutmeg is the kernel of the stone of a pear-shaped fruit belonging to a tree which grows in the Moluccas and other hot climates. It is used in a grated form, and is useful for flavouring both sweet and savoury dishes. As it is strongly aromatic, it must be used with caution. Mace is the outer covering of the nutmeg flattened and dried. It is of an orange-yellow colour, and is used both whole and in a ground form. Pepper (poivre).—Made from the dried berries of a plant, which is cultivated in most tropical countries. The berries, which grow in clusters, are first green, then turn to red, and then to yellow. When the red berries are dried they become black. Black pepper is made by grinding the berries just as they are. To make white pepper, the dried berries are soaked and the skin and fleshy parts removed, the seed alone being ground. Mignonette pepper is white pepper coarsely ground or crushed. Cayenne.—The name given to a very strong pepper made from the dried pods and seeds of various kinds of capsicums. It is bright red in colour, very pungent and stimulating. It takes its name from Cayenne in South America, from whence it came originally. Paprika or Krona pepper.—This is also a red pepper which is made from the Hungarian paprika, a capsicum pod, which is much less strong and pungent than cayenne. Turmeric (curcuma) is obtained from the tuber of a plant belonging to the same family as ginger, which is dried and ground. It has a rather peculiar odour, and yields a large quantity of yellow matter. It is much used in the making of curry, and it is to turmeric that the colour of curry powder is largely due. Vanilla (vanille).—The dried fruit or pod of a kind of climbing orchid, which grows in the tropics. It is much valued on account of its delicious aro- matic fragrance, and is largely used for flavouring puddings, cakes, chocolates, and liqueurs. Vinegar (vinaigre).—A very important condi- ment, which is obtained from various sources. In this country it is generally made from malt or acetic acid, but on the Continent large quantities are made from wine or grape juice. The French and Italian red and white wine vinegars are con- sidered the best. Special flavourings are some- times added, as in tarragon, chilli, and spiced vinegars, \inegar is largely used for preserving and pickling. It helps to soften the fibre of meat and to make it tender, and is also useful for giving a piquant flavour to certain dishes. Ketchup or Catsup is a valuable condiment made usually from walnuts, tomatoes, or mushrooms by squeezing out their juice, boiling this juice down and adding various seasonings to it. It forms the foundation of a number of bottled sauces. 3047. Herbs, To Dry The most suitable herbs for drying are: balm, basil, marjoram, mint, sage, savoury, and common and lemon thyme. They must be picked in good condition, and before they begin to flower. Gather the herbs on a fine day, when they are free from moisture, spread them out on sheets of paper, dry them in the sun, in a cool oven with the door left slightly open, or on the rack above the fire. Unless the drying is done fairly quickly the herbs will lose their colour. When ready, strip the leaves from the stalks, dry them again if neces- sary, and then rub them through a fine sieve. Put the powder into perfectly dry bottles, keeping each sort separate, and cork tightly. Label the bottles and store them in a dry place. This is a better and cleaner method than hanging up the bunches of herbs to dry. When required for flavouring soups and sauces, a small quantity of the powder should be tied up in a piece of muslin. 3048. Herb Seasoning or Aromatic Spice Take 1 oz. each of thyme, basil, marjoram, and summer savoury, 2 bay-leaves, 2 cloves, a blade of mace, 1 tea-spoonful dried and grated iemon rind, J tea-spoonful grated nutmeg, and a pinch of cayenne. Pound all together in a mortar, rub through a fine sieve, and bottle for use. This will be found useful for flavouring stuffings, sauces, and savoury meat dishes. The flavour is excellent. 3049. A Bunch of Herbs or Bouquet Garni This is used for flavouring sauces, soups, stews, and other savoury meat dishes. It is usually com- posed of a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme and marjoram wrapped up in parsley, and tied together with a piece of cotton. A small piece of basil, tarragon, and a little lemon rind are sometimes added. 3050. Herb Vinegar Herb vinegar is very easily made, and especially by those who have herbs growing fresh in their own