BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 593 colouring, and flavour with almond, raspberry, rose, or strawberry essence. Chocolate.—Use a little unsweetened chocolate, melting it first over the fire or in the oven, and then adding it. Flavour with vanilla. Coffee.—Add some strong coffee essence and flavour with vanilla. Oreen.—Colour with a little green colouring, and flavour with essence of almond, or some liqueur. Yellow.—Mix in some yellow colouring, and flavour with essence of lemon or orange. One colour may also be turned into another thus: Yellow into orange by adding a little red ; pink into purple by adding a little blue; yellow into green by adding a little blue, and so on. If, after use, a little of this icing is left, it may be kept for a day or two by pouring some water on the top. Pour the water off before using again. To Use Fondant Icing Follow directions given for using Glac6 Icing (see p. 590). Arrange any decoration on the cakes while the icing is still soft, and place the cakes in a cool oven with the door open for a few minutes. There must just be sufficient heat to dry the icing and give it a gloss, but not to brown it. Some Cake Decorations The following are a few of the materials which may be used for decorating cakes : Coloured Sugars.—Put some coarse granulated sugar on to a stiff sheet of white paper, and pour a few drops of liquid colouring on the top. Work this in with the point of a knife until an even tint is obtained, and then leave the sugar to dry. Pink, green, yellow, &c., sugar may be made in this way, and these sugars will keep if put in corked bottles. Pistachio Kernels.—Put these into cold water, and bring them quickly to the boil. Then drain, and pour plenty of cold water over them. Rub off the skins, and dry the pistachios in a cloth. Shred or chop before using. Browned or Coloured Almonds.—First blanch the almonds, and dry them thoroughly. Then shred them finely, or chop them rather roughly. To brown the almonds, put them on a tin in a very moderate oven, and keep turning them over and over until very evenly and lightly browned. To colour them, sprinkle a few drops of colouring on the top, and rub it into the almonds. Pistachio nuts (which are much more expensive than almonds) may be imitated by colouring the almonds pale green. Cocoanut.—This may also be browned or col- oured in the same way as almonds, and used for decorating purposes. Candied Cherries and other Fruits.—These are very pretty and useful for decorating cakes, and as they will keep almost indefinitely in an air-tight tin box, they are not expensive. They are gener- ally cut in pieces unless they are very small. _ Angelica.—This is also a very effective decora- tion. If it is hard and sugary, soak it in warm water for a minute or two, then dry. Cut it first into thin strips, then into diamond-shaped pieces to represent leaves, stars, rounds, &c. A com- bination of angelica and cherries is very pretty. Nuts, such as walnuts, filberts, Barcelona nuts. &c., either plain, or iced, or caramelise^, may also be used. Bon-bons.—These may be had in many forms, and if tastefully used they make a very simple and easy decoration. Silver and gold dragees are among the most useful. Flowers, both artificial and real, make a very effective and simple decoration. Crystallised Flowers.—These can be bought ready, such as rose petals, violets, orange flowers, lilac ; and leaves to suit can be cut from angelica, or even from citron peel. ' Caramelised Fruits.—This is a somewhat more elaborate form of decoration, but one that may be very lovely and very uncommon. A syrup of sugar and water must first be prepared for cara- melising the fruits. Take, say, half a pound of loaf sugar, put it into an enamelled saucepan or sugar boiler, and just moisten with cold water. Melt slowly over the fire, skim, and then boil quickly until the syrup is a golden brown colour. Add a few drops of lemon juice, or two or three drops of acetic acid. Remove the saucepan at once from the fire, and dip the bottom of it into cold water to stop the boiling. The caramel is now ready, and must be used immediately. Any fruit used must be perfectly dry or it will spoil the caramel. The following are a few examples of what may be used and how to prepare them : Oranges.—Divide into sections, free from pith, and if any juice oozes from them, dry in the oven. They are better prepared the night before they are wanted. Grapes.—Wipe, and dry in the oven, leaving a piece of stalk. Red or White Currants.— Prepare in the same way as grapes. Apricots or Greengages.—Cut in halves and dry. Walnuts or Hazel Nuts.—Shell, roast, and, if liked, stick two together with a little almond paste. Drop the fruits a few at a time into the caramel, coat either one or all sides, lift out with a fork or wire ring, and place on a greased tin or wire stand. JDisturb the caramel as little as possible when lifting out the fruits, and it will keep longer. Hints on Decorating Cakes Cakes, as well as other eatables, should be made to look pretty as well as to taste good. Of course, many cakes are better left in their simple state with- out any decoration at all, and when this is the case particular care should be taken with the baking to avoid overcooking or burning, and consequently an unsightly appearance. In no circumstances should a cake be over- decorated, and there are many simple and harm- less forms of decoration which may be employed. One of the simplest forms of decoration is a sprinkling of sugar, or the cake may be brushed over with white of egg and sprinkled with sugar in two colours, or even chopped nuts. Another simple decoration is to spread a thin coating of jam or jelly over the cake, and then to sprinkle with browned or coloured almonds, cocoa- nut, pistachio nuts, &c., or a mixture of these. This is very suitable for the sides of cakes where the top only is iced. When a more elaborate decoration is wanted, one of the various icings may be used. With a large cake it is very usual to ice the top only, and then to 2 P