565 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES well risen, turn out the dough on to a floured board, knead lightly until free from cracks, and then roll out to about £ inch in thickness. Stamp out in rounds with a cutter, and finish as above. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2695. Dominoes Genoese pastry. Jam. Royal icing. Chocolate Take some Genoese pastry or other white cake mixture and cut it into small pieces resembling a domino. Split these, spread them with jam, and make a sandwioh. Then make some icing by sieving £ lb. icing sugar and 'mixing it gradually with white of egg until of a softish consistency. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and coat the little cakes with this, and set them aside to dry. Now colour some of the remaining icing brown with a little melted chocolate or brown colouring ; put it into a small paper cornet, and force out first a line across the centre of each cake, and then brown spots in imitation of dominoes. 2696. Easter Cakes | lb. flour. | lb. butter. | lb. sugar. 2 oz. currants. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. brandy. 2697. French Buns 3 eggs. Flour (Vienna). 1 gill of milk. 1 oz. German yeast. 3 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. butter. £ lb. butter. 1 oz. sugar. £ lb. currants. Cream the yeast in a small basin with the salt. Heat the milk to a lukewarm temperature, and pour it on to the yeast. Put a handful (2 or 3 oz.) of flour into a basin, and strain the milk and yeast into the centre. Make a sponge by working the flour into the liquid with the fingers until a stiffish batter is formed. When quite smooth, cover the basin with a cloth, and set the sponge in a warm place to rise. When risen, and just before it falls, add 2 oz. of butter melted, 3 eggs, 3 oz. of castor sugar, and enough dry flour to make a light dough. Beat until light and smooth, cover the basin again, and set in a warm place until well risen (from 15 to 20 minutes). Then turn the dough on to a floured board, and roll it out very lightly into an oblong shape. Put on the £ lb. of butter in small pieces in the same way as for flaky pastry (Recipe 1446), giving the dough about three rolls. Then sprinkle with the currants and 1 oz. of sugar. Roll up like a roly poly, cut in slices, and lay these on a greased and floured tin. Set to prove in a warm place, and then bake in a good oven until brown and firm to the touch. Just before removing the buns from the oven, glaze them over with sugar and milk. Note.—These buns, although somewhat trouble- some to make, are very good when finished. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2698. Geneva Squares Pastry. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Mixture. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 tea-sp. baking powder 3 eggs. Put the butter into a warm basin, and beat it with a wooden spoon until soft and creamy. Add the sugar, yolks of eggs, and brandy, and mix well together. Then work in the flour by degrees, and add a little milk if necessary. Lastly add the currants well cleaned. When smooth and free from cracks, cover the paste over, and let it stand in a cool place 1 hour at least. Then roll out on a floured board to rather less than £ inch in thickness. Cut out in rounds about 5 inches in diameter, and place the cakes on a greased tin. Bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. When nearly ready, brush the cakes over with slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge them with castor or icing sugar. Cool the cakes on a sieve or wire cake stand. Note.—These little cakes make a nice present for Easter, about half a dozen of them should be tied together with narrow coloured ribbon. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, Is. £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 3 oz. butter. 2 oz. currants. 3 oz. sugar. 2 oz. candied peel. 3 oz. flour. First make the pastry—sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Beat up the egg, and add it with enough water to bind all into a paste. Turn out on a floured board, and knead with the hands until free from cracks. Roll out very thinly, and cut in two pieces. Grease a flat tin, line it with one piece of the pastry, put in the mixture (see below), cover with the other piece of pastry, wetting the edges where they join, and prick all over with a fork. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven until brown and crisp. Allow the cake to cool a little in the tin, then cut in squares with a sharp knife. To Make the Mixture.—Put into a ba sin the sugar, flour, spice, and baking powder, add the currants well cleaned, the aln onds blanched and chopped, and the peel finely shred, mix all together, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter, and pour it in with the eggs well beaten. Mix all to- gether. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2699. Genoese Pastry (Beaten Cold) £ lb. Vienna flour. 8 eggs. 10 oz. sugar. A few drops of vanilla 7 oz. butter. or other flavouring. Weigh all the ingredients very carefully. Clarify the butter (see p. 634), sieve and warm the flour. Put the yolks of the eggs into one large basin and the whites into another. Sieve the sugar over the yolks, and then with a wire whisk beat them well about 15 minutes, or until light and creamy. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, and add them alternately with a little of the flour to the creamed yolks and sugar. Mix very gently and lightly. Add the clarified butter and vanilla essence, and mix again. Pour out on a shallow tin lined with paper, and bake in a quick oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes, Probable cost. Is. 6d.