403 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS down, as the fruit sinks considerably when cooking. Wet the edge of the pastry which lines the basin, put on the cover, and press the two edges well together. Dip the centre of a pudding cloth in boiling water, and dredge it with flour. Tie this over the top of the pudding, and plunge it into a saucepan of fast-boiling water. Boil quickly until thoroughly cooked. More boiling water must be added as required. When ready, turn out on a hot dish, and serve at once. Note.—This pudding may be steamed or baked instead of boiled. Time to boil, at least 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1772. Preserved Ginger Pudding 2 eggs. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. rice flour. | lb. preserved ginger. 1 table - sp. ginger syrup. | tea-sp. baking powder. J tea-sp. ground ginger. Cream the butter and add the sugar to it. Then add the eggs and the two flours by degrees, and beat well for a few minutes. Cut the ginger into small pieces, and mix it in lightly at the last with the baking powder, ginger syrup, and ground ginger. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until ready. Turn out on a hot dish and serve with custard, German, or chocolate sauce. Note.—The mixture may be steamed in small moulds if preferred. From 15 to 20 minutes will then be sufficient to cook them. Time to steam, 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1773. Gingerbread Pudding | lb. flour. | lb. suet. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. | tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 1 egg- 1 tea-cupful treacle. 1 tea-cupful milk. Chop the suet finely (see p. 395), and mix it in a basin with all the other dry ingredients. Make a well in the centre, put in the treacle and the egg well beaten, and mix in the dry ingredients gradu- ally, adding the milk by degrees. Beat for a minute and pour the mixture into a well-greased mould or basin. Cover with greased paper and steam steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with custard or ginger sauce. Time to steam, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1774. Glenloch Pudding 2 table-sps. small tapi- oca or sago. 1 cupful water. 1 cupful milk. 1 cupful bread-crumbs. 1 cupful suet. 2 eggs. 1 cupful flour. 2 table-sps. sugar. Flavouring. A few raisins. Put the tapioca or sago into a saucepan with the water and allow it to soak. Then cook it until quite clear, adding the milk. Meanwhile mix in a basin the bread-crumbs, suet finely chopped, flour and sugar. When the sago or tapioca is cooked and thick, add it to this mixture along with the eggs well beaten. Mix well and add flavouring to taste. Pour all into a mould or basin that has been greased, floured, and decorated with a few raisins, and steam steadily until thoroughly cooked. Turn out and serve with jam or wine sauce. Time to steam, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1775. Golden Pudding, 1 Make in the same way as marmalade pudding (Recipe 1780), substituting golden syrup for the marmalade. Serve with golden syrup sauce. 1776. Another Way, 2 | lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 1 gill milk. 1 egg. 2 table-sps. golden syrup. First grease a basin or plain mould, pour in the syrup and run it round the sides. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and add the sugar. Make a well in the centre, add the egg well beaten and then the milk, mix thoroughly and pour into the prepared basin. Cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Time to steam, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1777. Imperial Pudding | lb. prunes. Jib. honey Juice of i lemon. Brown sugar. Suet crust. 6 oz. flour. 6 oz. bread-crumbs. 6 oz. suet. 1 tea-sp. salt. Cold water. Well grease a plain mould or basin, and coat the inside with coarse brown sugar. Then wash the prunes, and let them soak in boiling water for half an hour. Meanwhile make the suet crust according to directions given on p. 333, and roll it out rather thinly. Cut a round from this, and lay it at the bottom of the basin. Put a layer of prunes, stoned, on the top and squeeze over a little lemon juice. Then place over another round of pastry with some honey on the top, more pastry, more prunes, and so on until the basin is full. The last layer should be of the pastry. Cover with a scalded and floured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil at least three hours. Serve with lemon or orange sauce. Note.—Dates may be used instead of prunes, and syrup or any nice jam instead of the honey. Time to boil, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1778. Jam Layer Pudding Short crust or suet pastry. Jam. Grease a plain mould or basin, and line it with the pastry rolled out thinly. Put a spoonful of jam at the bottom and a round of pastry on the top. Then continue putting in the jam and pastry in layers until the mould or basin is full. The last layer should be pastry. Cover with a piece of greased paper, and steam steadily from two to three hours according to size. Turn out and serve hot. Notes.—This pudding is also very good baked, it will then require a shorter time to cook. Several