COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 190 725. Lobster Sauce (Sauce au Homard) | pt. cardinal sauce. 2 or 3 table-sps. lobster meat. Cut the lobster meat into small pieces, being careful to remove any small pieces of shell. Add it to the cardinal sauce (see Recipe 712). Simmer a few minutes and serve. Note.—Tinned lobster may very well be used for making this sauce. 726. Sauce Madere Make in the same way as Sauce Demi-glace, adding a glass of Madeira. 727. Sauce Maltre d’Hotel Make in the same way as Parsley Sauce. See Recipe 700. 728. Sauce Matelote This is a brown sauce made with fish stock to which some Burgundy or claret and anchovy butter are added. 729. Sauce Mornay Same as Cheese Sauce (Recipe 682). 730. Sauce Mousseline (Savoury) Make in the same way as Sauce Hollandaise (see Recipe 723), adding at the last 2 table-spoonfuls whipped cream. shape. Cook them for 10 minutes in the sherry, add the brown sauce (Recipe 670), and cook 20 minutes longer. Serve with brown entrees of poultry and meat. 734, \ pt. white stock. 3 table-sps. chopped celery. Grated rind 1 orange. Orange Sauce Juice of 2 oranges. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. cream. A small piece of butter. Put the white stock, celery, and grated orange rind into a saucepan, and if procurable add 3 or 4 leaves of sweet basil. Bring to the boil, simmer slowly for 15 minutes and then strain. Return to the saucepan and add the strained juice of the oranges. Bring to the boil again, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and add the yolks of egg and cream. Make thoroughly hot, but do not boil again, and stir in a small piece of butter just before serving. This sauce is excellent served with roast poultry or game. 735. Oyster Sauce (Sauce aux Huitres) 1 doz. oysters. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. About i pt. fish stock or milk. 2 table-sps. cream. White pepper, salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. 731. Sauce Normande 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 3 gills white stock. Lemon juice. Liquor from fish. 2 yolks of eggs. Seasoning. This sauce is usually served with sole, or other fish, cooked d la Normande. Make a sauce with the flour, stock, and half the butter, and cook it well. Add the liquor from the fish (Recipe 381) and simmer 12 to 15 minutes longer, skimming when necessary. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs, then the re- mainder of the butter in small pieces. Add the lemon juice last of all, and strain or tammy before using. 732. Nut Sauce (Savoury) 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. 1 oz. butter. \ oz. flour. | pt. stock. 1 yolk of egg. 1 table-sp. cream. Seasoning. A mixture of nuts may be used for this, such as almonds, cashews, and walnuts. Blanch them and chop them finely or put them through a nut-mill. Melt J oz. of butter in a small saucepan and brown the nuts in this. Then pound them to a paste in a mortar, moistening them with a little of the stock. Now make a sauce with the remainder of the butter, flour, and stock, add to it the nut paste, season to taste, and simmer all together a few minutes. Then just before serving remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the yolk of egg and cream. Note.—Use game stock if the sauce is to be served with roast game. 733. Sauce aux Olives \ pt. brown sauce. 1 1 glass sherry. 1 doz. olives or more. I Wash the olives, stone them, and try to keep them whole, so that they may resume their original Open the oysters, remove the beards, and care- fully preserve the liquor. Make up the oyster liquor to half a pint with milk or fish stock, and put it into a saucepan with the beards of the oysters. Simmer these over the fire for a few minutes to extract the flavour, and then strain through a very fine strainer or piece of muslin. Make a sauce in the ordinary way with the butter, flour, and this liquor, and cook it well. Add the oysters, whole or broken in pieces, the cream and seasoning. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. Serve with boiled or steamed fish, or with boiled or roasted poultry or game. Note.—Tinned oysters may be used, but a larger number will be required. 736. Sauce Perigueux 2 or 3 large truffles. 1 gill tomato sauce. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 glass Madeira. Anchovy essence. Seasoning. Shred the truffles or chop them very finely. Put them into a small lined saucepan with the wine and simmer slowly until the wine is reduced to half the quantity. Then add the two sauces and cook a few minutes longer, skimming if necessary. Season to taste and add a few drops of anchovy essence. 737. Sauce Poivrade 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. lean ham. 1 pt. game stock. J gill vinegar. J gill sherry or red wine. A small piece carrot, turnip, and onion. 1 tomato. 2 or 3 mushrooms. A bouquet garni. 1 tea-sp. anchovy essence. 1 blade of mace. A few peppercorns. 2 or 3 cloves. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, allowing it to brown slightly. Add the vegetables and ham cut