STOCKS AND SOUPS 49 35. Cabbage Soup (Soupe aux Choux) A small ham bone. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. White pepper and salt. 1 slice of toasted bread. 1 cabbage, i pt. milk. 1 onion or 2 leeks. 1 qt. meat boilings. 1 table-sp. crushed tapioca. Wash the cabbage in cold water, and remove the coarse outside leaves and any hard pieces of stalk. Separate all the leaves, and let them soak in cold water for half an hour. Then drain off the water and shred the leaves finely. Put the shred cabbage into a saucepan of fast boiling water, slightly salted, boil quickly for 5 minutes and then drain. Slice the onion or leek finely, put it into a saucepan with the cabbage, ham bone, and meat boilings, and boil steadily for | hour. Then lift out the bone, sprinkle in the crushed tapioca, and add the milk and season- ing. Cook the soup ten minutes longer or until the tapioca turns quite clear, and add the parsley just before serving. Cut the toast into small square pieces, put them in the soup tureen, and porn’ the soup, boiling hot, over them. Note.—Rice may be used instead of tapioca, but it will require a longer time to cook. Time to cook, 1 hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 36. Cabbage and Potato Soup 1 cabbage. 1 oz. bacon fat. 4 or 5 potatoes. 3 pts. water. | pt. hot milk. 1 slice of toast French roll. Seasoning. or 1 Prepare and blanch the cabbage as in Recipe 35 and press the water well out of it. Melt the bacon fat in a saucepan, put in the cabbage and fry it a few minutes until it begins to take colour. Pour in the water, bring to the boil and add the potatoes peeled and cut in slices. Cook slowly for one hour or until the vegetables are well cooked, then beat with a wooden spoon or wire whisk until the potatoes are broken down and quite smooth. Add the milk and season to taste. Cut the toast in small pieces or break up the French roll, put it in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over it. Note.—Vegetable stock or meat boilings may be used instead of water and a ham bone and butter instead of the bacon fat. Time to cook, 1J horn?. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Quantity, 2\ pints. 1 qt. meat boilings. 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. ! pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. A pinch of nutmeg. 37. Carrot Soup (Soupe a la Crecy) 1 lb. red carrots. 1 onion stuck with 2 or 3 cloves. 1 stick of celery or . £ tea-sp. celery seed. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. butter or dripping. The carrots used for this soup should be very red; if the inside part is yellow, it should rather be kept for flavouring the stock pot. Wash and scrape the carrots, cut them in thin slices, and let them soak in cold water a few minutes. Prepare the onion and cut it in thin slices, wash the celery and cut it in shreds and cut the ham in small pieces. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, strain the water from the carrots and add them to it along with the prepared ham, onion, and celery. Put on the lid, and cook these over the fire for a few minutes, shaking the pan occasionally, and being careful that the contents do not burn. Add half the stock or water, the bunch of herbs and a little salt, and simmer slowly for one hour. Then add the rest of the stock, and cook one hour longer, or until the carrots are quite soft and pulpy. Rub the soup through a fine sieve, rinse out the saucepan, and return it to reheat, adding more meat boilings or a little water if the puree is too thick. Break the cornflour smoothly with the milk, add them to the soup, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add a pinch of nutmeg and other seasoning to taste and simmer 5 or 10 minutes longer. Serve with crofitons of toast, or a dish of well-boiled rice may be handed separately. Notes.—One dessert-spoon of fine tapioca may be used for thickening the soup instead of the corn- flour. A richer soup may be made by adding 1 gill of cream instead of the milk. Time to cook, 2 horns. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd Quantity, 2 pints. 38. Carrot and Lentil Soup | lb. lentils. 5 pts. cold water. 2 large red carrots. 2 onions. 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of sugar. 1 tea-cupful boiled rice. Wash the lentils and if time permits allow them to soak overnight in some of the water. Prepare the carrots and the onions and cut them both in small pieces. Melt the fat in a saucepan, put in the prepared carrot and onion and fry them a few minutes over the fire. Then add the lentils along with the water in which they were soaked and the remainder of the water. Bring to the boil, and add the bunch of herbs, pinch of sugar, and seasoning to taste. Simmer slowly until the lentils and vege- tables are quite soft, stirring occasionally. When ready, rub as much as possible of the soup through a sieve or colander and return it to the saucepan to reheat. Add the cooked rice just before serving, or a dish of plainly boiled rice may be served separately. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Probable cost, 5d. Quantity, 3 to 4 pints. 39. Cauliflower and Lettuce Soup (Potage de Choufleur et de Laitue) 1 large cauliflower. 1 small lettuce. 1 qt. meat boilings or second white stock. 1 oz. crushed tapioca. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. White pepper and salt, i pt. hot milk. Use the white part only of the cauliflower. Cut it in small pieces, wash in cold water, and scald in boiling water 5 or 10 minutes. Put the stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil, drain the cauli- flower and add it to it, and simmer slowly until tender, about half an hour. Then add the milk, the butter broken in small pieces, and the lettuce washed and cut in fine shreds. Sprinkle in the tapioca and cook all together for 10 minutes longer, stirring frequently. Season to taste and add the parsley at the last. Serve with toast cut in dice. D