COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 58 10 minutes longer and add the parsley at the last. Serve crofitons of fried bread separately. Note.—The addition of a fewf resh green peas is an improvement to the soup. They will require about 20 minutes to cook. A little oream will also im- prove the colour and flavour. Time to cook, about 1J hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. (3) FARINACEOUS AND FISH SOUPS, &c. 86. Barley Soup (Potage d’Orge) 3 pts. of stock made ^tea-cupful pearl barley, from shin of beef or Seasoning, beef bones. Wash the barley and put it into a saucepan with the stock, bring to the boil and simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours, or until the barley is soft. Any scum or skin which rises to the surface must be care- fully removed. Season to taste and rub the soup through a sieve into a basin. Return to the sauce- pan to reheat, adding a little milk if liked. Serve with fried crofitons of bread. Notes.—If the stock used is not well flavoured a few small pieces of vegetable may be added to the soup and strained out when sieving. If preferred the barley may be served whole in the soup, and the sieving dispensed with. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. Quantity, 2} pints. 87. Bread Soup (Soupe au Pain) 6 oz. stale bread. 3 pts. meat boilings or light stock. A pinch of nutmeg. | pt. milk. Seasoning. 1 egg. Cut the bread in small pieces, crumb and crust together. Melt the butter in a saucepan and fry the bread for a few minutes until it begins to take colour. Then add half the meat boilings and simmer J hour. Beat out all lumps with a wire whisk, and when quite smooth add the remainder of the liquid and the seasonings. Bring to the boil and then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire. Beat up the egg with the milk, and strain them into the soup, stirring all the time. Make the soup thoroughly hot, but do not boil again after the egg is added. A little grated cheese may be served separately. Time to cook, f hour. Probable cost. Id. to 8d. Quantity, 2| to 6 pints. 88. Cheese Soup (Soupe au Fromage) 2 pts. milk, i lb. Cheddar cheese. Salt. Pepper. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. Grate the cheese and melt it in a small saucepan with a little of the milk, without allowing it to boil. Put the remainder of the milk into a larger sauce- pan and heat it carefully over the fire. Mix the flour and butter together, add them to the hot milk and stir until the mixture boils and is quite smooth. Add the melted cheese and seasoning to taste, but do not boil again. Put the yolks of eggs into a soup tureen and pour the hot soup gradually on to them, stirring all the time. Serve with sippets of toast or fried croutons. Probable cost, lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 89. Macaroni Soup, Brown (Potage Macaroni) 2 oz. macaroni. 2 pts. brown second stock. i oz. butter. J- pt. water. Parmesan cheese. Crofitons of fried bread. Put the water into a small stewpan with the butter and bring it to the boil. Throw in the macaroni and cook it until soft, stirring frequently. It will take about 20 minutes, or perhaps longer, according to the kind used. It must be well cooked without becoming pulpy, and more water must be added if necessary. When ready, drain, reserving the water, and cut the macaroni in rings or short lengths. Remove any grease from the stock, put it into a saucepan with the water from the maca- roni, and bring it to the boil. Add the macaroni and season to taste. Serve this soup with croutons of fried bread which have been tossed in grated Parmesan cheese. Or grated Parmesan cheese without the croutons may accompany the soup. Note.—The stock used should be well flavoured or the soup will have a poor taste. Time to cook, $ hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2 pints. 90. Macaroni Soup, White (Potage Macaroni) 3 oz. macaroni. 2 pts. light stock or meat boilings. 1 oz. butter. Salt to taste. | pt milk. 1 Spanish onion. 6 white peppercorns. A few parsley stalks. 1 bay-leaf. Break the macaroni into small pieces and put it into a saucepan with the stock, butter, onion skinned and cut in thin slices, peppercorns, parsley stalks, and bay-leaf. Let all these simmer for 1 hour or more, or until the macaroni is reduced to a pulp. Then rub the soup through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan, return the soup to it with the milk, bring to the boil and season to taste. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last would be an improvement, and a few cooked green peas might be used as a garnish. This soup should be served very hot, and a little grated cheese should be handed separately or fried crofitons of bread tossed in Parmesan cheese. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, hi. to (M. Quantity, 2 pints. 91, Macaroni and Tomato Soup (Potage Macaroni aux Tomates) 3 oz. macaroni. 2 pts. light stock or meat boilings. 4 fresh tomatoes or half a tin of tomatoes. A small bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 Spanish onion. A few trimmings of ham or a small ham bone. Pepper and salt. Break the macaroni and put it into a saucepan with the stock and tomatoes (if fresh tomatoes are used, wipe and cut them in slices). Bring to the boil, and add the butter, the onion, cut in small pieces, the bunch of herbs and other seasoning. Let all these simmer for 1 hour or more until the macaroni is reduced to a pulp. Then rub the soup through a fine wire sieve into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Add more seasoning if necessary. A little hot milk added at the last is an improvement. Serve with crofitons of fried or toasted bread.