MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES 3066. How to Render Down or Clarify Fat Take any scraps of fat, remove from them every particle of meat and any discoloured parts, and cut them up in small pieces. Put them into a stewpan with cold water to cover them, and boil with the lid on for one hour. The steam will help to whiten the fat. Then remove the lid, and continue boiling slowly until all the water has evaporated, removing all scum as it rises. Now stir frequently to prevent the pieces of fat sticking to the pan, and cook until the membranous pieces of fat become shrivelled and brown, but not burnt, and the liquid which has oozed out of them looks like clear oil. At this stage remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and allow the contents to cool. Then strain through a piece of muslin stretched over a tin basin, pressing the scraps of fat until as dry as possible. Avoid using small strainers for this purpose, as the heat of the fat is liable to melt any soldering; the muslin may be rinsed out after use, and will serve the same purpose many times. When cold, this fat will form a hard white cake, and will be found useful for many purposes. Perhaps its chief use is as a frying medium, but in good plain cookery it can also be employed in the making of cakes and pastry, and is infinitely to be preferred to cheap butter. Either beef or mutton fat may be clarified, and it may be either cooked or uncooked, although it is better to keep the cooked fat separate from the uncooked if there is sufficient quantity. Beef fat is the best for most purposes. Any fat trimmings from meat should be saved, and if these are not sufficient to supply the needs of the household, scraps of fat (they need not be suet) should be bought from the butcher and rendered down. When cooked scraps are being rendered down, a more liberal supply of water should be allowed, as they generally require more boiling to throw up the scum. The sole use of the water is to wash the fat, and every drop must pass off by evaporation before the fat is ready for straining. 3067. To Clarify Frying Fat and Dripping Frying Fat.—When after frequent use fat be- comes brown and discoloured, it can be clarified in the following manner : Melt the fat and pour it into a large basin half full of warm water. Stir well to wash the fat, and put it aside to cool. When cold, the fat will have risen and formed a cake on the top of the water. Lift this off, scrape away any sediment which may lie underneath, wipe the fat dry, and put it aside for future use. The water may be poured away, as it was simply used for cleaning purposes and contains nothing of value. Dripping.—When a joint of meat has been roasted, the fat or dripping which runs from it should be carefully preserved, as this is one of the most valuable materials in the kitchen. Pour it from the roasting tin into a jar or basin containing about a cupful of hot water. When cold, the cake of dripping may be removed, and will be found useful for many purposes; while the water under- neath, which will contain some of the juice from the meat, can be used in place of stock. 3068. To Clarify Butter Put some good salt butter into a small lined saucepan, and bring it slowly to the boil. Let it simmer gently a few minutes, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and allow it to stand until the butter has ceased to bubble. Now remove all froth from the top with an iron spoon, and pour the clear oil into a dish ready for use, leaving the sediment in the saucepan. 3069. To Make White Bread-crumbs The simplest way to make these is to rub some rather stale bread through a wire sieve. Some cooks make them on a grater, but these are never so smooth and even. When crumbs have been used for egging and bread-crumbing, they should be re-sieved before being put away. 3070. To Make Browned Bread-crumbs Break some stale bread, or crusts of bread, into small rough pieces, put them on a baking tin, and bake them in a cool oven until brown and crisp. A good plan is to put the bread in the oven when the fire is going down in the evening, and to allow it to remain all night, as the more slowly it is dried the better. Crush the dried bread in a mortar, or on a sheet of paper with an old rolling-pin, or with a bottle filled with water, and when reduced to crumbs pass them through a wire sieve. These crumbs are useful for various purposes in cookery; if the bread is only slightly coloured, they will do very well for egging and bread-crumb- ing, and are more economical than fresh white crumbs. Dried crumbs should be stored in a tin box, or in a jar with a lid. 3071. Baking Powder, 1 2 oz. tartaric acid. I 2 oz. rice flour or ground 2 oz. carbonate of soda. | rice. The ingredients used, should be fresh and of the best quality. Pass them twice through a fine