COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 164 1 coloured leaves and also any weeds which may be mixed with it. Remove also the coarser stalks by doubling the leaves and pulling them off length- wise. Then wash the spinach thoroughly in seve- ral waters until quite free from grit. It must be remembered that spinach grows very near the ground and that it requires most careful washing to make it clean. Handle it as lightly as possible, and when clean lift it out of the water. Never drain the water off the spinach after washing, as this would mean leaving any remaining grit behind. Put the spinach into a large saucepan with just the water that hangs on the leaves, or if it is getting old about a tea-cupful of water, sprinkle it with a very little salt and put the lid on the pan. Cook until it is quite tender, stirring it frequently with a wooden spoon. When ready, drain well, pressing out all the water. Then rub the spinach through a wire sieve or chop it very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the pre- pared spinach, season with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon juice, and make all thoroughly hot over the fire. Pile up the spinach in a neat pyramid on a hot dish. Dressed Spinach marking it up the sides with the back of a fork; and garnish round the base with triangular crou- tons of fried bread or toast symmetrically arranged, and if liked, some sections of hard-boiled egg cut in 6 or 8 pieces. Note.—The butter is a very important item in this dish, and if success is aimed at the quantity must not be stinted. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 570. Spinach with Cream (Epinards a la Creme) Prepare and cook the spinach as in last recipe, finishing it off with | tea-cupful of cream instead of the butter. One or two yolks of eggs may also be added if wished. 571. Spinach with Gravy (Epinards au Jus) Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569, finishing it off with 4 tea-cupful of good gravy instead of the butter. This is a very good accom- paniment to fried sausages or bacon. 572. Spinach for Garnishing 1 lb. spinach. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Pepper and salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. A pinch of nutmeg. Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569. When well drained, rub it through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the spinach and sprinkle it with the flour. Stir over the fire for a few minutes until the flour is cooked. Then season to taste, and if too stiff add one table-spoon- ful cream. Note.—This is a somewhat stiffer preparation than Recipe 569, and is more suitable if intended to support an entree. It can also be put into a forcing bag with a fancy pipe and forced out as a garnish for various dishes. 573. Spinach Souffle (Souffle d’Epinards) 1 lb. spinach. 2 table-sps. cream or white sauce. Seasoning. 2 or 3 eggs. 1 table-sp. browned bread-crumbs or grated nuts. Prepare and cook the spinach as in Recipe 569, and when well drained rub it through a wire sieve. Put the spinach puree into a basin, season it with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice and a tiny pinch of nutmeg, add the yolks of eggs and mix well. Then add about 2 table-spoonfuls of thick white sauce or whipped cream, and last of all stir in the whites of eggs beaten to very stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish, sprinkle the top with fine browned bread-crumbs or grated nuts, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once. Note.—A little grated cheese may be added to the mixture if wished. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Sweet Potato (Patate) This vegetable is cultivated in hot climates and only occasionally comes into our markets. It re- sembles the ordinary potato in appearance, except that it is rougher looking. It contains more sugar and less starch than our potato, and is less nourish- ing and digestible. The sweet potato requires very careful cooking, as it is apt to become moist and sticky. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked according to most of the directions given for the common potato. 574. Sweet Potatoes, To Boil Wash and brush the potatoes, being very careful not to break the skin. Throw them into a basin of clean cold water and let them lie for a short time. Then cook them in boiling water slightly salted until they can be pierced fairly easily with a skewer. There should only be sufficient water to cover the potatoes, and they must not be allowed to become too soft. When ready, drain, peel them quickly, and then dry them in the oven a few minutes to make them mealy. Serve very hot. 575. Sweet Potatoes, Broiled Sweet potatoes. Butter or dripping. Seasoning. Wash and peel the potatoes, but do not cook them. I Cut them in slices about \ inch in thickness and dip them in melted butter or good beef dripping. Season the pieces with pepper and salt and arrange them on a greased broiler or grill. Cook them under the grill of a gas stove or in front of a clear fire, turning them until nicely browned on both sides. Then serve very hot as an accompaniment to a grill or a roast of meat or game. Time to cook, about 10 minutes.