500 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD ice if possible. Then decorate the oysters with tiny rounds of the red part of radish to imitate berries, and small leaves of chervil, or mustard and cress. Pour a little liquid aspic very gently over them to set the decoration and make the surface glossy, and set again. Serve each oyster on a croute of fried bread and garnish round the edges with chopped aspic put through a forcing bag. 2295. Prune and Cheese Savoury (Pruneaux farcis au Fromage) Stewed prunes. I Mayonnaise sauce. Grated cheese. | Lettuce. Choose good prunes, stew them until tender, but not broken, drain them and let them cool. Then remove the stones carefully without breaking the prunes in pieces. Take some grated Cheddar or Gruyere cheese, and moisten it with thick mayon- naise sauce. Season the mixture well and put a little into each prune, giving each its original form. Serve them on small leaves of round lettuce, pouring over a little more mayonnaise if desired. Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley or a little coralline pepper. Note.—After stuffing, the prunes may be dipped in a little liquid aspic to give them a glossy appearance. 2296. Little Croustades of Salmon 7 or 8 pastry croustades. 2 table-sps. cooked salmon. J gill aspic. 1 gill double cream. \ tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Seasoning. Cucumber. Radishes. Prepare some small pastry croustades (see Recipe 2248), bake them, and allow them to cool. Chop and sieve the salmon, then add to it the aspic jelly in a liquid condition. When beginning to set, stir in the cream, which has been whipped until stiff, and season to taste with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little anchovy essence. If necessary, add a drop or two of carmine, but do not colour highly. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and force it out into the pastry cases, piling it rather high. Decorate with a small radish cut in the form of a rose on the top, and small pieces of scalloped cucumber (see p. 313) round the sides. Note.—Lobster, crab, or tunny fish may be used instead of the salmon. 2297. Bonnes Bouches de Sardines 1 dessert-sp. sardine paste. 2 hard-boiled yolks. 1 oz. butter. Small cress. A few drops tarragon vinegar. Brown bread and butter Chopped white of egg. Put the sardine paste into a mortar with the butter, hard-boiled yolks of eggs, and some small cress. Pound well together, season with cayenne pepper, a few drops of tarragon vinegar, and salt if necessary. When well pounded, rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Cut some thin slices of brown bread and butter, and make sandwiches with the above paste, cutting them in neat shapes. Butter the top of the sandwiches, sprinkle them with a little finely chopped white of egg, and decorate with a little of the sardine mixture put through a forcing bag. 2298. Canap6s de Sardines Make in the same way as Canapes d’Anchois (Recipe 2263). 2299. Shrimp Canapes (Canapes de Crevettes) Croutons fried bread. i Hard-boiled white of egg Shrimps. Shrimp butter. | Capers. Prepare some round croutons of bread, fry them brown in butter, and allow them to cool. Then spread the top and sides with shrimp butter made by working a little shrimp paste or strong shrimp essence into a small quantity of butter. Dip the edges of the croutes into finely-chopped white of egg. Then take 5 or 6 picked shrimps for each canape, arrange them in a circle like a rosette on the top, and put a caper in the centre of each. 2300. Shrimp Eclairs (Eclairs de Crevettes) Choux pastry. | Shrimps. Shrimp essence Whipped cream. | Seasoning. Make some tiny eclairs about 3 inches long with choux pastry (Recipe 2050), and bake them until brown and well risen. When ready, brush them over with beaten egg and return to the oven for a few minutes. Then split them open, and leave them on a sieve until cold. Whip about 2 table- spoonfuls cream until thick, season it with shrimp essence and white pepper, and then mix in about 1 table-spoonful of picked shrimps rather finely chopped. Fill the eclairs with this mixture, and serve garnished with small cress. 2301. Shrimps a la Mayonnaise (Salade de Crevettes) Shrimps. Mayonnaise sauce. Lemon and parsley. Pick the shrimps and mix them with some thick mayonnaise sauce. Serve them piled up in an hors-d’oeuvre dish, put a border of thinly sliced lemon round, and here and there a small sprig of parsley. Or, small portions may be served on small leaves of a round lettuce, coquilles de crevettes. 2302. Tomato Canapes (Canapes de Tomates) 2 tomatoes. Croutons fried bread. Seasoning. Savoury butter. A little chervil. Chopped parsley. Prepare some round croutons of bread, fry them in oil, and let them cool. Peel the tomatoes, squeeze out the soft part from the centre, and cut them in small pieces. Then season them as for a salad, adding a little chopped chervil if obtainable. Care must be taken not to make the tomato too liquid. Now spread the croutons with a little shrimp, anchovy, or any other savoury butter, which will prevent any liquid from soaking into the bread, and pile-a little of the tomato salad on the top of each. Decorate with a little finely-chopped parsley. 2303. 1 gill tomato puree. \ gill aspic jelly. 1 table-sp. grated Parmesan. Seasoning. Tomato Cheese 1 sheet of gelatine. 1 table-sp. mayonnaise sauce or double cream. Salad. Use fresh red tomatoes. Cut them in halves, squeeze out the juice and rub sufficient of the thicker