566 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2700. Another 6 oz. flour (Vienna). 6 oz. butter. 8 oz. castor sugar. Way (Beaten Hot) 7 eggs. A few drops of flavour- ing. First weigh all the ingredients carefully. Then clarify the butter, and pour into a basin ready for use. Sieve the flour, and put it into a warm place to get thoroughly dry. Break the eggs into a large basin or beating bowl, and sieve the sugar over them. Stand this basin over a saucepan of hot water, and Beating Bowl beat well with a wire whisk from 15 to 20 minutes, or until the mixture looks light and frothy. The water in the saucepan underneath ought to be kept slowly simmering. When ready, remove the basin to the table and continue the beating a few minutes longer. Stir in the flour and butter very lightly, a little at a time, and do not mix more than is necessary. Add a few drops of any flavouring that is liked. Pour the mixture out on a shallow tin lined with paper, but not greased. The shape of the tin must depend upon what the pastry is to be used for. Bake in a quick oven until slightly browned and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out on'a sheet of sugared paper, and place on a wire stand to cool. Brown Genoese Pastry.—Melt 2 oz. of unsweet- ened chocolate in a tablespoonful of water and add it to either of the above mixtures before beating up the eggs. Pink Genoese Pastry.—Add a fewdropsof carmine to either of the above mixtures just before baking. Note.—Genoese pastry is used for various kinds of fancy cakes. For icing and decoration see p. 594. 2701. Ginger Cakes (Small) 4 oz. flour. 4 oz. butter. 4 oz. sugar. £ tea-sp. ground ginger. 2 eggs. A few drops of ginger essence. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. candied lemon peel. Cream the butter, add the sugar, ground ginger, essence of ginger, and the lemon peel chopped finely, and mix well. Then add 1 egg and half the flour, and beat well, then the other egg and the re- mainder of the flour, and beat again. When the mixture is light and frothy looking, mix in the baking powder, and half fill small prepared tins (see p. 550). Place the tins on a baking sheet, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven until they feel firm to the touch and are nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2702. Girdle Cakes Take some pastry (flaky or rough pufl will do) and roll it out to £ inch in thickness. Cut out into squares or oblong-shaped pieces, and place these on a hot girdle. Brown first on the one side and then on the other until the pastry is thoroughly cooked. Then split, butter, and serve hot. Note.—A few currants may be rolled into the pastry before cooking. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, id. or Id. each. 2703. Honey Cakes 1 lb. honey. £ lb. butter. 1 lb. flour. A pinch of salt. £ lb. ground almonds. • A pinch of ground cloves Grated rind of £ lemon. £ oz. carbonate of soda. Sieve the flour, salt, carbonate of soda, and ground cloves into a basin, add the almonds and grated lemon rind, and make a well in the centre. Melt the butter and honey in a lined saucepan, and pour them into the centre of the dry ingredients. Mix together until all is thoroughly blended, then cover the basin and allow the mixture to stand all night. Next day sprinkle the paste with a little flour and turn it out on a baking board. Flour a rolling- pin and roll out the paste to £ inch in thickness ; cut in small square pieces or round cakes, and place them on a greased and floured tin. Brush over the top of the cakes with slightly beaten white of egg, and sprinkle with some chopped almonds. Bake in a moderate oven until the cakes feel firm to the touch and are of a pale brown colour. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 2704. Hot Cross Buns 1 lb. flour. £ lb. butter or dripping. £ tea-sp. salt, f oz. German yeast. About £ pt. warm milk. 2 eggs. 2 to 4 oz. currants. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. £ lb. sugar. Candied peel. Sieve the flour and spice into a basin, rub in the butter or dripping until free from lumps, and make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast with the salt, pour on to it the warm milk, and strain into the centre of the flour. Add also the 2 eggs well beaten, and mix all lightly together. Beat well until smooth, cover the basin, and set it in a warm place until the dough is well risen, about 1£ hours. Then add the sugar and currants, mixing them well in. Form the dough into round buns, and place them on a greased and floured tin 2 or 3 inches apart. Form a cross with two strips of candied peel on the top, or, if preferred, mark them with the back of a knife in a cross, and set them in a warm place to rise, from 10 to 15 minutes. Then brush the buns over with a little milk and bake them in a quick oven. Note.—These buns are always made for Good Friday. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, Is. £ lb. flour. £ lb. butter. £ lb. ground almonds. 2705. Japanese Cakes £ lb. castor sugar. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 2 eggs. Coffee icing. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, add the ground almonds, and then rub in the butter until free from lumps. Beat up the eggs