PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 363 make it a good shape. Place the apple balls as they are ready on a wetted baking tin with the join downwards, brush them over with water or slightly beaten white of egg, and dredge with sugar (fig. 3). Bake in a moderate oven. When ready, the apples should be soft, and the pastry nicely browned. Serve hot or cold on a dish with a dish paper on it, and dredge again with sugar. Note.—Ground cloves, ginger, or cinnamon may be used for flavouring the butter and sugar instead of lemon rind. Suet crust, or in fact any scraps of pastry may be used instead of the short crust. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost. Id. each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. to prevent the paste rising. Cut the apricots in small pieces and stew them for a short time in some of their syrup. Then drain and mix them with the apricot jam, a few drops of vanilla, and, if liked, a little liqueur. Allow this fruit mixture to cool and put a little into each of the lined tins. Whip up the white of egg to a stiff froth, spread a little smoothly over each tartlet, and dredge well with icing sugar. Bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot or cold. Note.—Other kinds of fruit may be used in the same way. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost, Id. each. 1552. Apple Puffs 2 or 3 apples. Grated lemon rind. 2 table-sps. sugar. A small piece of butter. A little water. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Peel and slice the apples thinly, put them into a lined saucepan with a little grated lemon rind and a small piece of butter, and stew them until reduced to a pulp, using a little water if necessary only. When ready, add the sugar and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. It should be quite thick and like a marmalade. Then make some puffs with rough-puff or any other light pastry as directed in Recipe 1571, using the apple marmalade instead of the jam. Brush them over with white of egg, dredge with sugar and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. each. 1553. Apple Tartlets (Tartelettes aux Pommes) 1 lb. apples. I 1 lemon. 2 eggs. 2 oz. butter. J lb. sugar. I Tartlet cases. Pare, core, and slice the apples and cook them in a lined saucepan with the butter, sugar, and grated rind of the lemon. The pulp should be perfectly smooth and thick, and, if necessary, must be rubbed through a sieve. When ready, allow it to cool slightly and add the strained juice of the lemon, and the two eggs. Stir over the fire again until the eggs are cooked and the mixture thickens, then turn into a basin to cool. Fill up cooked tartlet cases (see p. 362) with this mixture, and serve them either hot or cold. Or, if liked, a meringue may be made with 2 whites of eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and a little piled on the top of each tartlet. They must then be dredged with sugar and put in a cool oven for a time, long enough to set the meringue and make it a light brown colour. They may be decorated with small pieces of preserved fruit. Note.—Any other kind of fruit pulp may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 10 to 12 tartlets. Probable cost. Id. each. 1554. Apricot Tartlets Short crust. 6 or 8 tinned apricots. 1 table-sp. apricot jam. (Tartelettes d’Abricots) 1 white of egg. A little icing sugar. A few drops of vanilla. Line from 10 to 12 small tartlet tins with some short crust rolled out very thinly, and prick them 1555. Banana Puffs Small bananas. Cake or biscuit crumbs. Lemon juice. Pastry. Raspberry jam. Choose small bananas, or, if large, cut them in two or three pieces. Peel them and sprinkle them witn a little lemon juice. Spread them with rasp- berry, or any other good flavoured jam, and roll them in cake or biscuit crumbs. Ratafia or macaroon crumbs are really the best to use. Take some good pastry, roll it out rather thinly and stamp it out in oval-shaped pieces, a little longer than the bananas. Lay a banana in the centre of each, brush round the edges with a little white of egg or water, fold over and press the edges to- gether. Mark or ornament according to taste, brush the puffs over with a little white of egg, and dredge them well with sugar. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Serve hot or cold. If liked, the puffs may be decorated with a little thin glace icing. Note.—Lemon juice may be used instead of the jam. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Probable cost. Id. to 1 \d. each. 1556. Banbury Puffs Mixture. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1J oz. flour. 1 oz. candied peel. Grated rind § lemon. 3 oz. currants. A pinch of cinnamon. A pinch of allspice. 1 yolk of egg. 1 dessert-sp. brandy or 1 table-sp. sherry. Puff or flaky pastry. To Prepare the Mixture.—Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat them together to a cream. Add the grated lemon rind and spice, and then the yolk of egg and flour. Clean the currants and shred the peel very finely, add them to the other mixture and moisten with the brandy or wine. Allow this mixture to stand a short time before using it. To Make the Puffs.—Roll out some puff or flaky pastry to rather less than inch in thickness, and cut it in pieces about 6 inches square. Wet round the edges with slightly beaten white of egg, and put a good tea-spoonful of the mixture in the centre of each. Fold over two sides of the pastry, making them overlap in the centre. Pinch the two ends together and draw out like a little bolster. Turn over, making two or three slits in the puffs with the point of a knife, brush them over with white of egg, dredge with sugar and bake in a good oven until