PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES The making of pastry requires a certain amount of practice, and failure at first must not discourage the beginner. It is often only after repeated attempts that success can bo attained. A start should be made with the plainer kinds of pastry, and especially those in which the fat is well mixed with the flour before the rolling begins, such as Suet Crust and Short Crust. When these have been thoroughly mastered, the more difficult kinds may be attempted. This chapter includes a representative selection of recipes for both sweet and savoury dishes of pastry, pies, tarts, patties, tartlets, fancy pastries, &c. The hints and directions in the recipes should be carefully attended to. MATERIALS REQUIRED Butter or Fat.—There are several different kinds of fat which can be used for pastry making, such as butter, lard, dripping, clarified fat, margarine, and various kinds of vegetable fat now on the market. Butter is the best to use for all the finer kinds of pastry, but it must be carefully chosen and free from taint of any kind. Fresh butter is the best for puff pastry. When the butter is soft it should be put into very cold water or on ice for a short time before using, and then all moisture squeezed out in a clean dry cloth. When a more economical pastry is wanted, good dripping, lard, or margarine may be used, or a mixture of butter and lard is very good. Inferior butter should never be taken, as it would quite spoil the taste of the pastry. If dripping is used it should be carefully clarified and all trace of brown gravy removed from it. A good dripping crust is one of the most wholesome kinds of pastry for children. Vege- tarians, who do not allow themselves butter, employ some form of vegetable fat or nut butter for making their pastry. Suet is used principally for making boiled pastry, the fat taken from the kidney being the best, and beef suet is generally preferred to mutton. Flour.—Good household flour will serve the purpose for all ordinary pastries, but for the finer kinds, such as puff pastry, choux pastry, &c., Vienna or Hungarian flour should be used. It must be very dry, and if by any chance it has become damp, dry it in a warm place and then let it cool before using it. The flour should also be sieved for pastry, as this not only ensures its being free from lumps, but makes it lighter. Baking Powder.—This is only required in the plainer kinds of pastry, where the supply of butter or fat is limited. It helps to give lightness. When it is used the pastry should be baked as soon as possible after the moisture is added, as the powder soon loses its effect. The Liquid.■—Water is usually the only liquid required for mixing the pastry. It must be as cold as possible, and in hot weather a piece of ice, when obtainable, should be added to it. The exact amount of water to use is not always given in the recipes, as so much depends on the consistency of the fat u:-td, and also upon whether the flour is a 332 very dry kind or not. It will generally be found that the finer the flour the more water it will re- quire. In the richer kinds of pastry a beaten egg or the yolk of an egg is used along with a little water. ON MIXING AND ROLLING See that all utensils used, such as board, basin, rolling-pin, &c., are particularly clean and cool. The board should be smooth and perfectly flat. It is always better if a board can be kept for pastry-making only. A marble or slate slab i3 always to be preferred to a wooden board, as it is so cool and level. The rolling should also be smooth and not too heavy. A round glass bottle filled with cold water will make quite a good rolling-pin when no other is at hand. Clean hands are also imperative. If the hands are inclined to be warm, wash them some little time before beginning the pastry in very warm water. Those who have very warm hands should mix the pastry as much as possible with a knife. Make the pastry in as cool a place as possible; the colder it is kept during the making, the lighter it will be. In hot weather it should be put away in a cold place for some little time before it is used. The mixing with the water must be done as quickly and lightly as possible. Some cooks do this on the board or slab by making a well of the flour and pouring the water into the centre, but it requires a good deal of experience to do this well and prevent the water from running over the sides; mixing in the basin is always the easier method. When turning the pastry out on the board try to leave the basin as clean as possible, cleaning it out, as it were, with the lump of paste. Never rub little pieces off the fingers on to the pastry, as, when cooked, these would form hard lumps; but clean the hands back into the basin with a little dry flour. Roll the pastry lightly and try to press equally with both hands. When rolling the flaky kinds of pastry, roll always from you, taking short quick strokes, and lifting the rolling-pin between the strokes. Never allow pastry to stick to the board, but lift it occasionally on the rolling-pin and dust some flour underneath. If anything has stuck to the