180 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD meat. Wash the coral, dry it in a slow oven, Eound and sieve it and then use it for garnishing. ut the remainder of the lobster meat into small pieces and season it with cayenne pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Then take a salad dish, line it with a few crisp lettuce leaves, and pile up the lobster in the centre, arranging it in layers with the mayonnaise sauce, and masking the top with a thick layer of the sauce. Sprinkle over a little of the lobster coral, place the heart of the lettuce and a few of the lobster feelers in the centre, and decorate round the sides with some crisp lettuce leaves, some thinly sliced cucumber or radishes, and the pieces of claw meat. Notes.—The decoration for a salad of this kind is very much a matter of taste and may be more or less elaborate according to individual taste. Hard-boiled egg, prepared tomatoes, celery, fillets of anchovies, capers, pickled gherkins, watercress, &c., may either be mixed with the lobster or used as a garnish. Individual salads may be made if preferred, by serving small portions of the lobster and mayonnaise on a nice crisp lettuce leaf and decorating with a little lobster coral and small cress or cucumber. 660, Mixed Salad For this take as great a variety of salad vegetables as you can get, according to the season of the year, and a suitable proportion of each. Such vegetables as finely shred lettuce and en- dive, spring onions thinly sliced, tomatoes peeled and cut in pieces, sliced beetroot, sliced cucumber, shred celery, mustard and cress, radishes, small pieces of cooked carrot and turnip, &c. &c., are suitable. Mix lightly with any of the salad dress- ings, and garnish according to taste. 661. Orange Salad 2 sweet oranges. A little chopped tarra- 1 table-sp. salad oil. gon and chervil. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. Peel the oranges and remove all the white pith. Then divide them in natural sections and take out the seeds. Put the pieces in a salad bowl and mix them with a little chopped tarragon and chervil if obtainable. Now add the oil and vinegar (tarragon or white wine vinegar is best), and mix all lightly together. 662. Orange and Date Salad 2 sweet oranges. J lb. dates. 3 table-sps. salad oil. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. Salt. 1 lettuce. 1 table-sp. chopped wal- nuts. Soak the dates in boiling water for a few minutes, then drain them and wipe them dry. When cold, remove the stones and cut the dates in slices. Take the finest salad oil and pour 3 table-spoonfuls or less over the dates, sprinkle them with a little salt, then add the lemon juice and mix together. Peel the oranges and remove all the white pith; then cut them in small and very thin slices and take out the seeds. Mix the oranges with the dates and arrange neatly on small lettuce leaves, sprink- ling the chopped nuts over. 663. Oyster Salad (Salade de Huitres) Oysters. Lettuce. Cayenne pepper, salt. A little small cress. Mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Shoes of lemon. Scald the oysters in their own liquor until the edges begin to curl, then drain them (reserving the liquor) and let them become very cold. If large, cut each oyster in two or three pieces with a silver knife and season them with cayenne, salt, and a little lemon juice. When required arrange small portions of oysters on crisp lettuce leaves, coat them with the sauce and serve them on small china dishes, decorating with thin slices of lemon and little bunches of small cress. Note.—This may be served on one larger dish, if preferred. 664. Prawn Salad (Salade d’Ecrevisses) Make in the same way as Lobster Salad (Recipe 659), using shelled prawns instead of lobster ~ De- corate the dish with curly leaves of lettuce and sliced radishes, and stand two or three unshelled prawns on the top. 665. Potato and Beetroot Salad (Salade de Pommes de Terre et Betterave) 4 or 5 cooked potatoes. 1 cooked beetroot. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. chopped shal- lot. Salad dressing, No. 748 or 749. Potatoes for a salad should be waxy, not mealy; new potatoes, or Dutch or German potatoes are the best. When cold, remove the skins and cut them in thin slices. Also peel and slice the beet- root. If a dainty-looking salad is wanted the slices should be cut with a round cutter to make them