COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 522 2448. Cheese and Egg Sandwiches Brown or rye bread. 1 hard-boiled egg. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 2 table - sps. melted butter. Cayenne pepper. Salt. | tea-sp. lemon juice. Chop the hard-boiled egg and pound it with the grated cheese, melted butter, and seasoning. Spread a thickish layer of this mixture between two slices of brown or rye bread. Press together, trim and cut into shape. 2454. Curry Sandwiches, 2 1 hard-boiled egg. £ tea-sp. curry powder. | tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. cream. \ tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Cayenne pepper. Brown bread and butter. Chop the hard-boiled egg, and pound it with the cream and seasoning. Spread thus mixture rather thickly between slices of brown bread and butter. Press lightly together, trim, and cut into shape. 2449. Chicken and Celery Sandwiches Cooked chicken. Celery. ( cream. Mayonnaise sauce or | Bread and butter. Take equal quantities of tender chicken and the heart of celery, and chop them together. Moisten with a little mayonnaise sauce or thick cream, and season to taste. Spread between bread and butter or small sandwich rolls. 2450. Cod’s Roe Sandwiches 2 table-sps. cooked cod’s roe. 1 dessert-sp. white sauce or cream. Cayenne. Salt. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. A squeeze of lemon juice White or brown bread and butter. Remove all skin and fibre from the roe, put it into a basin, and break it up with a fork. Season with cayenne, salt, anchovy, or shrimp essence, and a few drops of lemon juice, and moisten with a little white sauce or cream. Spread this mixture between thin slices of bread and butter, or put it into small buttered rolls. Garnish the sandwiches with parsley or small cress. 2455. Egg and Cress Sandwiches 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 table-sp. white sauce, cream, or melted butter. Seasoning. Watercress or small cress. Brown or white bread and butter. Chop the eggs, season them with pepper, salt, and if liked a little anchovy or shrimp essence or tomato ketchup. Mix well together and moisten with white sauce, cream, or melted butter. Wash and pick some cress carefully, dry it well, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle lightly with a few drops of salad oil and lemon juice. Cut some thin slices of brown or white bread and butter. Spread half of them with the egg mixture, put a little prepared cress on the top, and cover with the remainder of the bread. Press together, trim and cut into shape. Serve garnished with water- cress or mustard and cress. 2456. Egg and Cucumber Sandwiches Make in the same way as Egg and Cress Sand- wiches (see above), using thinly-sliced cucumber instead of the cress. 2451. Crab Sandwiches Make in the same way as Lobster Sandwiches (see below). 2452. Cucumber and Cheese Sandwiches Cream cheese. Made mustard. Cucumber. Butter. Brown or white bread. Spread some slices of brown or white bread and butter, mixing the butter first with a little made mustard. Then spread half the bread with cream cheese, and put a layer of thinly-sliced cucumber on the top. Cover with the remaining pieces of bread, and press well together. Then trim and cut into neat pieces. Serve garnished with parsley or watercress. 2453. Curry Sandwiches, 1 Remains of meat curry. White bread and butter. Take the remains of some curried meat, chicken, or veal, &c., and put it through a mincing machine. Then mix it with enough of the curry sauce to make it sufficiently moist. Spread this mixture between thin slices of bread and butter. Trim and cut into pretty shapes. Serve garnished with parsley. 2457. Egg and Shrimp Sandwiches 2 hard-boiled eggs. A few picked shrimps. 1 oz. butter, or 1 table-sp. cream. Cayenne pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. Small rolls. Chop the eggs, and add the shrimps cut in small pieces, season to taste, and add the butter melted or the cream. Mix well together. Split some finger-shaped rolls, put a good teaspoonful of the mixture into each, and close them up. Note.—A little mayonnaise sauce may be used instead of the cream or butter, and chopped salmon or sardines may take the place of the shrimps. 2458. Foie-gras Sandwiches Foie gras. Butter. Thin milk biscuits. Any trimmings of foie gras may be used for these. Pound them in a basin or mortar with some butter and any extra seasoning that may- be necessary. Spread this mixture between small thin milk biscuits, and serve garnished with small cress or parsley, or with nasturtium flowers. Note.—A puree of foie gras (sold ready prepared) may be used if no scraps of the real foie gras are available, and bread and butter may be used instead of biscuits.