378 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD yolk of egg and parsley. Serve at once in a hot dish. Probable cost, 6d. 1627. Chestnut Croquettes (Croquettes de Marrons) Take some cooked chestnuts, shell and peel them and rub them through a sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan, season with pepper and salt, add a small piece of butter, and moisten with enough milk or stock to make a thickish paste. Beat well until perfectly smooth, and turn on to a plate to cool. Then divide the paste into small pieces the size of a chestnut, and form them with a little flour into the shape of the nut. Now egg and bread- crumb them and fry in boiling fat. These cro- quettes can also be made with the prepared chest- nut meal, now sold in packets. Moisten the meal with enough milk or stock to make it of the proper consistency, and cook it for a few minutes over the fire, seasoning with pepper and salt and adding a small piece of butter at the last. Then cool and proceed as above. 1628. Purge of Chestnuts (Purge de Marrons) 1J lbs. chestnuts. i 1 pt. light stock. 1 oz. butter. | Seasoning. Prepare the chestnuts as in Recipe 1625, remov- ing the outer and inner skins. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and stock and let them stew slowly until they are quite tender. Then rub as much as possible through a wire sieve and return the purge to the saucepan to re-heat, adding season- ing to taste. The addition of a little cream is an improvement. Note.—This may be served as an accompaniment to roast meat or as a garnish for entrees. then put them through the nut-mill, or chop them finely. Melt 1 oz. butter or other fat in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes without browning. Add the bread-crumbs, grated cheese (reserving 1 table-spoonful) the grated rind and strained juice of £ lemon, pepper and salt. Mix together and then moisten with the egg well beaten and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of milk. Put the mixture into a well-greased baking dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot, garnished with a little parsley. Note.—The egg may be omitted and a little tomato puree used instead of the milk. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 1631. Potato and Nut Roll 2 cupfuls cooked pota- toes. £ cupful chopped nuts. | cupful chopped celery. Salt. Pepper. 1 egg or a little milk. Melted butter. Mash or sieve the potatoes and add to them £ cupful of chopped walnuts, peccans, or other nuts. Prepare also £ cupful of the white part of celery finely chopped, and mix it with the potatoes and nuts. Season with pepper and salt and bind all together with beaten egg or a little milk. Form into a roll and place this on a greased tin. Pour over a little melted butter, and bake in a good oven until brown, basting occasionally with the butter. When ready, lift carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with brown or tomato sauce poured round. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Id. 1632. Nut and Potato Rissoles 1629. Savoury Chestnut Cake 1 lb. chestnuts. 2 or 3 table-sps. white sauce. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. £ tea-sp. powdered herbs 1 egg. Salt. Pepper. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. A little butter. Either bake or boil the chestnuts, remove the outer and inner skins and rub them through a sieve. Then add to the sieved chestnut the chopped parsley and onion, herbs and seasoning. Mix to- gether and moisten with an egg well beaten and some good white sauce. Grease a plain mould or basin and coat it with fine brown bread-crumbs. Fill up with the chestnut mixture and cover with greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and serve with tomato or any other suitable sauce poured round. Time to bake, £ hour. Probable cost, lOd. 1630. Nut and £ lb. nuts. £ lb. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 egg. 1 oz. butter or fat. Cheese Pudding 1 table-sp. chopped onion. £ lemon. Seasoning. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk. Walnuts or a mixture of nuts is the best to use for this. Toast them a few minutes in the oven, 2 tea-cupfuls cooked potatoes. 1 tea-cupful mixed nuts. 1 yolk of egg. 1 table-sp. white or tomato sauce. Seasoning. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Roast the nuts slightly and put them through the mill, or chop them finely. Sieve the potatoes and mix nuts and potatoes together. Add the yolk of egg and seasoning to taste, and bind all together with a little tomato or white sauce. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and let it stand for a short time in a cool place. Then form into small balls with the help of a little flour, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Probable cost. Id. or 8d. 1633. Nut Souffld £ cupful bread-crumbs. 1 cupful mixed nuts. 1 cupful milk. 2 eggs. A little celery. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Pepper. Salt. Put the bread-crumbs and milk into a saucepan, and cook them over the fire until perfectly smooth. Then remove the pan from the fire and add the nuts, a small piece of celery finely chopped, the parsley and seasoning. Mix well, and stir in the yolks of eggs. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish, sprinkle the