COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 210 admirably adapted to the purpose. They have much to recommend them from the point of view of cleanliness; they are easily cleaned and there is no danger of rust. They are also economical so far as fuel is concerned, their heat-retaining power being so great that they will simmer for hours over a gentle heat without burning the food. They are not expensive to buy, and if proper care is taken of them they will last a long time. Food cooked in them is usually served in the pot, hence the term “ En Casserole,” and therein lies part of the novelty. A folded serviette may, if liked, be pinned round the outside, but as some of the pots are so quaint and ornamental, this would rather spoil the effect. There are different kinds of ware for cooking urposes now on the market; besides the all rown clay-pot there is the brown and green fireproof ware with white or yellow linings and the all white fireproof china. Braising This is a method of cooking largely employed in France. It is a sort of combination of roasting and stewing, and is particularly well suited to small joints. Like stewing, it is very economical and very savoury. It is one of the best ways of cooking meat that is dry and lacking in flavour, and also for meat that is inferior in quality. A proper braising pan is supplied with a sunk lid, in which hot charcoal can be placed in order to supply a top heat, but an ordinary stewpan can be made to answer the purpose quite well. The stewpan chosen should be fairly deep, just large enough to leave a space of about 2 inches round the piece of meat being cooked, and the lid must fit it closely. First place a little butter, dripping, or fat bacon at the bottom of the stewpan and allow it to melt. Then put in a layer of vegetables cut in dice— carrot, turnip, onion, and celery in equal propor- tions. A little tomato and leek may be added as well, if available. The bed of vegetables should be from 1J to 2 inches in depth, according to the size of the stewpan. Season with pepper and salt and a small bunch of herbs. On the top of this place the meat, prepared as directed in recipes, put the lid on the pan, and cook over the fire about i hour, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent the contents sticking. Next pour in enough stock or water to cover the vegetables and just touch the meat, and cover the whole with a piece of well- greased paper. Sometimes a little wine is added as well. Put the lid again on the pan, and cook very slowly until the meat is tender. The cooking may either be done on the top of the stove or in the oven. If the former, the meat when ready should be placed for a short time in the oven to brown the top (it is generally glazed as well); if cooked in the oven this is not so necessary, as a top heat is supplied all the time. Neither is it necessary when a proper braising pan is used. During the cooking the meat should be basted occasionally with the stock, and if this becomes too much reduced, more should be added. The time for cooking will depend on the kind and size of meat under treatment. The meat may either be served with a good sauce, or with the stock in which it was cooked, strained round as a gravy. A suitable garnish is gener- ally prepared separately, but when vegetables are scarce and economy has to be considered, those from the braising pan may be served along with the meat. These latter are, in any case, always a valuable addition to the stock pot. Meat cooked in this way will be found to be juicy and full of flavour. Plenty of time must be allowed, and slow cooking is essential. To Glaze Meat Have the glaze prepared as directed on p. 40 and in a melted condition, but not too hot; or, if cold glaze or bought glaze is used, put it into a jar with a very little water or stock, and stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water until the glaze is melted. It will then be ready for use. Use a small paint-brush or egg-brush, and paint the meat all over with it in even, straight strokes. If one coating is not sufficient, allow the first one to cool, and brush the meat over again until it has a rich brown and shiny surface. Meanwhile keep the glaze in a melted state by putting the pan or jar con- taining it in a saucepan half full of hot water. Do not waste any glaze that is left, but pour it carefully into a clean jar ready for future use, and rinse the brush and saucepan with boiling water, > which pour into the stock pot. Glaze can also be bought by the ounce, but its flavour is not generally so good as that which is prepared at home. It costs about 2d. per ounce, and this quantity will be sufficient to glaze an ox tongue or a fair-sized piece of meat. APPROXIMATE TIME REQUIRED FOR BOILING OR ROASTING MEAT Kind of Meat. Weight. How Cooked. Time. Beef Salt beef Mutton, leg of . . . „ shoulder. . Lamb, quarter of . . Pork ...... „ salted .... Veal Ox tongue, salted . . „ ,, smoked . Sucking pig .... lb. 5 9 5 5 9 6 4 Small Large 4 4 3 5 about 4 lb. Small Boasted Boiled Roasted Boiled Boasted Boiled Boasted Boiled Roasted hrs. 11 to 1J 21 „ 3 2J „ 3 If „ 2 2i „ 2J 3 hrs. If to D 1 „ H D „ 1| 1| ,, 2 2 „ 2| 11 „ H 2 „ 2f 2 „ 2J 3 „ 4 2 „ 2f