15 THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD such as thin old towelling, or a cheap canvas-like material sold for the purpose. Some people prefer a mop or dish brush instead of the dishcloth, and both are useful. The water must be changed whenever it becomes dirty ; continuing to wash in the dirty water would only result in smeary dishes, with probably an unpleasant smell. This is one of the most import- ant points to pay attention to. Another very important point is the use of dry and clean towels, the thickness being regulated according to the kind of article being dried. Finally, when the “ washing up ” is finished and everything put away in its place, the dishcloth or mop that has been used must be washed well and hung up to dry, and also any towels that require it. The tub or basin, too, must be washed and rinsed and set on end to air. All then will be clean and ready when wanted again. Care of the Sink.—It is very important that this be kept in a thoroughly clean and sanitary con- dition. Nothing indicates an untidy and careless worker more than a dirty and greasy sink. Every sink should be provided with a sink basket or tidy and a sink brush. The former is used to place over the opening to keep back any tea-leaves, vegetable parings, or other refuse which might block the pipe. Do not throw anything but water down a sink, and if the water is greasy flush it well afterwards with hot soapy water. It is a good plan also to pour down some very hot soda and water when the washing up is finished ; a little disinfectant may also be used occasionally. If water in which vegetables have been cooked is not kept for making soup, it should never be Sink Brush poured down a sink, as it would cause an unpleas- ant smell, but should be emptied straight into a drain or outside in the garden. An effort should be made to keep the pipe and trap (an elbow-like bend in the pipe, just below the sink) in good order, by preventing grease and refuse collecting in them. If these become choked and clogged an unnecessary expense must be in- curred to have them cleaned out, not to speak of the annoyance and dangers arising from the smell of such an accumulation. Do not be afraid of plenty of hot water when washing up ; it is greasy lukewarm water that clogs the pipe sooner than anything. When the washing up is finished the sink should be well scrubbed out with some hot water and soda and a little soap, rinsed with hot water, and then finally the iold pipe should be allowed to run. If the sink becomes discoloured, use a little sand, or Brooke’s soap. The sink brush and any dishcloths must also be washed out and hung up to dry, not left lying about in the sink. Also any tub or basin that has been used for washing up. KITCHEN REFUSE In every household there must of necessity be a certain amount of refuse to dispose of, consisting of ashes, sweepings from the floors, broken crockery, empty tins, food remains, &c. Part of this refuse should be put into a dustbin or ashpit, with either of which every house should be provided, while the remainder should be burnt. The ashpit is more frequently found in country districts where the removal of rubbish cannot be so frequent as in towns. It is usually built of brick or of stone, and should be well cemented and placed at some distance from the house. The best kind of dustbin is one made of galvan- ised iron and round in shape. The size will depend on the needs of the household, but it is better to have two, if necessary, of a medium size, than one that is too heavy to be lifted. These dustbins are very often provided by the landlord and belong to the house. There should always be a lid to fit the dustbin to prevent damp from entering or dust from flying about. It should be placed at least a few feet from the house and never near a window. The emptying of the dustbin will depend on local authorities, but it should be done not less than twice a week and oftener for large establish- ments. Nothing but dry refuse should be put into a dustbin unless it can be emptied very frequently, as damp favours decomposition, and very soon causes an unpleasant and very unhealthy smell. Animal and vegetable refuse in this case is better burnt, and if there is a kitchen range in use it is a comparatively easy matter to dispose of all vege- table parings, tea-leaves, and such like. There are two ways of burning food remains. They may either be dried slowly at the back of the fire or underneath the grate, after which they will burn quite readily, or they may be nut into the