146 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD salt and water for two hours to remove the bitter- ness, drain and wipe them dry in a towel. Then dip the slices in flour, seasoned with pepper and salt, and egg and bread-crumb them. Fry a nice brown colour in boiling fat, drain and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and serve tomato sauce or tomato ketchup separately. Note.—The slices of egg-plant may be dipped in frying batter instead of being egged and bread- crumbed, or simply floured and seasoned and fried in a little oil or butter. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 489. Egg Plant, Saut6 (Aubergines Saut6es aux Fines Herbes) 2 egg plants. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1| oz. butter. i tea-sp. powdered Salt. Pepper. herbs. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A squeeze of lemon juice Choose egg plants of medium size, peel them and cut them in small square pieces, removing the seeds. Then toss the pieces in flour and season them with white pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, and when quite hot put in the egg plant and saute it, or toss it in the butter, until cooked and lightly browned. Sprinkle with the parsley, herbs, and lemon juice, and serve in a hot dish with any remaining butter poured over it. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. individual taste. The meat may be omitted and chopped nuts used in its place. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Endive (Chicoree Frisee) There are diSerent kinds of endive, but the variety most commonly seen is that with a curly green leaf. It is used principally as a salad vegetable, although it is also excellent when cooked Endive and served much in the same way as spinach. It has a decidedly bitter taste, which prevents its being such a universal favourite as lettuce. See also Chicory, p. 142. 490. Egg Plants, Stuffed (Aubergines Farcies) 2 egg-plants. Seasoning. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped ham or tongue. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. chopped mushrooms. Grated lemon rind. Egg to bind. Wipe the egg plants, and cut them in halves lengthwise. Scoop out the seeds from the inside, sprmkle the halves well with fine salt and let them lie with the hollow side downwards for 1 hour. Meanwhile prepare the stuffing. Put all the chopped ingredients into a basin, season them nicely and bind all together with beaten egg. Drain and wipe the pieces of egg plant and fill Stuffed Egg Plant them up with the stuffing, piling it rather high. Spread a few crumbs on the surface and place the pieces on a greased baking dish. Cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until ready. Serve hot, with a dish paper tinder them. Note.—The stuffing may be varied to suit 491. Endive, To Stew (Chicoree au Jus) 2 or 3 heads of endive. 1 cupful stock. Seasoning. A small piece of butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A squeeze of lemon juic*. A pinch of nutmeg. Wash the endive carefully, separating the leaves and removing the stalks and any discoloured parts. Then scald them in boiling water slightly salted for 10 minutes. Drain and cut across in small pieces. Put the endive into a saucepan with the stock, sprinkle in the flour and stew slowly until quite tender. Add butter and seasoning and serve very hot. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 492. Endive with Cream Prepare in the same way as Dandelions with Cream (see Recipe 484). Flageolets See p. 171. Green Peas (Petits Pois) Green peas are extensively cultivated in this country and are a favourite vegetable. To be at their best they should be eaten young and while still quite unripe, and the shelling must not take place until just before cooking. Careful cooking is essential to retain the flavour and sweetness of the peas. When well prepared green peas are easily digested, but if they are to be given to an invalid it is often better to serve them in the form of a pur6e. Older peas are always better served in this form. Avoid using a tinned or iron saucepan for cooking peas, an earthenware or enamelled one is best.