CHAFING-DISH COOKERY This is really one of the earliest methods of cooking, a form of chafing dish having been used when much simpler dishes were expected than in the present day. To its comparatively recent re-intro- duction we are, perhaps, indebted to America, where a modern form of chafing dish has become very popular, and chafing-dish parties are quite festive entertainments. Of still more recent years it has been adopted in Britain as well, although not so extensively perhaps as across the water. There is something very sociable about the chafing dish and a certain amount of fascination in its use. It can often be the means of turning a cold and somewhat untempting repast into one that is not only tasty, but has cheer and comfort as well. It is to be recommended for those who live in rooms or elsewhere, where it is difficult to get little tasty dishes. In fact, for those who like to do a little cooking for themselves, or produce some special novelty for their friends, the chafing dish will prove a most useful friend and companion. It can be used for after-theatre suppers, for high-teas, luncheons, breakfasts, and Sunday evening suppers ; also for yachting, shooting, and picnic parties, &c. It is also invaluable for cooking small and special dishes for the sick and convalescent. The following paragraphs give only a few typical recipes for this method of cooking, but many of the dishes given in other parts of the book can be quite successfully carried out in this way. THE CHAFING DISH AND HOW TO USE IT A chafing dish can now be had in many and various styles, in brass, copper, aluminium, nickel, and even gleaming silver. Both brass and copper are difficult metals to keep in order, and for a moderate priced article a good nickel is perhaps the most sensible kind to buy. These can be had from about 12s. upwards. A chafing dish usually consists of four pieces, the upper pan or blazer, the lower or hot-water A Chafing Dish pan, the lamp, and the stand on which the pans are supported. Then there are other accompaniments which will be found useful, and even indispensable, if this method of cooking is adopted to any extent— such as, a small flagon to hold the spirit for the lamp and act as filler, a long-handled wooden spoon for stirring, a spoon and fork for serving, a skimmer, a measuring cup, a toaster, and a metal tray on which to stand the chafing dish and its equipment. 621 Servers and Skimmer The blazer or hot-water pan can either be used by itself, or in conjunction with the hot-water pan placed beneath it. Used by itself it is suitable for any quick cooking, where the contents will not be spoiled by the direct heat from the flame of the lamp underneath. In this manner it may serve the purpose of an ordinary frying pan or saute pan, although it is never advisable to do any long frying in the chafing dish, as the smell of hot fat would be too objectionable. When a slower method of cooking is required, the blazer is used over the lower pan containing hot water. This latter acts as a kind of bain-marie, and is useful for re-heating different foods and also for keeping dishes warm. It is a great advantage to have this hot-water pan fitted with handles, it will be so much more easily lifted and moved about. In the cheaper chafing dishes these handles are often wanting. It is also very important to have a good lamp for the chafing dish, one that can be regulated to suit different requirements is best, as this will ensure greater safety and comfort. In some of the lamps