HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 495 2261. Barquettes d’Anchois Anchovy pastry. Mayonnaise sauce. 3 or 4 filleted anchovies. 1 gherkin. 1 small tomato. Coralline pepper. Make some anchovy pastry as directed in Recipo 2254, line seven or eight small boat-shaped moulds with it, prick them at the bottom, and bake them until crisp. Then remove the cases from the tins and let them cool. Wash and dry the anchovies and cut them in small pieces, mix them with some tiny pieces of red tomato and some chopped gherkin or other green pickle, and bind all together with a small quantity of thick mayonnaise. Fill up the little cases with this mixture and decorate with small fancy shapes of gherkin or any other garnish to taste. 2262. Biscuits d’Anchois Anchovy or Parmesan Cayenne. biscuits. Whipped cream. Anchovy paste. Decoration. Whip a little double cream until thick, and mix into it a little anchovy paste or one or two pounded and sieved anchovies. Add a pinch of cayenne and one or two drops of carmine to make the mix- ture a pinkish colour. Put this cream mixture into a small forcing bag or paper cornet with a rose pipe and force it out prettily on small Parmesan biscuits, or little biscuits made of anchovy pastry (see Recipe 2254). They may be decorated in vari- ous ways—with tiny strips of filleted anchovy, with a turned olive with a filleted anchovy inside, with small pieces of cucumber, a little lobster coral, a sprig of chervil, &c. 2263. Anchovy Canapes (Canapes d’Anchois) Croutons fried bread. Hard-boiled egg. Filleted anchovies. Chopped parsley. Anchovy butter. Prepare some finger-shaped croutons of white bread, fry them brown in boiling salad oil, and allow them to cool. Make a small quantity of anchovy butter by mixing some butter with a little anchovy paste, and colouring it pink with a few drops of carmine. Spread the top and edges of the croutons with this butter, dip one long edge in finely-chopped white of egg, the other in sieved or chopped yolk of egg, and the two ends in finely- chopped parsley. Then cut some thin strips of filleted anchovies and cross them on the top of the. crouton. Note.—The decoration of these canapes may be varied to taste. 2264. Anchovy Creams (Petites Cremes d’Anchois 2 table-sps. whipped cream. \ gill liquid aspic. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Aspic jelly. Small cress. Mixture. 4 filleted anchovies. 2 hard-boiled yolks. Take seven or eight very small moulds, line them with aspic jelly, and decorate them at the bottom with some small cress. To Make the Mixture.—Pound the anchovies in a mortar with the yolks of egg and anchovy essence, and, when smooth, rub through a hair sieve. Then add \ gill very stiff aspic and the whipped cream, and fill up the prepared moulds. When firm, turn out on a bed of chopped aspic, and decorate with bunches of small cress. Note.—A little lobster coral added to the mixture when pounding would be an improvement. 2265. Anchovy Straws (Pailles d’Anchois) Coralline pepper. Chopped parsley. Anchovy pastry. Anchovy butter. Aspic jelly. First make some anchovy pastry as directed above, roll it out rather thinly, and cut it in narrow strips about f inch wide and 3 or 4 inches in length. Prick them with a fork, and bake on a greased baking tin. When ready, allow the straws to cool, then place them together with a good layer of an- chovy butter (see Recipe 760) between. Coat the top of these little sandwiches with liquid aspic or other savoury jelly, and sprinkle them lightly with finely-chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Serve piled up crosswise on a lace-edged paper. 2266. Artichoke Bottoms with Shrimps (Fonds d’Artichauts aux Crevettes) Artichoke bottoms. Picked shrimps. Seasoning. Mayonnaise sauce. Small cress. Coralline pepper. Tinned artichoke bottoms may be used. Drain them, wipe them carefully in a clean cloth, and trim them a little smaller if necessary. Then sprinkle them with white pepper, salt, and a few drops of salad oil and lemon juice and let them stand a few minutes. Chop up some shrimps roughly and mix them with some mayonnaise sauce. Pile some of this mixture on the top of each artichoke bottom and decorate with little bunches of small cress and a light sprinkling of coralline pepper. Note.—Small pieces of crab, lobster, oysters, or a macedoine of vegetables may be used instead of the shrimps, the savoury changing its name accordingly. 2267. Petites Gondoles aux Bananes Small bananas. Mayonnaise sauce. Capers and gherkin. Choose small Canary bananas and cut a small piece from the side of each. Scoop out the meat Whipped cream. Seasoning. Red chilli and chervil. Banana prepared for Filling from the inside and break this up slightly with a silver fork. To each table-spoonful of the pulp