80 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD with a little fat on buttei) round, and a seasoning of pepper and salt; to cover it with greased paper and cook in a moderate oven until ready. The fish may be served with or without sauce. See Recipe 269. Or, the fish may be stuSed with one of the various stuffings given on p. 307 and then cooked in the oven with some butter or dripping to baste it. Sauce may be served round the fish if wished. See Recipe 207. Or, again, the fish may be baked au gratin, that is, with a seasoning of chopped parsley, mushrooms, and shallot, or grated cheese, sprinkled with bread-crumbs with butter on the top. (See Sole au Gratin, Recipe 252.) A little white wine or sauce may be poured round the fish before it is put in the oven. As baking is a very dry method of cooking, some butter or other fat must always be put along with the fish. Steaming Fish may be cooked by steam instead of boiling it. It is a slower process, but the flavour of the fish is retained better than by boiling, especially in smaller pieces of fish. The fish is placed in a steamer which fits on to a saucepan and success depends upon keeping plenty of water boiling under it. Slices of fish, small skinned whiting, or fillets of fish can be cooked to perfection both as to flavour and substance by steaming, whereas boiling would render them woolly and tasteless. If it is only a small quantity of fish which requires cooking it may be steamed on a plate. Grease the plate with butter and lay the fish neatly on it. Season to taste and squeeze a little lemon juice over the top. Put a piece of well-greased paper on the top and cover with a second plate, or the saucepan lid. Place this on the top of a saucepan of boiling water and allow it to remain from twenty to thirty minutes, or until the fish is sufficiently cooked. The liquid on the plate should be served with the fish or made into a sauce with a little flour and butter, and then poured over the fish. Note.—This is an excellent way of serving fish for an invalid Frying This is one of the most popular ways of cooking fish, and small fish are perhaps more palatable pre- pared in this way than by any other method. Un- fortunately frying is badly understood in many households, and the productions called fried fish are not only greasy and unsightly, but unpalatable and indigestible as well. Fish properly fried should be of a pretty brown colour, dry and crisp, and as free from grease as if it had never been touched by fat. Even the paper on which it is served should show little or no sign of grease. All kinds of fish may be fried in one way or an- other. Small fish are better fried whole, larger ones should be filleted or cut in slices. Before fish is fried it must be made very dry, and the outside must be coated with some prepara- tion, which will prevent the fat entering. There are several different ways of coating the fish. The first and simplest method is to dip it into flour, seasoned with pepper and salt. The flour used should be fine and dry, and if at all lumpy should be sieved before using. Fine oatmeal is some- times used instead of flour. Another way is to dip the fish in milk after the first coating of flour and then in flour again. Then, again, the fish may be dipped in frying batter (see Recipe 1861) to coat the outside. This is only suitable for small pieces of fish, and it makes them look like a fritter. Perhaps the most satisfactory method of all is to egg and bread-crumb the fish, and this certainly has the best appearance when finished. Whichever method is adopted the fish itself must always be neatly trimmed, and then the coat- ing on the outside complete so that there is no opening left for the fat to enter. If flour, or flour and milk are used as a coating, this must be applied just before the fish is to be cooked, otherwise the flour becomes moist and the fish does not fry well. Batter also can only be used at the last minute. Egging and bread-crumbing may, on the other hand, be done sometime before the fish is to be fried, and even the night before if the fish is to be served for breakfast. There are two different methods of frying fish, wet frying and dry frying. The former is the most suitable for small fish or fillets of fish, the latter for larger fish or pieces of fish, which require a slower process of cooking. Wet Frying or French Frying.—This is cooking in a large quantity of fat sufficient to cover the fish. For full directions see p. 248. Do not put too many pieces of fish into the fat at one time, or the fat will be cooled down so much that it will soak into them. If a frying basket is used the pieces must not overlap each other. Let the fish fry a nice brown colour, then lift it out and drain on kitchen paper. If a frying basket is not used a perforated spoon or skimmer should be taken to lift out the fish, so that the fat is not wasted. Always allow the fat to reheat before a fresh lot of fish is put in, and try to make each lot the same shade of brown. Fried fish must be served very hot, and should be dished with a dish paper under it. Garnish with cut lemon and fresh or fried parsley, or small bunches of cress. Dry Frying or Sauteing.—This means frying in a saute or frying pan with a small quantity of fat. There should only be sufficient fat to cover the foot of the pan about -g of an inch. The fat must