COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 386 Put this into a small saucepan with the yolks of the eggs and the sauce belonging to the dish. Add more seasoning if necessary, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot, but not boiling. Place some hot buttered toast, cut in fingers, on a hot dish and arrange the curry mixture neatly on the top. Whip up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add to them the chopped parsley and a little coralline pepper and spread them on the top of the curry. Put the dish in the oven to become thoroughly hot and to brown the egg, then serve at once. Note.—A curry of fish or vegetables may be used up in the same way. 1672. Fish Knots 1 filleted sole or plaice I A little flour. Seasoning, (medium). I Egg and bread-crumbs. Cut the fillets of fish in two lengthwise. Wipe the pieces with a clean dry cloth, season them with white pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice, and then coat them lightly with flour. Twist the pieces round and knot the ends. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain well and serve garnished with parsley and cut lemon. 1673. Fish Sausages 6 oz. cooked fish. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 yolk of egg. | tea-sp. powdered herbs. Salt. Pepper. Egg and bread-crumbs. Smoked fish, or herring or mackerel are the best to use for these. Chop the fish finely, removing all skin and bone, add to it the bread-crumbs, mixed herbs very finely powdered or chopped, the yolk of egg, and seasoning of pepper and salt. Mix all together, and shape into small sausage-shaped pieces, using a little flour. Then egg and bread- crumb them and re-shape if necessary. Ery the little sausages in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, drain, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. 1674. Fish Toast J lb. cooked fish. White pepper and salt. J oz. butter. 2 slices of hot buttered toast. 1 gill fish sauce. A little chopped parsley. Coralline pepper. A little lemon juice. Any nice white fish or smoked haddock will do for this dish. Flake it very small, carefully remov- ing all skin and bone, and season it to taste with salt, pepper, parsley, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the fish and sauce, and make thoroughly hot over the fire. Cut the toast into neat fingers, spread the mixture on the top of it, and decorate with finely chopped parsley and coralline pepper. Notes.—This dish may be varied by using curry sauce or tomato pulp for moistening the fish instead of the white sauce ; or the toast may be spread with anchovy or shrimp paste before putting on the fish mixture, &c. 1 dessert-sp. sherry or Marsala. Seasoning. Bread-crumbs. A little butter. 1675. Minced Game in Scallops 3 or 4 oz. cooked game. 1 gill stock. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. red currant jelly. Take the remains of any cooked game, remove all skin and bone, and chop them finely, or put them through the mincing machine. Mix the flour smoothly with the stock (game stock is best), turn both into a saucepan and stir over the fire until boiling. Then add the game, red-currant jelly, wine and seasoning to taste, and simmer all together for a few minutes. Grease about \ dozen scallop shells and line them with a coating of bread-crumbs. Fill them with the mince and put another coating of bread-crumbs on the top. Lay on two or three small pieces of butter, and brown quickly in the oven, or under the grill of the gas stove. Serve very hot, with a small sprig of parsley on each. 1676. Baked Haddock or Whiting 2 whiting or small had- docks. 3 tab.-sps. bread-crumbs A little butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. i tea-sp. powdered herbs. A few slices of bacon. Clean the fish, cut off the heads and remove the skin. Lay them in a greased fireproof dish and sprinkle them with the bread-crumbs, which have been mixed with the parsley, herbs, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt. Lay some small slices of bacon round the dish, and cover all with a piece of greased paper, or put a few small pieces of butter on the top. Bake in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes, and serve hot in the same dish. Notes.—The bacon may be omitted, but it is generally considered an improvement. Other kinds of fish may be cooked in the same way. 1677. Haddock en Casserole 3 or 4 haddocks. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of mace. Rind of \ lemon. 3 table-sps. milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. A squeeze of lemon juice Choose small haddocks, skin them and cut off the heads. Mix the flour, pepper, salt, and mace on a plate, and dip the fish into this, coating them on both sides. Now grease a fireproof dish with some of the butter, lay in the fish, pour the milk round, and add the thinly peeled rind of \ a lemon. Place the remainder of the butter in small pieces on the top, cover and cook in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, sprinkle with chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice. Serve in the same dish. Note.—Whiting or gurnet may be prepared in the same way. 1678. Rizzard Haddock The fish must be very fresh. Clean it, skin it, and cut off the head. If it is large, it should be split and the bone removed. Then rub it over with salt, both inside and outside, and hang it outside or in a current of air for at least 12 hours. Next day, wipe it carefully, brush it over with oil