WAITING AT TABLE AND TABLE SERVICE Intelligent and proficient waiting is essential to the success of a dinner. No matter how prettily the table may be decorated, nor how good the cooking may be, inferior service will spoil the effect. Every hostess should make a point of having the waiting done as well as possible, as this will not only add to the enjoyment and appreciation of the meal by her guests, but to her own comfort and peace of mind as well. The following simple and elementary rules may prove useful to the novice in the art of waiting, while the other suggestions regarding table service contain hostess. GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR WAITING AT TABLE The maid who waits at table should be neatly dressed in a plain black frock, with a white apron, collar, cuffs, and simple cap. Or, a clean and tidy print dress may be worn for luncheon or early dinner, if she is expected to do housework after the meal is served. Her hair should be neatly done, and she ought to pay special attention to her hands, in order to keep them clean and in good order. A good waitress should be quick and fight in her movements, without having any appearance of hurry or bustle, and her work should be done as quietly as possible. There should be no clatter of dishes, nor rattling of silver and glasses. She must give her whole attention to the work in hand, and be ever on the alert to see what is wanted. A pleasant and gracious manner is also essential, along with thought for the comfort of those she is serving, and a readiness to forestall their wants. Before the meal is served, the waitress ought to become acquainted with the contents of the menu, and to consider what will be required for serving the diSerent courses, in order that there need be no needless moving about, nor leaving the room when once the meal is commenced. She must also see that everything that is laid on the table and used in the service is as bright and clean as possible. When the meal is ready, the maid should announce it by going to the drawing-room and saying with a clear voice, “ Dinner is on the table,” or “ Dinner is served, madam.” The drawing-room door is then left open, and she returns to the dining-room to take up her duties there. When the courses are served from the table, as is frequently the case with the ordinary family dinner, the waitress should stand on the left-hand side of the one who serves, and commence by removing the cover, if there is one in use. She should accustom herself to hand two things at a time, as, for instance, soup with croutons of bread* fish and sauce, meat with a vegetable, &c. When a dish has to be handed round, a spoon, or a spoon and fork, should be placed in it, in readiness for serving. It should then be held firmly and evenly in this chapter may be helpful to the inexperienced on a finger napkin, and handed at a convenient height, so that the person seated may reach it without difficulty. It is not customary to put vegetables and sauces on the table if a maid is in attendance; they should be kept on the sideboard, and handed when required. If, however, the waitress is obliged to leave the room for any length of time, she should place them on the table after they have once been handed round. Soiled plates should be removed at once when finished with, and never allowed to remain in front of those who have used them. It is customary, however, except in the case of the formal dinner, to ask if a little more meat, or pudding, &c., is desired. Plates should be taken straight to the sideboard; the knives and silver put into a box or basket put there to receive them ; and the plates themselves piled up and taken from the room as soon as possible. The soup tureen, or any dish served from, should not be removed until everyone at table has finished that particular course. All dishes must be removed as quietly as possible, and care taken that no gravy nor grease is spilt. Before sweets and dessert are served, a small tray should be carried round the table, and all cruets, salt-cellars, and any knives and silver that will not be required, placed upon it. If a carving cloth has been used, that also should be taken away. All crumbs and pieces of bread should then be removed from the left-hand side of each person, a crumb brush or scoop and a small tray being used. A waitress should never reach across anyone seated to put down or remove an article from the table, but she ought to walk quietly to the right or left hand side as required. When extra knives or silver are required, they should be put down on the table in their proper lace, and never handed on a tray; if bread, owever, is asked for, it should be cut in small pieces, and handed in a small bread basket, or on a plate. Condiments too, when asked for, Bhould be handed on a small tray. When dinner is served in the old-fashioned way, it is quite possible for one quick and intelligent maid to wait on six persons properly; although.