INVALID COOKERY 547 a double saucepan; it will require a little longer. Sometimes a small piece (£ inch) of stick cinnamon is cooked with the milk, or a little brandy may be added after straining. This suet and milk is very nourishing. A piece of dry toast or biscuit may be served with it. Time, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 2626. Thick Milk, 1 £ oz. flour. \ pt. milk. Sugar to taste. Put the flour into a basin, and add 1 table- spoonful of the milk to it. Stir with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth, and then pour on the rest of the milk gradually, mixing well. Pour this into a small lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water, and stir over the fire until boiling. Boil for 10 minutes, so as to thoroughly cook the flour, and sweeten to taste. Serve hot, adding wine if required. 2627. Thick Milk, 2 £ oz. prepared flour. ^ pt. milk. Sugar to taste. To prepare the flour, tie some tightly in a pudding cloth, and boil for about 4 hours. It will then be a hard ball. Open it out, and grate down as much as is required at one time. Then proceed as in last recipe. 2628. Toast Water 1 slice of stale bread or t 1 pt. cold water. the crust of bread. | - The crust of bread is to be preferred for this, as it does not turn sour so readily. Toast it well on both sides until dry and nicely browned, without being burnt. Have the water, which must be very fresh and cold, in a jug ; break the toast into pieces, and put it into it. (If the water were poured on to the toast it would be thick and not so clear.) Cover the jug, and let the toast remain soaking until the water is the colour of sherry wine. Then strain and serve cold. Note.—This makes a very refreshing drink. A little lemon juice may be added. 2629. Treacle Posset 1 gill of milk. 1 table-sp. treacle. Rinse out a small saucepan, put the milk into it, and bring it to the boil. Add the treacle, and boil up again. The acid of the treacle will curdle the milk. Strain through a piece of muslin, and serve hot for a cold. Time, 5 minutes. Probable cost, 1 d. 26230. Whey 1 pt. new milk. 1 tea-sp. of rennet. Warm the milk in a basin to a lukewarm tempera- ture, or about the beat of new milk, and stir in the rennet. Let it stand in a warm place about 15 minutes, until the curd forms and the whey is quite clear. Then let it cool; break up the curd, and strain oS the whey. 2631. Wine Whey 1 tea-cupful milk. \ glass sherry. A little sugar. Put the milk into a small clean saucepan with a lump of sugar if desired, and bring it to the boil. Add the wine and heat until the milk curdles. Stretch a piece of muslin over a glass or cup and strain the contents of the saucepan through. This keeps back the curd, which is the heaviest part of the milk, and the whey forms a soothing drink which is very easily digested. Time, 5 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2632. Lemon Whey Prepare in the same way as in the last recipe, using 1 table-spoonful of lemon juice instead of the sherry. 2633. Cream Whey This can be made according to either of the two last recipes. Add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream after straining. 2634. Bread and Milk Stale bread. I A pinch of salt. £ pt. milk. | Sugar. Remove the crust from the bread, and cut it into small even-sized pieces, sufficient to half fill a breakfast cup or small basin. Bring the milk to boiling point, add a pinch of salt to it, and pour it over the bread. Cover, and let it stand 5 minutes. Serve very hot. A little sugar may be added to the bread and milk if wished, or it may be served separately. Probable cost, 1 \d. 2635. Egg in Bread Sauce 1 egg- 1 dessert-sp. bread- crumbs. 1 gill of milk. 1 tea-sp. butter. 1 clove. \ blade of mace. Salt and pepper. Put the milk into a small saucepan, and add the bread-crumbs, butter, and seasoning. Cook slowly by the side of the fire for 10 or 15 minutes, and then remove the clove and mace. Pour this sauce into a greased saucer or small dish, break the egg. into the centre of it, and bake in the oven for 5 or 7 minutes, or until the egg is set. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. or 3d. 2636. Egg Poached in Milk 1 fresh egg. 1 tea-cupful of milk. A pinch of salt. A round of toast, or a shredded wheat bis- cuit. 1 tea-sp. butter. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the milk with a pinch of salt, and bring it almost to boiling point. Then break the egg into a teacup, and slip it very carefully into the hot milk. Poach very gently for 3 or 4 minutes, until set without be- coming hard. Place a neat round of toast or a shredded wheat biscuit on to a hot plate, put the egg on the top, and pour round it some of the milk. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Probable cost, 2Jd.