FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 463 figs with the other ingredients in a strong jar, cover them over, and if possible allow them to stand overnight. This preliminary soaking is very important if the figs are wanted very soft and tender, and even an hour or two is better than none at all. To cook the figs, place the jar con- taining them in a saucepan with hot water to reach half-way up the sides, put on the lid, and steam from \\ to 2 horns until the fruit is quite tender. Serve hot or cold. Cream or custard may be served Notes.—The jar containing the figs may be placed in a moderate oven instead of a saucepan of water, or, if more convenient, the figs may be cooked in a lined saucepan at the side of the stove. Orange juice may be used instead of lemon juice, or a little wine may be added. 2093. Grape Fruit, To Serve Cut the fruit in halves and scoop out the seeds and core from the centre. Fill the centres with castor sugar, and then stand for an hour or so in a cool place. Then serve with a spoon. 2094. Iced Melon h la Frangalse (Melon Frappe a la Frangaise) 1 melon. [ Sugar. Strawberries. | Liqueur. Choose a round ripe melon and with a sharp- pointed knife cut a round out of the skin at the stalk end about 2 inches in diameter. Reserve this round for filling up the hole later on. With a silver spoon carefully remove all the seeds from the inside of the melon. Choose very small strawberries, or, if large, cut them in pieces with a silver knife. There should be a sufficient quantity to fill the melon. Sprinkle them with sugar, moisten well with some liqueur, and let them stand at least | hour. Fill up the melon with the strawberries and replace the round of skin on the top. Now place the melon in a pail of broken ice and let it remain until icy cold. Serve on a folded serviette, cutting the number of slices required. 2095. Melon with Port Wine (Melon a Porto) Cut the top ofl a rock melon and scoop, out all the seeds from the inside. Place the melon on ice and pour into it 1 or 2 glasses of port wine. Allow it to remain on the ice for 2 or 3 hours, then pour out the liquid and fill the centre with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. Replace the top and serve as cold as possible. Note.—If preferred, the cream may be seasoned with salt and Paprika pepper. 2096. Stewed 1 lb. pippins. £ lb. sugar. The rind of 1 lemon. 1 inch cinnamon stick. Normandy Pippins 1 inch whole ginger. 1 pt. water. 1 glass port. Put the sugar, water, cinnamon, and ginger into a saucepan with the thinly-peeled rind of one lemon. Boil together for 10 minutes, then strain and cool. Pour this syrup over the pippins in a basin, cover with a plate, and soak for 12 hours. Then turn all into a lined saucepan, and stew slowly until the pippins are tender, from 1| to 2 hours. 'When ready, lift them out and place them on a glass dish. Add the port to the syrup in the saucepan, and strain it over the pippins. If the syrup is not a pretty colour, a few drops of carmine or coohineal may be added. Orange or lemon juice may be used instead of the wine. Normandy pippins are delicious when served with Devonshire cream, or a little whipped cream may be put on the top of each apple. 2097. Peaches a la Diable (Peches a la Diable) 6 half peaches (tinned). 8 macaroon biscuits. Sugar. 1 glass rum or kirsch. 2 table-sps. jam or mar- malade. Drain the peaches from the syrup in which they are preserved, and place them on a greased fire- proof dish. Sprinkle them lightly with sugar, and cook them in a moderate oven until they are thoroughly tender. Take six of the macaroons and spread them on the rounded side with some thick jam or fruit marmalade. Rub the remaining two macaroons through a wire sieve to make crumbs. When the peaches are ready, arrange them in a circle on a fireproof dish and alternately with the macaroons. Sprinkle them with sugar and the macaroon crumbs, and place the dish in the oven to brown. When about to serve, pour over a glass of hot kirsch or rum, set fire to it, and serve at once. 2098. Compote of Pears (Compote de Poires) 1£ lbs. pears. i 2 table-sps. port vine. \ lb. loaf sugar. J pt. cold water. A few drops of carmine. Juice of \ lemon. 1 inch cinnamon stick. | 2 or 3 cloves. Put into a fined saucepan the sugar, water, lemon juice, cloves, and cinnamon stick, and allow these to boil for 10 minutes. Peel the pears, cut them in halves or quarters, according to size, re- move the cores, and stew them slowly in the syrup until tender, from | to 1| hours. When nearly ready, add the wine and carmine. Serve the pears in a glass or silver dish, allow the syrup to cool slightly, and then strain it over. Note.—The pears may be stewed in a jar instead of the saucepan (see Stewed Figs). 2099. Stewed Prunes £ lb. prunes. A little lemon rind and 2 or 3 oz. sugar. lemon juice. Cold water. The prunes should first be well washed and put into a basin with the sugar and enough fresh water to cover them. Place a plate on the top of the basin, and allow the prunes to soak all night if possible, or for a few hours at least. Then turn the primes and water in which they have been soaked into a fined saucepan. Add a little finely- peeled lemon rind, or cinnamon or cloves if pre- ferred, and stew slowly until soft. Lemon juice, or a small quantity of red wine, may be added if liked. Note.—The prunes may be cooked in a jar instead of a saucepan. Place the jar in a saucepan with boiling water to reach half-way up the sides, and keep slowly simmering until the prunes are soft.