COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 14 washed in soapy water with a little soda, then thoroughly rinsed, wrung out, and hung up to dry. At the end of the week they ought to be laid aside in order to have a more thorough washing and boiling with the rest of the household linen, and a fresh supply put into use. Zinc. Sometimes the surrounding of a sink is covered with zinc, and this may be cleaned in the following way : Scrub first with hot soapy water to which a little soda has been added. Rinse and dry. The zinc may then be polished with a little whiten- ing mixed to a paste with turpentine. Apply with a piece of flannel, and when dry rub off with a duster. Cake Tins.—Cake tins, like omelet pans, should not be washed oftener than is necessary. If they have been lined with paper, a good rub with un- printed paper or with a dry cloth should be quite sufficient to clean them. When they do require washing, see that they are thoroughly dry before being laid away, as they are very liable to rust. They should be put on the rack above the stove or in a cool oven for a short time. Tin Lids, Moulds, and Dish Covers.—Hot water with a little soap powder or plain soap should be used for washing these. They must be well rinsed and then dried at once. Saucepan lids should be washed, or at least well wiped with a cloth each time after use. The rim must have special attention, as any grease from a stew or such-like will lodge there. It is a good plan to give all saucepan lids a good washing once a week. A brush may be used when washing fancy moulds of any kind. When the insides become difficult to clean the moulds should be put into a saucepan with hot water and a little soda, and boiled for half an hour. This will loosen any matter or burnt pieces which may adhere to them. Th^y may also be scoured with a little silver sand, or Brooke’s soap may be used to remove any discoloration. Thorough rinsing will be necessary. All tinned goods must be well dried before being put away, as they are liable to rust. Tins that are put up for show may be polished to make them look bright, but this should never be attempted before making sure that they are quite free from grease. Make a smooth paste with whitening and water—rub this on the tins with a piece of flannel, and when dry, rub off with a duster. A soft brush may be used to remove the whitening from any corners. A few drops of ammonia may be added to the whitening, but as the tinning of some moulds and lids is very thin, strong cleansers should, as a rule, be avoided. The inside of moulds should never be polished. Sieves.—A sieve should be cleaned as soon as possible after it has been used. If any substance is allowed to harden on it the cleaning will be much more difficult. Wash thoroughly with a little hot water and soda and scrub well with a brush. If it is a wire sieve, hold it up to the light and see that none of the little holes are.blocked up. Be par- ticular also to scrub round the sides where the rim joins the surface part. Rinse well and dry with a strong cloth. The sieve should then be put in a warm place or at an open window to dry. If this is not attended to a wire sieve will become rusty and a hair one coated with mildew. Sieves must always be kept in a dry and clean place. Pudding Cloths.—After a pudding cloth has been used it should be thrown into hot water with a little soda in it and allowed to soak for half an hour or so. Then wash out and rinse with care until no trace of the soda water remains. Dry in the open air if possible. Fold up carefully and keep in a clean place. A pudding cloth must only be used for its own special purpose. If the above process is not enough to make the cloth clean it ought to be boiled in a saucepan for half an hour with hot water and a small piece of soda, and then rinsed in the same way. The use of soap and soap powder should be avoided if possible. Jelly Cloths and Tammy Cloths.—Wash in the same way as pudding cloths. Mincing Machine.—After use a mincing machine should be taken to pieces and any remains, such as the fibrous parts of meat and vegetables, carefully removed from it. The different parts should then be washed in hot water with a little soap or soda and a small brush used if necessary. Rinse the parts in clean hot water, dry them with a cloth, and then set them on a tin on the rack or in a cool oven until all signs of moisture have disappeared. The machine may then be put together again, and it must be kept in a dry place to avoid all danger of rust. WASHING OF DISHES—GENERAL DIRECTIONS Before commencing the actual washing, see that there is a sufficiency of hot water, as without this it is impossible to clean greasy dishes properly. Then everything that requires washing must be collected together and put within easy reach. The contents of dishes on which food has been served should be put away on clean plates cr in basins, and all scraps of food removed from plates. It is even a good plan to rub over greasy plates and dishes with a piece of paper. If this is done before washing, the water will not become unneces- sarily greasy nor require such frequent changing, neither will the work itself be so disagreeable. Another aid to the washing of dishes is to fill with cold water all basins used for the making of pud- dings, pastry, and other mixtures. This should be done directly a basin is finished with, as it will prevent any remains of mixture hardening on the sides and making it doubly difficult to wash. Whenever possible it is better to have two basins or small tubs for the “ washing up,” one for hot water and the other for a cold or tepid rinsing water. This second rinsing water is especially necessary when a plate rack is used, in order that the plates may be put into it quite fresh and clear of soiled or soapy water. Pie dishes that have become burnt in the oven may be cleaned with a little salt or Brooke’s soap, or some of the scouring mixture (see p. 12) may be used. If the water is hard, it must be softened with a little soda or borax, and a little soap or soap powder must be used if required. Care must, however, be taken to avoid unnecessary extrava- gance in the employment of these materials ; there is frequently considerable waste caused by their needless use, and this must be guarded against. With regard to dishcloths, these are best made of some open material which will not retain the grease.