329 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS an iron one stir the whites lightly into the other mixture. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and pour the mixture into it, scraping out the basin as quickly as possible. Stir the mixture round with an iron spoon until it begins to set, stirring mostly on the surface, and not scraping the bottom of the pan. Then hold it a little longer over the fire until the omelet is nicely browned on the under side. Slip a knife under it, and double over first from one side and then from the other towards the centre. Then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve as quickly as possible. The inside of the omelet should be soft and creamy. 1413. Savoury Omelet (Omelette aux Fines Herbes) A plain omelet, made as in last recipes, may be flavoured in various ways, but one of the simplest is by the addition of a small quantity of herbs, finely minced or powdered, such as minced tarragon, chervil, thyme, marjoram, &c., or a mixture of the same. A very little minced chives or shallot may also be used, but this is a matter of taste, or the basin in which the eggs are beaten may be rubbed round with a clove of garlic. a silver knife. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, put in the bananas, season them with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and cook them gently for 3 or 4 minutes. Meanwhile make a plain omelet (Recipe 1412), and when beginning to set put the bananas in the centre. Fold over and turn on to a hot dish. 1419. Brain Omelet Make in the same way as Sweetbread Omelet (Recipe 1436), using cooked brains instead of sweetbread. 1420. Cheese Omelet (Omelette au Fromage) 3 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 table - sp. grated Parmesan or Gruyere. A little made mustard. Make in the same way as Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), adding the grated cheese and mustard to the yolks of eggs. A little grated cheese may also be sprinkled over the omelet when finished, and browned for a few seconds under the grill of a gas stove. 1414. Anchovy Omelet (Omelette aux Anchois) Make an omelet in the same way as directed for Plain Omelet (Recipe 1412), incorporating with the eggs two filleted anchovies cut in very small pieces and \ tea-spoonful anchovy essence. Cook and serve in the same way, and when ready garnish with fillets of anchovy cut in long narrow strips and made hot over boiling water. 1415. Asparagus Omelet (Omelette aux Pointes d’Asperges) Take some cooked asparagus and cut the tender part into pieces about 1 inch in length (asparagus points). Then proceed to make a plain omelet as directed in Recipe 1412, adding to the eggs before cooking some of thg_ asparagus points. Then cook and serve the omelet in the usual way, garnish- ing with little bunches of the asparagus points which have been heated in some light sauce or gravy. 1416. Omelet with Bacon, 1 (Omelette au Lard) 3 eggs. | oz. butter. 2 oz. bacon. Seasoning. Cut the bacon in dice. (If it is very salt, it is better to blanch it and dry it before doing this.) Melt the butter in the omelet pan, put in the bacon, and fry it until nicely browned. Then make an omelet -with the eggs (see Recipe 1412), adding seasoning to taste (salt will scarcely be necessary), and mix in the pieces of bacon during the cooking. 1417. Omelet with Bacon, 2 (Omelette au Lard) Make a plain or savoury omelet, and garnish it when dished with thin slices of grilled or fried bacon. 1418. Banana Omelet 2 bananas. | oz. butter. | A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. | A plain omelet. Choose the bananas not too ripe, peel them, and cut them in slices about § inch in thickness with 1421. Omelet with Chicken (Omelette & la Reine) 2 or 3 table-sps. cooked chicken. 1 table-sp. cooked ham or tongue. 2 table-sps. white sauce. Grated lemon rind. Lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. A plain or savoury omelet. Some good gravy. First prepare the mixture for filling the omelet. Mince the chicken and ham finely and heat them in a small saucepan along with the white sauce. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. Make a plain or savoury omelet, and put the chicken mixture in the centre before folding it over. Serve with a little good gravy or some thin tomato sauce poured round. 1422. Omelet with Chicken Livers (Omelette a la Turque) 3 chicken livers. 1 gill brown sauce. \ oz. butter. Seasoning. A plain or omelet. savoury Wash the livers, being careful to remove the gall and any discoloured parts, dry them, and cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small sauce- pan, put in the liver, and saute it until it has lost its raw appearance. Then add the sauce and seasoning to taste, and simmer all together about 10 minutes. Make an omelet as directed in Recipe 1411 or 1412, and before folding it over put a spoonful of the liver in the middle. Serve on a hot dish, put the remainder of the liver in little heaps at the ends, and pour the sauce round. Note.—A little tomato puree added to the sauce would be an improvement. 1423. Curry Omelet (Omelette a l’lndienne) 1 gill curry sauce. 1 cupful boiled rice. A plain omelet. 1 dessert - sp. curry paste. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. Make a plain omelet according to Recipe 1412, adding the curry paste and the chutney (finely