302 COOKERY EOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the risotto (see Recipe 1596), and when the par- tridges are ready, arrange it in an oval-shaped mound on a hot dish. Remove the trussing strings from the partridges, cut each one in four pieces, and place them on the top. Strain the sauce, remove all grease from the top, add a garnish of shred truffles, or cooked and shred mushrooms, and pour it over the partridges. Note.—A duckling, grouse, or pigeons may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, 40 to 50 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 1236. Chartreuse of Partridge (Chartreuse de Perdrix aux Choux) Prepare a partridge with cabbage as directed in last recipe, using plenty of cabbage. Take a plain mould, 1.) to 2 pints in size, grease it well with butter and line it completely with carrot and turnip cut in fancy shapes, and small pieces of French beans, which have been cooked separately in boiling salted water. After decorating the mould allow it to stand until the butter has hardened and the decoration firmly adhered. When the partridge, &c., is cooked pour it into a colander and allow it to drain a few minutes. Lift out the bird and cut it in small joints. Remove the ham, sausage, &c., from the cabbage ; cut the cabbage across with a knife, and about half fill the mould with it. Make a hollow in the centre, lay in the pieces of partridge, and cover with more cabbage. Lay a folded cloth on the top and press gently to absorb superfluous moisture. Place the mould in a good oven for a few minutes until the contents are thoroughly hot, then turn out carefully. Cut the sausage and ham in pieces and place them round the sides. A little sauce or gravy may be served separately if wished. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1237. Roast Pheasant (Falsan Roti) Next to grouse a pheasant is perhaps the most popular of all game birds. It ought to be hung for some days before cooking, or it will have no dis- tinct flavour. In dry cold weather 10 days or a fortnight will not be too long, while longer still should be allowed if the game is liked high. A pheasant should always be well cooked. When plucking the bird, reserve the best of the tail Roast Pheasant the body of th9 bird. This will improve the flavour- and make the flesh more juicy. Or, instead of this, insert a piece of butter well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Now truss in the same way as directed for Roast Fowl (see p. 276). Lard the breast, or tie over it some slices of fat bacon. Roast in front of a clear fire or in a good oven, basting frequently with butter or bacon fat. The time will depend on the age and size of the bird; from 40 to 50 minutes is usually sufficient. A short time before it is ready, remove the shoes of bacon from the breast, dredge it with flour, baste again, and return to the oven to brown. When ready, lift the pheasant on to a hot dish, remove any skewers or trussing threads, put the tail feathers in place, and garnish with seasoned watercress or potato chips or straws. Serve good brown gravy and fried crumbs separately. Bread sauce may also be served if wished. Note.—It used to be the custom to leave the head and neck on the pheasant, but this is not done nowadays. Time to roast, 40 to 50 minutes. 1238. Boiled Pheasant Prepare and cook in the same way as Boiled Fowl (Recipe 1127), and serve with celery or any other suitable sauce poured over it. Garnish with rolls of bacon and cut lemon. 1239. Pheasant Cream (Mousse de Faisan) 6 oz. pheasant. 2 oz. ham. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill cream. 1 gill white sauce. Grated lemon rind. 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sherry Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A few green peas. Tomato sauce. Take 6 oz. of the white meat of a pheasant, mince it with the ham, and then pound well in a mortar with the white sauce, eggs, and butter. When well pounded, rub this mixture through a fine wire sieve and put it into a basin. Add the sherry and seasoning, and then the cream whipped stiffly. Mix lightly. Grease a plain mould with some clarified butter, decorate it with cooked green peas, or some finely-chopped parsley and truffles cut in fancy shapes; pour in the pheasant mixture and cover with greased paper. Steam slowly and steadily until firm to the touch, and then allow it to stand for a few minutes after it is removed from the pan. Turn out carefully on to an entree dish, and pour tomato or any other suitable sauce round. Note.—Rabbit, or other kinds of game, may be used in place of pheasant, and the mixture may be cooked in several small moulds instead of one large one. Time to steam, § to J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. feathers to use as a garnish. Draw and singe, cut off the toes, and scald and skin the feet. Then wipe the pheasant inside and outside with a damp cloth. Now take about J lb. lean, juicy beef, cut it in pieces, season with pepper and salt, and put it into 1240. Pintails, To Cook These are a species of wild duck with a long, pointed tail. They can be cooked in the same way as wild duck, and must be carefully basted, as the flesh is inclined to be dry. A sharp sauce should