PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 391 for other puddings when the heat of the oven is very strong from below. A baked milk pudding should never be the un- sightly looking object so often seen on our dinner tables. This is often owing to the mixture being put into a burnt-looking pie dish to begin with, or its boiling over in the oven and burning on the edge of the dish. In the first case the pie dish should be scrubbed clean with a little salt or Brooke’s soap before the mixture is put into it, and then, if the mixture should burn on the edges in the oven, it should be carefully scraped off with a knife, and the dish wiped with a cloth before it is sent to table. Then the dish may be further covered by having a pie-dish frill put round it. Buked Milk Pudding and the pudding itself should be lightly sprinkled with a little castor sugar. A Steamed Mills Padding.—Most of the milk puddings made with eggs may be steamed instead of baked. The most suitable are : rice, semolina, tapioca, sago, custard, and bread and butter. For steaming, use rather less milk, keeping the mixture somewhat thicker, as steaming is a moist heat and doesmot dry up the mixture like baking. An extra eggmay sometimes be necessaryto bind the mixture. The basin or mould used for steaming must be greased out very thoroughly with clarified butter, which must be allowed to harden on the basin; or, while it is still soft, the basin or mould may be coated with brown sugar or with fine biscuit crumbs. Any carelessness in the preparation of the mould will cause the pudding to stick. Steam milk puddings very slowly, or the eggs will curdle, and allow them to stand for a minute or two before turning them out. 1703. Barley Pudding (without Eggs) 2 oz. pearl barley. A little water. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. Sugar to taste. A little flavouring. A pinch of salt. First wash and blanch the barley, that is, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring this to the boil, strain and rinse the barley. This blanching makes the barley a better colour. Then put it into a basin, cover it with cold water and let it stand overnight. Next day put it into a well-greased pie dish with the milk, sugar, and flavouring to taste, and the butter broken in small pieces. Bake in a slow oven until the barley is thoroughly cooked, stirring up the barley once or twice towards the beginning of the cooking. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 per- sons. Probable cost, 4d. 1704. Barley Pudding (with Eggs) 2 oz. pearl barley. 1 gill water. 1 pt. milk. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. Grated lemon rind. A pinch of salt. A small piece of butter. Wash and blanch the barley as directed above, and, if time permits, allow it to soak overnight in the gill of cold water. Then put it into a saucepan with the milk and a small piece of butter and allow it to simmer slowly until it is quite soft. Stir frequently, and add more milk or water if the mixture becomes too thick. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the sugar, the grated rind of half a lemon, and the yolks of one or two eggs. Whip up the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—If a double saucepan is used for cooking the barley, it will require a longer time. Time to cook, £ to 1 hour. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost, 6d. or Id. 1705. Ground Barley Pudding Make in the same way as Cornflour Pudding (Recipe 1710), using ground barley instead of corn- flour. * 1706. Barley Custard Pudding 1 lb. pearl barley. 2 pts. water. 2 table-sps. Demerara sugar. 1 oz. butter. f tea-sp. mixed spice. 2 eggs. £ pt. milk. Wash the barley and, if time permits, allow it to soak for 2 or 3 hours in some of the water. Then put it into a saucepan with the remainder of the water, and allow it to simmer over the fire until quite soft and thick. Add the butter, sugar, and spice, and pour this mixture into a well-greased pie dish. Beat up the eggs with the milk, add sugar to taste, and strain this custard over the barley. Stand the pudding in a Yorkshire pudding tin with a little water round it, and bake in a moderate oven until the custard is set and lightly browned. A little cream served with the pudding will be a great improvement. Time to cook barley, If to 2 hours. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1707. Bread and Butter Pudding (Baked) 2 or 3 slices bread and butter. 1 pt. milk. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. A little flavouring. Remove the crust from the bread and butter and cut it in small pieces. Lay these pieces in a greased pie dish, making the dish just about half full. Beat up the egg in a basin, and add to it a little flavouring, the sugar and the milk. Mix well together and strain over the bread in the pie dish. Wipe round the edges of the dish, and allow the pudding to stand until the bread is thoroughly saturated. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve.