166 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 581. Fried Tomatoes, 1 (Tomates Frites) 4 or 5 tomatoes. A little flour. Salt, pepper. 1 egg. 1 tabld-sp. water. Bread-crumbs. Oil or dripping. Choose firm solid tomatoes and rather under than over ripe. Wipe them and remove the stalks. With a very sharp knife cut them in slices \ of an inch thick, lay them on a plate and season with pepper and salt. Beat up the egg on a plate with a table-spoonful of water and have ready some fine bread-crumbs on a piece of paper. Then dredge the slices of tomato with a little fine flour and coat them with egg and bread-crumbs (see p. 249). Prepare only a few at a time, as they soon become moist. Put a small quantity of dripping or oil into a frying pan and allow it to become smoking hot, lay in as many prepared slices of tomato as the pan will conveniently hold without crushing, and fry them first on one side and then on the other until nicely browned. Lift out when ready and drain on kitchen paper. When all are ready, serve them piled up on a hot dish garnished with parsley. These make a very good accompaniment to fried or boiled fish or meat Notes.—The tomato slices may be dipped into frying batter and cooked in deep fat if preferred. A little potted meat may be spread on the slices of tomato before they are coated. Time to fry, 7 minutes each lot. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 582. Fried Tomatoes, 2 Choose very small tomatoes, wipe them and remove the stalks, but be very careful not to damage the skin in any way. Melt a little butter or good dripping in a frying pan, put in the tomatoes and turn them about gently until they are cooked. They must on no account be pierced. Lift them out when ready and serve as an accompaniment to roast or fried meat or as a garnish. These are also very good served with fried bacon, and should then be cooked in the bacon fat after the rashers are lifted out. Time to fry, 5 to 7 minutes. 583. Tomatoes au Gratin (Tomates au Gratin) 3 or 4 tomatoes. I 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. | 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. Put the tomatoes into a basin, cover them with boiling water and let them stand a minute or two. Then lift them out, dry them and remove the skins. Cut them in slices, keeping them on a plate, so as not to lose any of the juice, and season well with pepper and salt. Mix the bread-crumbs and grated cheese together and greaso a small pie dish or fireproof dish. Put first a layer of the tomatoes at the foot of the dish, then some of the bread-crumbs and cheese, more tomatoes and so on, arranging them in layers until all are used up. The last layer should be the bread-crumbs and cheese. Lay the butter in small pieces on the top and bake in a moderate oven. Note.—There are different ways of preparing this dish—the cheese may be omitted and simply the bread-crumbs used, or a few chopped mush- rooms, a finely chopped shallot, and a little parsley may be mixed with the tomatoes. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 584. Stewed Tomatoes (Tomates au Jus) \ lb. tomatoes. I 1 oz. butter. | tea-sp. sugar. | Salt, pepper. Wipe the tomatoes and remove the stalks. Place them for a minute in a basin of boiling water, then lift them out and peel them carefully with a sharp knife, commencing at the stalk end. Now cut the tomatoes in slices or quarters, removing the hard piece from the inside, and put them into an enamelled or earthenware saucepan. Season with pepper, salt, and a little sugar, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until tender. Add the butter and serve in a hot dish. Note.—A little finely chopped onion or shallot may be added if wished. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 585. Stuffed Tomatoes, 1 (Tomates Fareies) 1 table-sp. good sauce or gravy. J tea-sp. dried herbs. A few browned bread- crumbs. 5 round croutons of fried bread. 5 medium-sized tomatoes. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. chopped ham or tongue. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 shallot. 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. Wipe the tomatoes with a cloth, remove the stalk and cut a round piece neatly out of the top of each. With the end of a tea-spoon, scoop out the soft part from the inside, and put it into a basin. Be very careful whilst doing this not to break through the skin of the tomatoes, and do not make the sides too thin. Season the insides with pepper and salt and turn the tomatoes up- side down on a plate to drain. The soft part from the inside must be strained or rubbed through a sieve and kept for moistening the stuffing. The best meat to use for stuffing tomatoes is ham, tongue, or chicken, but any nicely cooked Stuffed Tomatoes meat will do. Melt the butter in a small sauce- pan, add to it the shallot very finely chopped, and cook it slowly over the fire for a few minutes. Then add to it the meat, white bread-crumbs, dried herbs finely powdered, and parsley. Mix well together, season to taste with pepper and salt, and bind with the strained liquid of the tomatoes and a little sauce or gravy if necessary. Cook over the fire to swell the crumbs, then fill up the tomatoes with this stuffing, piling it rather high in the centre. Do not pack them too tightly or they will burst in the cooking. Sprinkle a few browned bread-crumbs on the top of each and place them on a greased baking tin. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven until tender, but not broken. Have ready five round