450 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD sharp knife and cut it in bars between the biscuits. Serve piled up crosswise on a glass or silver dish. Note.—Any nice cream mixture may be used in the same way. 2032. Walnut Cream (Creme aux Noix) 2 table-sps. water. Vanilla or other flavour- J pt. custard. | pt. double cream. J lb. shelled walnuts. ing. | oz. sheet gelatine. Decorations—Some clear jelly, pistachio nuts, glace cherries or crystallised violets. Prepare and decorate the mould prettily, and put it aside to set (see p. 432). To Make the Cream.—Put the walnuts on a tin and roast them in the oven for a few minutes, so as to draw out the flavour. When dry and crisp, pound them in a mortar, or crush them with a rolling-pin. Then make a custard, and proceed as directed for Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), putting in less vanilla, or some other flavouring, and stirring in the prepared walnuts just before mould- ing the cream. When required, turn out on to a glass or silver dish, and decorate with chopped jelly and a few half-walnuts that have been dipped in liquid jelly and coated with chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 2033. Whipped Cream (Crdme Fouettde) Double cream should be used for whipping— that is, cream that has stood on the milk for 24 hours; it should also be as cold as possible. Put it into a basin, and whip it with a wire whisk until it becomes thick and will hang on the end of the whisk without dropping off. At this point the beating must be stopped at once, or the cream will be turned into butter. Sweeten it to taste with finely-sifted sugar, and add the flavouring desired. Whipped cream may be flavoured in different ways, with flavouring essence, with liqueur, fruit puree, coffee essence, grated chocolate, &c. It may also be tinted by adding a few drops of colouring. Small pieces of fresh or preserved fruits may also be added to it. Whipped cream may either be used as a garnish for other dishes, or it may be served separately on small glass plates little fancy dishes. Tea wafers should be serv along with the cream. Note.—The cream may be made less rich by having some whipped whites of eggs added to it. 2034. Snow Cream 1 qt. cold water. I Juice of 1 lemon. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. | 1 gill cream. Put all the ingredients into a large basin and beat up lightly with a wire whisk. Remove the froth, as it rises, with a fish slice and put it on a sieve to drain. Continue beating until no more froth rises. Quite a quantity of light fluffy cream can be obtained in thus way, and it is much more economical than the ordinary whipped cream for garnishing trifles and other fancy sweets. PART IV VARIOUS FANCY SWEETS AND GATEAUX 2035. Apricot Souffle, Cold (Souffld froid aux Abricots) b pt. apricot puree. 3 or 4 eggs. £ oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. syrup from apricots. 2 oz. sugar. Asqueezeof lemon juice. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Chopped pistachio nuts. Prepare the puree by rubbing either tinned or bottled apricots through a hair sieve. Use a little of the syrup along with the apricots, and do not make the puree too thick. Put this puree, the yolks of the eggs, and the sugar into a large basin, stand them over a saucepan of boiling water, and whisk until it warms and thickens. Remove the basin to the table, strain in the gelatine dissolved in 2 table-spoonfuls of the apricot syrup. Cold Apricot Souffli and add the lemon juice and a little carmine. Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, whisk the cream until thick, and stir both these lightly, but thoroughly, into the apricot mixture. Take a china souffle dish. Tie or pin a band of white paper round the outside of it, in order to raise it 2 or 3 inches ; pour the mixture into this, and place it in a cool place until set. Remove the band of paper, either by damping it with warm water or drawing it off carefully with the aid of a knife, sprinkle the souffle with a few chopped pistachio nuts or with browned and chopped almonds, and serve it as cold as possible. Note.—Any other fruit puree may be used in place of the apricot. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd.to Is. 2036. Apricot Cream Biscuits 7 shortbread biscuits. Apricots (tinned). A few pistachio nuts. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. Flavouring. Choose round shortbread biscuits about 3 inches in diameter. Place a half apricot, well drained from