132 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD over the fire until they are thoroughly mixed with the butter and seasoning, but do not stir them with a spoon as it is apt to break them. Serve them as quickly as possible. Time to cook, 15 to 25 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 413. French Beans a la Poulette (Haricots Verts a la Poulette) 1 lb. French beans. 1} oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 yolk of egg. A squeeze of lemon juice. Prepare and cook the beans as in last recipe, but drain them before they are quite ready. Melt the butter in a saucepan and add the beans. Sprinkle in the flour and toss the beans over the file a few minutes. Then pour over the milk and simmer slowly until the beans are quite cooked. Just before serving add the yolk of egg beaten with a little water and a squeeze of lemon juice. Serve very hot. Sufficient for 4 persons. 414. Stewed French Beans (Haricots Verts en Sauce) 1 lb. French beans. I § oz. butter. £ pt. fight stock. | | oz. flour. Seasoning. Prepare the beans as in Recipe 412, either leaving them whole, or cutting them in pieces according to their age and size. Grease an enamelled or earthen- ware stewpan, lay in the beans and cover them with some fight stock, or broth, adding seasoning to taste. Cover the pan and allow the beans to stew slowly until tender, then drain, reserving the liquid. Melt the butter in the same saucepan. Mix in the flour, and then pour on the stock, strained from the beans. Stir until boiling and add more liquid if the sauce is too thick. Return the beans and make them thoroughly hot in the sauce, then serve in a vegetable dish, or in the casserole if suitable. Time to cook, | to f hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Beetroot (Betterave) There are different varieties of beetroot, but for table use the carrot-shaped root of a rich red colour is the kind most generally employed. Small young beetroots are best. When old they are apt to be tough and woody in fibre and arc not easily digested. Beetroots are very often sold ready cooked, those of a nice deep red colour should then be selected ; if to be cooked at home, care must be taken to choose them with a sound skin and then to see that this is not pierced nor damaged in any way before cook- ing. The pretty red colour is very easily spoilt if water is allowed to penetrate the skin when cooking. For this reason many people bake their beetroots instead of boiling them (see below). Beetroots can be served either hot or cold. The most popular way is cold with a simple dressing of vinegar or as a salad, and the vinegar helps to soften the fibre. They also form an agreeable vegetable if served hot, but are always improved by having a sharp sauce. The tops of the beetroot plant are sometimes served as a green vegetable. 415. Beetroots with Butter (Betteraves au Beurre) 3 small beetroots. 1 to 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. To Prepare and Cook the Beetroots.—Beetroots are very often bought ready-cooked, but if raw prepare and cook them in the following manner : Choose beetroots that are young and tender, the larger ones are apt to be stringy and difficult of digestion. Cut off the green tops and wash them very carefully in cold water. On no account must the skin be broken, or the juice will run out and the colour of the beetroots be spoiled. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water large enough to hold them without breaking, add salt in the pro- portion of 1 dessert-spoonful to 1 quart, and boil gently with the fid on the pan, until they feel tender when pressed with the finger. A beetroot must never be pierced with a fork. When ready, drain and put them on to a plate. To Serve.—Peel the beetroots quickly, cut them in quarters or slice them and lay them in a hot vegetable dish. Melt the butter, pour it over the beetroot and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Note.—If liked, a little chopped onion may be cooked in the butter before it is poured over the beetroot and a few drops of tarragon vinegar added. Time to boil, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 416. Baked Beetroot Instead of being boiled, beetroots may be baked in a slow oven, but they will require a longer time to cook. There is less likelihood of the skin break- ing when cooked in this way, but there is generally more waste. 417. Beetroots with Sauce Prepare beetroots as in last recipe, but instead of using butter pour over them some parsley, white, bechamel, or any other suitable sauce. A few drops of lemon juice or vinegar should be added to the sauce to give piquancy. 418. Stewed Beetroots 2 cupfuls cooked beet- root. 1 pt. hot water. 1 table-sp. cornflour. 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Peel one or two cooked beetroots and cut them in dice.. Put them into a saucepan with about a pint of hot water or enough to cover them, season