272 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1119. M6daillons de Ris de Veau a la Graziella 1 calf’s sweetbread. A little flour. 1 to 2 oz. butter. Potato cups. 2 or 3 table-sps. soubise sauce. 2 or 3 tomatoes. A little gravy or stock. Chopped parsley. To Prepare the Sweetbread.—Blanch and trim the sweetbread as directed on p. 242, then cut it in neat shoes or escalopes. Lay these between the folds of a cloth, put a tin or dish on the top, and press them with a light weight until cold. Then coat them with flour and saute them in hot butter until brown on both sides and well cooked. Potato Cups.—Peel 2 or 3 large potatoes and cut slices from them about \ inch in thickness and corresponding in number to the pieces of sweet- bread. Scoop out the centre from these rounds so as to form a cup, and trim them round with a knife. Place the little cups in a saute or frying pah in one single layer, cover them with cold water and add a little salt. Bring to the boil over the fire, simmer for 2 or 3 minutes, and pour off the water. Then put a small piece of butter into each cup, sprinkle ' with pepper and salt, and finish the cooking in the oven. To Prepare the Tomatoes.—Wipe them, remove the stalks and cut them in halves or quarters according to size. Squeeze out the seeds and watery part from the centre, and lay the pieces on a greased tin. Put a few small pieces of butter on the top, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and bake a few minutes in a hot oven or cook under the grill of a gas stove. Soubise Sauce.—See Recipe 742. Gravy.—Pour away the butter from the saucepan in which the sweetbread was cooked, pour in a little good gravy or stock and bring to the boil, rubbing down the browning from the pan. Add a small piece of glaze if necessary, and season with pepper and salt. Stir in a small piece of butter at the last, but do not boil again. To Serve.—Arrange the potato cups on a hot dish, and fill them with soubise sauce. Place a piece of sweetbread on the top of each and over the sweetbread a piece of tomato. Sprinkle with a little chopped parsley and strain the gravy over and round. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1120. Timbale of Sweetbreads (Timbale de Ris Pastry. About 1 gill white sauce. 1 or 2 cooked sweet- breads. de Veau) 1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. ham or tongue. A few mushrooms. Seasonings. Make some pastry according to Recipe 1445, and let it lie for some time. Meanwhile prepare the mixture for filling the timbale. Cut one or two cooked sweetbreads into small pieces, removing all fat and skin. Mix with them a few cooked mush- rooms cut in shreds, and a small piece of cooked ham or tongue, also cut in shreds. A little truffle may be added if wished. Have ready a little good white sauce to which the yolk of an egg has been added, moisten the sweetbread mixture with this, but on no account must it be made too moist or it will burst through the pastry and spoil the timbale. A little extra sauce can always be served separately if desired. Allow the mixture to become quite cold before using it. To Make the Timbale.—Take a plain timbale or souffle mould and grease it with a little butter. Roll out the pastry very thinly, and cut out a num- ber of small rounds the size of a two-shilling piece. Line the mould with these, arranging them symme- trically over the bottom and round the sides of the mould, until the inside is entirely covered, and brush over with white of egg. Then roll out the pastry again, thinner than for an ordinary timbale lining, as the mould already has a thin covering, shape it to fit the mould as directed in Recipe 1492, and line the mould neatly, allowing the pastry to project slightly above the edges at the top. Fill up with the sweetbread mixture, wet round the edges of the pastry, and fix on a plain round of pastry to cover. Bake in a good oven. When ready, turn out, and if not sufficiently browned, brush over with a little yolk of egg, and return to the oven for a few minutes. Note.—Brown sauce may be used instead of white, and other kinds of meat according to taste. Time to bake, 35 to 40 minutes. 1121. Timbale de Ris de Veau d la Monte Carlo Farce. £ lb. veal. Panada. Seasoning. 2 eggs. Butter. 1 table-sp. double cream. 1 cooked sweetbread. Cooked mushrooms. 1 truffle. White or brown sauce. Make the farce according to directions given for Quenelle Meat (see p. 267), and test a small piece in boiling water to see that the consistency is right. Take a plain mould, grease it well and line it with this farce, dipping the fingers into a little white of egg, and pressing the farce well against the mould. Reserve a little of the farce to cover the top of the mould. Cut the sweetbread into smal pieces, and mix it with some mushrooms also cut in small pieces, and a little truffle, also some cock’s combs if wished. Moisten with a very little sauce, and season to taste. Allow the mixture to become quite cold, fill up the lined mould and cover with farce. Stand the mould in a saucepan with cold water to come half-way up the sides, bring it almost to boiling point over the fire, then cook in the oven until the timbale feels firm to the touch and is thoroughly cooked. Let the mould stand about 10 minutes after removing it from the oven, then turn out and serve with white or brown sauce poured round. Sauce.—If brown sauce is used, flavour it with a little Madeira wine; if white, add to it 1 or 2 yolks of eggs and a little cream. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1122. Darioles of Ham & la Mireille (Petits Pains de Jambon a la Mireille) A little pastry. \ lb. lean cooked ham. 1 oz. butter. 3 table-sps. white sauce. 2 yolks of eggs. Paprika pepper. 1 or 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 1 or 2 tomatoes. £ oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 doz. olives. Brown or tomato sauce. Take a little pastry, not too rich, and roll it out very thinly. Cut out rounds with a cutter, and