FISH 111 a* W 321. Oysters & l’Amerlcaine (Huitres k 1’Americaine) 1J doz. oysters. 1 gill cream. 1 oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. white wine or Salt and cayenne, lemon juice. Put the butter into an earthenware casserole and allow it to melt over the fire. Add the oysters without their liquor, and season them with salt, cayenne, and the lemon juice or wine. Cook slowly for 5 or 6 minutes, then add the yolks of eggs and cream beaten together, and stir until almost boiling. If overcooked the sauce will curdle and the dish be spoilt. Serve at once with toast biscuits. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 322. Oyster Cutlets (Cotelettes d’Huitres) 2 doz. oysters (fresh or tinned). | oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. J gill oyster liquor. 1 table-sp. cream. Pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. A pinch of powdered mace. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Put the oysters into a small pan with their own liquor, bring to the boil and strain. Then remove the gristle from the oysters, and break them into small pieces with a fork. Put the butter and half- gill of lobster liquor next into the pan, and, when boiling, add one ounce of flour, and mix with a spoon until smooth and the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the pan. Then add the oysters and cream, season well, and mix thoroughly. Turn the mixture on to a plate and allow it to cool and become firm. When cold and firm, divide this into eight or ten portions, and shape each one like a cutlet (see Pish Cutlets, Recipe 342), using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands and board. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until of a golden brown colour. Drain well on kitchen paper, and put a small piece of parsley stalk into the end of each to imitate the bone of the cutlet. Dish the cutlets on a hot dish, arranging them in a circle, one leaning against the other, and garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. Sufficient for 8 or 10 cutlets. 323. Oyster Souffles, Baked (Petits Souffles d’Huitres) 1 to If doz. oysters. 1 whiting. 2 eggs. 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 gill oyster liquor, milk, or fish stock. A squeeze of lemon juice. A pinch of nutmeg. Put the oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, bring to the boil and strain. Then remove the gristle and break them into small pieces with a silver fork. Scrape the flesh from the whiting, free it from all skin and bone, and pound well in a mortar. (There should be \ lb. of this raw fish.) Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the oyster liquor or other liquid, and bread-crumbs, and stir over the fire until the mixture thickens. Add this panada to the whiting in the mortar, pound again for a few minutes, and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Put the sieved mixture into a. basin, and add the oysters, yolks of eggs, seasoning, and cream. Mix well. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture with an iron spoon. Pour into small greased souffle cases, china or paper, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, garnish with small sprigs of parsley, and serve at once. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 8 or 9 souffles. Prawns These are small edible crustaceans closely re- sembling the shrimp, although in reality more like a tiny lobster in form. They may be distinguished from shrimps in the following manner. Put your finger on the long spike, something like a beak, which projects between the eyes ; if this is set with sharp little teeth like those of a saw, the animal is a prawn, but if the spike is perfectly smooth, it Crayfish, Prawn, and Shrimp is a shrimp. Prawns are found in shallow pools among the rocks when the tide has gone out. They are much less common than the shrimp, and consequently more expensive. When alive they have scarcely any colour, they are almost trans- parent, but when boiled they become a bright red colour like the lobster. They may be used as a garnish, or, when shelled, prepared in almost any of the ways directed for serving oysters or lobsters. Scallops (PStoncIes) A shellfish somewhat resembling the oyster, but much larger. They must only be used when in full season and when very fresh. The roe should be a bright orange colour and the flesh very white. Scallops are very delicate in flavour, but they must not be overcooked, as they very soon become tough. They are very good fried or stewed. 324. Scallops, To Fry (PStoncles Frits) 6 to 8 scallops. I Pepper and salt. 2 table-sps. salad oil. A little flour. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. I Egg and bread-crumbs. Wash the scallops thoroughly, cut away the beard and black part, and leave them on a cloth to drain. Put the salad oil and lemon juice on a plate, season with pepper and salt, and marinade the scallops in this for half an hour. Then drain and roll them lightly in flour, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in deep fat (see p. 248) to a delicate brown colour. Drain well and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Only a few scallops must be prepared at a time. They must on no account be allowed to become moist before frying. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.