376 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Wash and peel the mushrooms and cut them in fine shreds. Put them into a saucepan with half the butter and cook them a few minutes over the fire, then add the ham, tongue, and truffle all cut in shreds, moisten with the stock or wine and simmer a few minutes longer. Now add the macaroni with the tomato puree or sauce, season if necessary, and cook again until nearly dry. When ready, add the remainder of the butter mixed with the flour, and this will bind the mixture together. Stir with a fork until cooked, and add the cheese last of all and oS the fire. The mixture must on no account boil after the cheese has been added. Serve in a hot dish, or use as a garnish to meat. 1619. Stewed Spaghetti \ lb. spaghetti. 1 oz. butter. 3 gills veal or chicken Pepper. Salt. broth. Break the spaghetti in pieces and put it into a saucepan with the broth or any good light stock. Allow it to simmer slowly until soft, and until the liquid is nearly all absorbed. Then add the butter, and season to taste. Serve in a hot vegetable dish as an accompaniment to roast or boiled meat. Notes.—The sieved pulp of one or two tomatoes may be added for a variety. Or, if a little grated cheese is added and poached eggs served on the top it will make a very good luncheon or supper dish. Time to stew, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 1620. Spaghetti with Bacon i lb. spaghetti. I 1 dessert -sp. parsley. | lb. bacon. \ pt. stock. | Pepper. Break the spaghetti in pieces, throw it into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and boil it quickly for 10 minutes. Then strain off the water, add the stock, and simmer slowly until the spaghetti is tender and all the stock absorbed. Cut the bacon in thin strips and cook it a few minutes in a frying pan. Add it to the cooked spaghetti, along with 1 dessert-spoonful chopped parsley and a seasoning of pepper. Serve very hot. Probable cost, 8d. 1621. Spaghetti & l’ltalienne 3 oz. spaghetti. 1 gill tomato sauce. Warm water. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. Break the spaghetti in pieces and put it into a saucepan with warm water to cover it, and the butter. Simmer slowly until quite tender, adding more water if necessary. When sufficiently cooked and the water is nearly all absorbed, add the tomato sauce and season to taste. Cook a few minutes longer, adding the grated cheese at the last. Pour the mixture into a hot dish and garnish with small pieces of toast or croutons of fried bread. Probable cost, 6d. 1622. Spaghetti Rarebit 3 oz. spaghetti. | lb. Cheddar cheese. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. Break the spaghetti in small pieces, cook it in boiling water until tender, and strain. Beat up \ tea-cupful milk or cream. Seasoning. the yolks of eggs with the milk or cream, and grate or shred the cheese. Then put into a fined or earthenware saucepan the butter, cheese, and spag- hetti, and heat them carefully over the fire. Add the liquid, season to taste, and stir again until the mixture is thoroughly hot and the cheese melted. Care must be taken that it does not boil. Serve very hot with sippets of dry toast. Note.—Macaroni may be used instead of spaghetti. Probable cost, 8d. 1623. Noodles or Nouilles | lb. flour. I - A pinch of salt. 1 yolk of egg. | A little milk or water. These are made of nouille paste, a home-made form of macaroni. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, add the yolk slightly beaten and enough milk or water to make a stiff paste. It should be kept rather firm. Knead it well on a baking board until it no longer sticks to the hands, wrap it up in a floured cloth and let it fie at least \ an hour. Then roll out the paste very thinly on a floured board and cut in strips about 1 \ inches wide. Place three or four strips one on the top of the other, and cut them across in shreds. Shake these apart, place them on a floured tin or board, and let them dry. If not required at once, these can be stored in an air-tight box. To cook the nouilles, throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water and boil about 10 minutes, then drain. These can either be used as a garnish for soup or in place of macaroni in many other dishes. PART III NUT DISHES NUTS AND THEIR VALUE Nuts of various kinds are now becoming quite a popular food. Societies are springing up everywhere recommending the use of vegetable foods, and of nuts and fruit in particular ; not only as an adjunct to our dessert course, but as an important part of our diet. Nuts are among the most nourishing of our vege- table foods, along with potatoes they are said to have been the principal diet of the monks in many of the old monasteries, while there is no doubt they played a very important part in the food of primi- tive man. To those who-adopt an entirely vegetarian diet nuts are almost indispensable ; containing as they do a large amount of proteid matter, which is valuable for building up the tissues and enriching the blood, they form a good substitute for meat, besides being able to supply the necessary milk and oil. Then again, they are not only nutritious and palatable, but are easy of digestion if carefully prepared and thoroughly masticated. The food value of nuts is often under-estimated by English people, and they are declared to be indigestible, but this is largely owing to their being served as dessert when the appetite has already been satisfied. A highly nutritious food of this kind, added to an already substantial meal, is quite