SWEET MAKING 609 but has now become a great favourite in this country. It can either be made from whole almonds, which would require to be blanched, thoroughly dried, and then well pounded with orange-flower or rose water, or a little brandy; or, it may be made from the ready-prepared ground almonds, which is a much simpler method and the one usually adopted nowadays. In fact it is even possible to buy the marzipan ready made in blocks or by the pound, but this comes rather more expensive. 2931. Marzipan, 1 | lb. ground almonds. 6 oz. icing sugar. 6 oz. castor sugar. 1 dessert-sp. rose or orange-flower water. White of egg. Be careful to choose good ground almonds— if they have been kept for some time they are apt to be musty—put them into a basin, and add to them the icing sugar, which has been previously rubbed through a hair sieve, and the orange-flower or rose water. Mix all together with the hands, and then moisten with enough white of egg to bind, kneading well with the hand. Or, if preferred, the mixture may be pounded in a mortar. When perfectly smooth, the paste may either be used as it is in its natural colour, or coloured and flavoured with different essences and liqueurs, according to the purpose for which it is to be used. Use colouring and flavouring very cautiously; it is always easy to add more, but impossible to withdraw. Be careful also to work the colouring well through the paste, or it will look streaky. 2932. Boiled Marzipan, 2 i lb. granulated or loaf sugar. 6 oz. ground almonds. 1 gill water. I white of egg. Flavouring. A little icing sugar. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and let them dissolve slowly over the fire. Then put on the lid, and bring to the boil. Now uncover it, and boil with the thermometer to 242°. Skim the syrup carefully when necessary, and wash the sides of the saucepan occasionally with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent the sugar graining. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the almonds and white of egg, and mix briskly for a few minutes. Then return the sauce- pan to the fire, and cook a minute or two longer. Turn the marzipan on to a marble slab, and work it first with a wooden spatula and then with the hand until smooth and firm. Use a little icing sugar when kneading with the hand, to prevent the mix- ture sticking. Flavour and colour as required. Any flavouring and colouring should be worked in while the marzipan is still warm. If it has become hard and dry, a few drops of warm water may be added to it. This marzipan will keep for some time if first wrapped in wax paper and then in a cloth, and kept in an air-tight box. 2933. Moulded Marzipan With Moulds.—Very pretty sweets may be made by moulding marzipan in little moulds sold for the purpose. Various fruits, flowers, vegetables, shells, &c., may be imitated in this way. The marzipan should either be coloured first to resemble as nearly as possible the colour of the article imitated, or the sweets may be painted over after moulding with a little vegetable colouring. Stalks may be formed with a small piece of angelica or a piece of natural stalk, such as the stalk of a raisin. The husk in fruit may be formed with a small piece of marzipan coloured brown, cut out in the desired shape and then pressed on to the shaped fruit, or with a little husk made out of cambric and sold for the purpose. The calyx of flowers, too, may be imitated by cutting a star-shaped piece out of thinly-rolled green marzipan, and so on. Moulds for the above are usually double, and they are made of a special preparation or of pewter mounted on plaster of Paris. Such shapes as the pea-pod, marguerite, almond, walnut, pansy, thistle, &c., are all favourites. The moulds vary in price from about Is. 6d. to 2s. Gd. each. When the moulds are new, they should be lightly rubbed with a soft rag dipped in salad oil, otherwise the marzipan will be liable to stick to them. They should be washed as little as possible, and hot water must never be allowed to run over the plaster of Paris mounting, as it would be liable to crack it. Recipes 2936-7 will give a good idea of how to use these little moulds. Small single moulds of tin can also be used for moulding, and these are cheaper to buy, as they Fancy Sweet Moulds only cost about 9d. per dozen. These can also be had in a variety of shapes, such as shells, walnuts, leaves, fish, &c. Flavour and colour the marzipan in keeping with the shape of mould to be used. Then divide it into pieces large enough to fill the mould, and roll them into balls or oval shapes. Take one piece at a time, and press it into the mould until the pattern is well marked. Then ease the marzipan away from the edges, being careful not to spoil the shape ; give the mould a sharp tap on the table, and the marzipan should fall out. The mould may be dusted out with a little corn starch or icing sugar if the marzipan is inclined to stick to it. As the pieces are moulded, place them on a tin and set aside to dry. Without Moulds.—Simple shapes, such as apples, pears, cherries, carrots, potatoes, &c., may be formed with the hands without the help of any mould; in fact with a little taste and ingenuity an endless variety of sweets may be made from coloured marzipan paste. 2934. Marzipan Slices, 1 Divide some marzipan into three equal-sized pieces, and flavour and colour each according to taste. One portion might be coloured pink and 2 Q