131 VEGETABLES AND SALADS very wholesome and nourishing for those who have a good healthy digestion, but broad beans should be avoided by the dyspeptic. Broad or Windsor Bean Unless very young the bean should be deprived of the skin which covers it, as this is very tough and indigestible. 409. Broad Beans with Butter (Ffives au Beurre) 1 pt. shelled beans. I Pepper, salt. 1 dessert- 1 to 2 oz. butter. | sp. chopped parsley. To Prepare.—Broad beans to be good must be young and freshly gathered. They should not be shelled until about to be cooked. After shelling, wash and drain them. If old, the skins should also be removed before cooking. To do this, put the beans into a basin with boiling water to cover them, stand for a few minutes, then drain, and remove the skins. To Boil.—Throw the beans into a saucepan of 6alted boiling water and let them boil gently until they are tender. The time will depend on their age and size. Any scum rising on the water must be removed. When ready, drain in a colander. To Serve.—Melt the butter in the saucepan, return the beans, season with pepper and salt, shake over the fire for a few minutes, sprinkle the parsley over and serve hot. Note.—If obtainable, a little chopped tarragon or chervil may also be sprinkled over the beans. Time to cook, 20 to 40 minutes. 410. Broad Beans in Potato Border \ pt. prepared beans. 1 small onion. A little stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 2 or 3 table-sps. tomato sauce or puree. Seasoning. Potato border. Choose very young fresh beans, and shell and skin them as directed in last recipe. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add to it the onion finely chopped and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then put in the beans with enough vegetable or light meat stock to cover them, put on the lid and cook slowly until the beans are tender. More stock may be added if necessary, but by the time the beans are ready the liquid should be nearly all absorbed. Add the tomato sauce or puree at the last and season to taste. Have ready a border of potatoes arranged round the edge of a flat dish (see Recipe 543). Mark it prettily with the back of a fork, brush over with beaten egg and brown in the oven. Put the beans m the centre of this and sprinkle the chopped parsley over. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 411. Puree of Broad Beans 1 qt. shelled beans. | 1 or 2 table-sps. bacon fat. 1 cupful white sauce. J Seasoning. Prepare and cook the beans until quite tender, see Recipe 409. Drain them and rub them through a sieve. Return the sieved beans to the saucepan, add the white sauce and bacon fat or a little butter or good dripping and season to taste. Make all thoroughly hot and serve in a hot dish. This is a very good accompaniment to boiled pork or salt beef. French Beans (Haricots Verts) A variety of the kidney bean when gathered while still green and unripe is known as French bean. The younger they are the better, and both pod and seeds are eaten together. The scarlet runner resembles the French bean, but it grows to a larger size and is coarser. 412. French Beans a la Maitre d'Hotel (Haricots Verts a la Maitre d’Hotel) 1 lb. French beans. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. To Prepare the Beans.—Choose young fresh beans; if old they will be tough and stringy when cooked. Wash them well in cold water, then if the beans are very young cut off the heads and tails only and leave them whole. If older, remove the string which runs down the side as well, and cut the beans in thin strips lengthways or across in a slanting direction into lozenge-shaped pieces. Lay two or three beans together whilst doing this in order to expedite the process, and as they are cut throw them into a basin of cold water. To Cook the Beans.—Have ready on the fire a sauce- pan of boding water, salted in the proportion of one dessert-spoonful to one quart; drain the beans well and throw them into this. Boil quickly from 20 to 30 minutes with the lid off the saucepan, removing any scum as it rises. When the beans are ready they will sink to the bottom of the pan, and must be taken off the fire at once and drained well in a colander. Avoid using an iron saucepan, as it will blacken the vegetable. To Serve.—Melt the butter in the saucepan, return the beans to it, season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and sprinkle the parsley over. Toss the beana