106 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 291. To Boil Crayfish Plunge them into boiling fish stock and allow them to boil from 8 to 10 minutes. Crabs (Crabes) Crabs should be bought alive, and should be used as soon as possible after cooking. Choose one of medium size and heavy, the light ones are watery. Preference should be given to those that have a rough shell and large claws. The joints of the crab should be stiff, the shell a good red colour, and the eyes bright. The male crab is considered the best for table use, and is known by its large claws. 292. Crab, To Boil First kill the crab by running a skewer down between the eyes. Put a large saucepan or fish kettle over the fire with sufficient water to cover the crab, and add salt to make it as salt as sea water. When quite boiling, plunge in the crab, boil quickly the first few minutes and then more slowly until the crab is ready. From 20 to 40 minutes’ cooking will be required, according to size, and the water must be skimmed if necessary. The crab must not be overcooked or the flesh will become hard and thready. When ready, drain and serve as directed. Notes.—Anyone not accustomed to handling crabs should h'ft them when living with a pair of tongs, as the larger ones can give a nasty bite. Court bouillon (see p. 79) may be used instead of water for boiling the crab. Time to boil, 20 to 40 minutes. meat, getting rid of all the finer pieces of shell and finny parts, crack the claws and pick the meat from them also. Chop the meat finely, and put it into a saucepan with all the other ingredients except the browned bread-crumbs and butter. Season to taste, and make thoroughly hot over the fire, stirring all the time. Havo the shell weli scrubbed, dried and greased with a little butter, and fill it up with the hot mixture. Sprinkle the top with browned bread-crumbs, put two or three small pieces of butter on the top, and bake in the oven or in front of the fire about 15 minutes. Serve on a dish paper, garnished with parsley, cut lemon, and some of the small claws of the crab. Note.—If liked 2 table-spoonfuls tomato puree may be used to moisten the mixture instead of the sauce. Time, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 294. Dressed 1 boiled crab (medium size). 2 table-sps. cream or salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. white vinegar or lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. made mustard. Crab, Cold, 1 1 tea-sp. tarragon or chilli vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. Cayenne, salt. Pick the meat from the crab as directed in last recipe, and chop it finely. Mix all the in- gredients together in a basin, and season rather highly with salt and cayenne. Wash and dry the shell, and fill it with the mixture. Garnish with sprigs of parsley or watercress and cut lemon, or with chopped white of egg, sieved yolk of egg, and Dressed Crab 293. Dressed Crab, Hot 1 boiled crab (medium size) 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 table-sps. cream or melted butter. 1 table-sp. vinegar or lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. A little grated lemon rind. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. A pinch of nutmeg. Cayenne and salt. A few browned bread- crumbs. A small piece of butter. To Extract the Meat.—Twist off the large and small'claws, and lay the crab on its back. Pull off the loose flaps or “ aprons ” and separate the upper shell from the lower one. Remove the gills or feathery parts from the sides, also called “ dead men’s fingers,” the stomach, which is like a little bag and lies near the head, and the little twist of intestines with the greenish substance. These are the only parts that are not good. Pick out all the chopped parslfey, arranged in a pattern. Lobster butter or green butter (Recipe 768) put through a forcing bag will also make a pretty decoration. Some of the small claws may be used for decorating. Notes.—1 or 2 table-spoonfuls mayonnaise sauce may be used instead of the oil and vinegar, or 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls white wine, such as Chablis or Sauterne, may be used instead of some of the vinegar. The mixture may be served in a fancy china dish instead of the crab shell. Sufficient for 4 persons. 295. Dressed Crab, Cold, 2 (Crabe Dress6) 1 large crab. 1 shallot. 1 gherkin. Chopped parsley. Chopped chervil. Salt, pepper. Made mustard. Hard-boiled egg. Cook the crab according to directions given in Recipe 292. Remove the meat from the claws, cut