COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 476 to the bottles when packing. This latter method keeps the fruit a beautiful colour, but it would be well to use syrup instead of water, because, pre- served in this way, they are richer in flavour and appearance. 2171. Raspberries and Red Currants Raspberries and currants together make one of the very best fruits for winter use. They are always liked, and as they keep their colour well when bottled they look appetising. Discrimina- tion should be used in the weather for bottling, and a specially dry day should be chosen for doing soft fruits, for if saturated with rain they lose their flavour, and do not keep as well as when picked on a warm dry day. The currants should be carefully picked off their stalks, and also the raspberries. Place a layer of raspberries about 1 inch thick first in the bottle, and shake gently down ; then place a layer of red currants. Proceed in this manner till the bottles are filled to within an inch of the top. Fill up and proceed as in the foregoing recipes. Sterilise at 155째. 2172. Strawberries Of all the soft fruits strawberries are the only ones that are really difficult. To the uninitiated strawberries are always a disappointment. When the bottles are taken out of the steriliser they pre- sent the appearance of a quarter of a bottle of strawberries floating on the top of a sea of juice. The only way to overcome this is to empty the contents of one bottle into another after sterilising. When one bottle is full, fill with syrup and sterilise again. This fruit loses its colour very much during the process, takes a lot of trouble to do, and is rather insipid when done. 2173. Plums Plums should be quite freshly gathered for bottling, and only those of a fairly good size should be used. The smaller plums can always be turned into jam. The fruit should be quite firm and not quite ripe. For all the stone fruits it is better to use the larger bottles, as with the smaller bottles the mouths are not large enough to allow the in- sertion of any very fine fruit. The packing of plums in the bottles is an important item, because, if the fruit is not properly packed, the bottles present a very ugly appearance when finished. To pack properly the fruit must be graded, and plums chosen as near of a size as^ possible. It is always best to make a good beginning by getting three even fruits if possible into the bottom of a bottle. When the lowest round is started properly the rest of the packing is fairly simple. The bottles should be gently shaken from side to side, and a round piece of wood with a blunt end should be used to help to slide the fruit gently into place. Great care must be taken not on any account to break the skin. Some people prick their fruit with a steel knitting-needle at the stalk end to prevent the skin breaking, but we have serious doubts whether anything is gained by so doing. The bottles, after packing, are filled up with syrup or water. When very large plums are used, they may be cut in half with a dessert knife, and the stones extracted and cracked. The kernels may then be distributed among the fruit in the bottles. When placed in the steriliser the temperature should be brought up very gradually till it reaches 160째. If the plums are in good condition the temperature should rise to this point without the skin cracking, but, if the fruit is at all soft, 155째 will be sufficient. Victorias, Czars, and Monarchs are the best varieties for preserving. The well-known Pershore plum must not be forgotten, as it bottles admirably. 2174. A French Method Plums, which are bottled abroad, often have their skins entirely removed before they are packed in the bottles. This is done by dipping the fruit into very hot water, when it will be found that the skins may be removed without any difficulty ; but it is a matter of opinion whether any object is gained by the process, because the skins of plums do not become in the least uneatable from being bottled, and it represents a good deal more time and trouble. Moreover, when finished, the appearance is not so good or appetising as when bottled with the skins on. 2175. Damsons Bottle in the same way as plums. Apricots, Peaches, and Nectarines These fruits, unless quite small, should be cut in halves, always remembering to use a dessert knife, as a steel knife will not only make the fruit taste, but mark it and turn it brown or black. The stones should be cracked, and some of the kernels placed amongst the fruit when packing. The packing of the fruit is a slightly difficult operation. The halves should overlap each other evenly up the sides of the bottle, no space being left. Before trying packing of this sort it would be well to pur- chase a properly packed bottle and use it as a model. Care must be taken that all the juice which the fruit loses when it is being cut is saved and put into the bottles with the kernels. This can be done by halving the fruit on a plate. As these are choice fruits, syrup may be used in the bottling instead of water. When used, the fruit must not be ripe, but quite firm. Care must be taken not to bruise it when placing in the bottles. Bring it gradually up to a temperature of 155째, following in all cases the general directions for bottling. As apricots, peaches, and nectarines are generally expensive in this country, they are not so much used for bottling, though they are very delicious, and for those who have gardens they are quite worth doing. 2176. Apples and Pears These should be carefully and evenly peeled before bottling. They should be cut down the middle as already advised for peaches, &c., remov- ing the cores. Have ready a basin of water into which some lemon juice has been squeezed; drop the fruit into this, and then fill the bottles with the fruit so prepared, and at once add the water or syrup. If there is any delay, the fruit will turn brown, and it is to prevent this happening that it is dropped into the basin of water, the lemon juice keeping it white.