COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 220 4 persons. Probable cost, la. to Is. 2d. pan and brown it in the oven a few minutes. remove the bone, and press between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Then trim Spiced Beef neatly, and brush over with a little melted glaze. Serve cold. 866. Ox Cheek, Stewed (Tete de Bcsuf en Ragout) | ox cheek. Vegetables. A bunch of herbs. Seasoning. Cold water or stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. Bone the ox cheek, if this has not already been done by the butcher, wash it well, and let it soak for several hours in cold water. Then wash in warm water and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Put the pieces of cheek and the bones into a sauee- Ean, cover them with cold water or stock, and ring to the boil. Then skim and add vegetables for flavouring, a bunch of herbs, pepper and salt. Stew slowly until the pieces of cheek are quite tender, keeping them just covered with the liquid all the time. When ready, strain, reserving the liquid. Melt the butter in the saucepan and let it brown, add the flour, and mix it in, allowing it to brown also ; then pour in 1 pint of the liquid, and stir until boiling. Add more seasoning if necessary, and return the pieces of cheek to re- heat. Serve neatly, and garnish the dish with nicely cooked spinach, or with some of the vege- tables cut in fancy shapes. Notes.—A little wine may be added to the sauce If liked, also the juice of half a lemon. The bones and remains of vegetables must be kept for making soup or stock. A cow-heel is sometimes stewed along with the cheek. Time to stew, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 867. Ox Cheek, Stuffed and Braised (Tete de Boeuf Farci) 1 ox cheek. for braising. Veal stuffing. Tomatoes to garnish. Stock and vegetables Bone and wash the head as directed in last recipe, but keep the flesh in one piece. When thoroughly clean, dry the meat and spread it out on a board. Season it well with pepper and salt, and spread it with veal stuffing (Recipe 1281). Roll up, and bind securely with tape or string. Then braise according to General Directions for Braising (see p. 210). The meat must be kept well basted with the stock during the time of cooking; and must not be allowed to become too dry. When ready, lift the meat out of the braising Strain the stock, and boil it down until it is almost a glaze. Place the meat on a hot dish, remove the tape or string, pour the glaze over, and garnish with small baked tomatoes or any other vegetable preferred. Time to braise, 4 to 5 hours. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 2s. 9d. 868. Potted Head J ox cheek. 1 ox foot. Water. Salt. Pepjiet. Wash and cleanse the cheek thoroughly, using several waters. Also wash and scrape the foot and cut it in pieces. Put both into a large basin, cover them with warm water, add a handful of salt, and soak for 2 or 3 hours. Then rinse and put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, add 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and bring very slowly to the boil. Skim carefully, and simmer from 2J to 3 hours, or until the meat is tender. Now strain, and cut all the meat from the cheek and foot. Return the bones to the saucepan with the liquid, adding more water if there is not enough to cover them. Allow these to cook for 2 hours longer, then strain and cool. Next day remove all the fat from the top of the stock, which should now be a jelly, and put it into a saucepan. Trim and chop the meat and add it to it. Add pepper and more salt if necessary, simmer about t hour, and then pour into wetted moulds. 869. Cow Hee! with Parsley Sauce 1 cow heel. Cold water. 2 onions. A small bunch of herbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper 1 slice of toast. Wash and scrape the heel and cut it in four pieces, removing the fat from between the hoof pieces. Put these into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil and pour the water away, rinsing the saucepan and the heel until rid of all scum. Now put the cow heel on again with cold water to cover it, and bring it to the boil. Skim if necessary, add the onions and bunch of herbs, put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly until tender. If the water boils away, more must be added. When ready, drain, reserving the liquid. Now prepare the sauce. Melt the butter in the saucepan, add the flour, and mix it well in, cooking it for a minute or two. Pour in \ pint of the liquid from the cow heel and stir until boiling. Season to taste, add the parsley, and a little milk if the sauce is too thick. Remove the flesh from the bones and cut it in small pieces, warm these in the sauce, and then serve neatly, garnishing the dish with sippets of toast. Notes.—Tomato, piquant, or caper sauce may be used instead of parsley. As a rule a cow heel is sent from the butcher’s ready prepared, but if not, it must be scalded and the hairs scraped off before blanching. The bones should be put in the stock pot. Cow heel may also be cooked according to any of the recipes given for Calf’s Feet, allowing a longer time to cook. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 3 or