COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 38 Second, stock is generally a stiffer jelly than first, as more of the gelatine becomes extracted from the bones. Fish Stock 2 lbs. white fish or fish bones and trimmings. 2 qts. cold water. 1 small carrot and tur- nip. 1 stick celery. A few parsley stalks. 1 bay-leaf. 1 doz. white peppercorns. Rind and juice of £ lemon. Salt. This is used as a foundation for fish soups and fish sauces and also for stewed fish. Any white fish or trimmings of white fish, such as haddock, cod, halibut, flounder, ling, &c., may be used for fish stock; the thick-skinned fish are the best. Fish such as mackerel, herring, and salmon are of too oily a nature, and too strong in flavour. By fish trimmings is meant the bones, heads, fins, and skin of the fish, and these can be bought from the fish- monger for a few pence, if sufficient cannot be obtained from fish that has been boned and filleted at home. Uncooked trimmings will make a better stock than those which have already been cooked. A cod’s head will make a very economical founda- tion for fish stock. A lobster shell, or the heads and tails of prawns and shrimps, would be a valuable addition, as they would help to give flavour. If a light-coloured stock is required, avoid using too much dark-coloured skin. Care must be taken to see that the fish or trim- mings used are very fresh and free from taint. Wash them thoroughly in cold water and cut them in small pieces. Put them into a well-lined sauee- Ean with the water and salt. Bring slowly to the oil, add a little salt, and skim well. Then add the vegetables cut in small pieces, the parsley stalks, bay-leaf, peppercorns, and thinly-peeled rind of | lemon. Avoid the use of too many vegetables, as they will not only darken the stock, but will overpower the flavour of the fish. A tomato may be added with advantage. Alio wall to simmer slowly from 1 to 1J horns, add the lemon juice at the last and strain ready for use. Fish stock must not be allowed to cook as long as meat stock, or it will become bitter. Notes.—E brown fish stock is required, the bones and trimmings should be well dried and fried in a little dripping before pouring on the water. This is not very usual. Fish stock may also be cleared in the same way as meat stock by using raw fish and the white and shells of eggs, but clear fish soup is rarely seen. When fish stock is used for sauces it is usually mixed with milk, or made with milk and water. Game Stock 2 lbs. trimmings or pieces of game. 1 Id. shin or neck of beef. 3 oz. bacon. 3 qts. cold water. 1 carrot, 1 turnip, and 1 onion. 2 sticks of celery. 1 tomato. 6 or 8 peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. A bunch of herbs. 1 dessert-sp. salt. A few mushrooms if possible. Any kind of game can be used for this, provided it is not high. Uncooked game is always better than that which has been already roasted, but both can be utilised. It is a very good way of using an old bird, or the carcase or trimmings of birds. A piece of beef is generally used along with the game. but it is not absolutely necessary. A piece of rabbit or some rabbit bones can also be used. Cut the game and other meat into small pieces, chop the bones and wash any parts that require it. Cut the bacon in small strips and melt it slowly in a large saucepan, put in the prepared game, &e., and fry them until nicely browned. Then add the water by degrees and bring slowly to the boil. Add the salt and skim well. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and cook slowly for an hour, skimming when necessary. Add the vegetables cut in small pieces and the other flavourings, and simmer all together for about three hours longer. Strain and set aside until cold. If slowly cooked and kept well skimmed, the stock ought to be nice and clear, but if a perfectly clear soup is wanted it may be further clarified. Bone Stock 4 lbs. bones. 4 qts. cold water. 2 carrots. 2 turnips. 2 onions. Salt. 2 or 3 sticks of celery. A bunch of herbs. 12 peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 2 oz. dripping. Bone stock is decidedly cheaper than that which is made with meat, but it is apt to be wanting in flavour. Still it is very useful as a foundation for many of the vegetable soups, and also in the making of stews and sauces, if no ordinary stock from a stock pot is available. Any kind of bones may be used for making stock, but uncooked are better than those which have already been cooked. If possible a ham bone should be included, as it will help to give flavour. In order to extract all the goodness from the bones they should be broken in small pieces. This is best done by the butcher when buying them, especially if they are large. Wash the bones in warm water, trimming awayany discoloured-looking meat or fat, and dry them in a coarse cloth. Melt the dripping in a large saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the bones and brown them on all sides, turning them over and over with a long iron spoon. When brown, add the water gradually and bring slowly to the boil. Simmer slowly for £ hour, care- fully removing all scum that rises. Then add the vegetables, herbs, and other seasonings, and boil all together for 7 or 8 hours until reduced to about half the original quantity. This stock should cook more rapidly than meat stock, in order to extract all the goodness from the bones. The bones will be white and dry and full of little holes if all the nutriment has been extracted from them. When ready, strain and stand till cold. Note.—If a light-coloured stock is required, omit the preliminary browning of the bones and do not use any dripping, Vegetable Stock 2 qts. cold water. J lb. carrot. 6 oz. turnip. | lb. onions. J lb. leeks. A small parsnip. | lb. celery. \ lb. trimmings of cauli- flower or lettuce. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. dripping or butter. A pinch of sugar. Salt. Vegetable stock is useful as a basis for many vegetable soups and also for vegetarian dishes of different kinds.