219 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES Soak the bread in cold water until it is quite soft, then squeeze it as dry as possible. Put it into a basin and beat it with a fork until quite free from lumps. Add the minced meat, the onion finely chopped or grated, parsley and seasoning. Mix all together and add the stock. Beat the eggs, add them to the other ingredients, and mix again. Carefully grease a plain mould and coat the inside with browned bread-crumbs. Pack the mixture into it, cover with greased paper and steam until the meat is thoroughly cooked. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and pour brown, tomato, mushroom, brown caper, or any other stat- able sauce round. Spinach and potato balls would be nice accompaniments. Note.—This mould is very good served cold with salad. Time to steam, 2£ to 3 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 3s. General Directions for Pickling Meat Meat used for pickling must be sound, fresh, and of very good quality. Before being put into the pickle it must be carefully trimmed, and any discoloured parts, kernels, or traces of blood re- moved, as these, if left, would tend to spoil the whole joint. Almost any kind of meat may be pickled, but pork and beef are the two most gener- ally treated in this manner Either bay-salt or common salt may be used for pickling. The former is considered less harsh than the common kind, but a mixture of the two is very frequently employed. Saltpetre is usually added to the salting mixture to give colour, but this must be used with discretion, as it is apt to harden the meat. Brown sugar is also added to mellow and soften the mixture, and sometimes special spices as well, although these latter are not necessary in the ordinary and simple pickling. There are two different methods of pickling, the dry method and the wet method. The former is supposed to give a better flavour, but it requires more attention, as the meat must be turned and rubbed with the pickle every day. The meat should also be well rubbed with common salt and allowed to stand for at least twelve hours before the pickling proper is commenced. In the wet method the meat is simply put into the pickle and allowed to remain the required time. It must either be completely immersed or turned every day, and must be kept well covered. ■ Pickling is best when done in cool weather. If it is only done on a small scale a large earthenware basin or crock will serve the purpose, but it should have a cover or board to fit it closely. If much pickling is done a wooden trough is better, as it is lighter for handling. Whatever the receptacle, care must be taken to keep it scrupulously clean; it ought to be well scalded and dried in the open air after use. 861. Pickle for Meat, 1 (Wet) 1J lbs. bay salt or com- 1 oz. saltpetre. mon salt. 1 gallon water. 6 to 8 oz. brown sugar. Put all the ingredients into a large clean sauce- pan, bring them to the boil and boil from 15 to 20 minutes, skimming carefully. Strain and use when cold. 862. Pickle for Meat, 2 (Dry) A lb. bay salt. | lb. common salt. | lb. brown sugar. 1 oz. saltpetre. \ oz. black pepper. 1 tea-sp. allspice. Pound the bay salt, mix all the ingredients together and use as directed. This pickle will keep for several weeks and can be boiled up and used for more than one lot of meat if wanted ; but as salt is so cheap, this is scarcely worth while. 863. To Pickle Beef (Dry Method) 5 or 6 lbs. beef. Pickle for meat. Almost any fleshy piece of beef may be salted, but a piece from the round or flank is generally used. The meat must be very fresh, and it is usually boned. Wipe it and trim it carefully, removing any kernels or discoloured parts; then rub the meat well with common salt and let it stand at least 12 hours. Wipe off this salt and Eut the meat into a pickling jar or earthenware asin and sprinkle over it a pickling mixture made according to last recipe. Bub this well into the beef and then cover closely. Bepeat this rubbing every day for 1C or 14 days, turning the meat each time. The mixture will become liquid, but the rubbing must be continued all the same. When the meat is sufficiently salted, lift it out, wash or wipe off the pickle and tie it into shape. Cook according to directions given in Becipe 824. Any quantity of beef may be pickled in this way, but if a larger piece is required the quantity of pickle must also be increased, always keeping to the same proportions. 864. To Pickle Beef (Wet Method) 5 or 6 lbs. fleshy beef. Pickle for meat. Choose and prepare the meat as in last recipe. Have ready prepared some pickle for meat as directed in Becipe 861, pour it into a salting trough or strong earthenware basin and put the meat into it. Allow it to remain 10 days. The meat should be completely covered with the pickle or else it will require turning every day. 865. Spiced Beef 7 or 8 lbs. brisket of beef. 1 lb. common salt. 2 oz. saltpetre. 1J oz. salprunelle. f lb. Demerara sugar. | tea-cupful of treacle. | tea-sp. cloves. \ tea-sp. black pepper- corns. 3 shallots. 4 bay-leaves. | tea-sp. powdered thyme. A little glaze. Pound together in a mortar the salprunelle, cloves, peppercorns, shallots, thyme, and bay- leaves. Mix all the pickle ingredients together in a large crock or basin, and warm slightly in the oven. Wipe the meat, and remove any discoloured part. Put it into the pickle, and rub it all over. Bub and turn the meat every day for a week, or until spiced sufficiently. Then lift out the meat, wash it, and put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to cover. Simmer slowly, allowing half an hour to each pound of meat, and skim when necessary. A few pieces of flavouring vegetables may be added. Lift out the meat when tender.