COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 52 off the beans and stir well for a minute or two. Put the lid on the pan and allow the soup to simmer slowly until the beans are quite soft. It will require from 2 to 3 hours to do this. The soup must be stirred occasionally while it is cooking, and should it become too thick, more water or meat boilings must be added. When ready, rub the soup through a wire sieve or colander into a basin, have the saucepan rinsed out and return the soup to it. Add the milk, season to taste, and cook about 10 minutes longer. Serve with crofltons of fried or toasted bread. Note.—The liquid in which a piece of ham or salt meat has been cooked will do very well for making this soup, provided it is not too salt. Or, a small ham bone may be added to the soup when cooking, to give flavour. Time to cook, 2| to 3 hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 21 pints. 51. Haricot Bean and Tomato Soup Make in the same way as haricot bean soup (Recipe 50), with the addition of half a tin of tomatoes. This must be added to the soup along with the water. 52. Italian Soup (Soupe Italienne) | lb. haricot beans. 3 pts. water. 1 table-sp. salad oil or dripping. Salt, pepper. 2 oz. rice, macaroni, or tapioca. 2 cupfuls fresh vege- tables. Grated cheese. This is a “ maigre ” soup, and is very nourishing and good if nicely made. First wash the beans and soak them overnight in cold water. Nest day put them into a saucepan with the 3 pints of cold water, pepper, salt, and the salad oil or dripping. Bring to the boil and add the rice, tapioca, or macaroni, broken in smallfpieces. Simmer slowly at least 3 hours, adding more water if it becomes too thick. Any fresh vegetables that are in season may be added to the soup. These should be prepared and cut in small pieces before being added, and sufficient time must be allowed to cook them thoroughly. Serve grated cheese such as Gloucester or Cheddar with the soup, but on a separate dish. Time to cook, 3 hours. Probable cost, 7d. Quantity, 3 pints. 53. Leek Soup, 1 (Soupe aux Poireaux) 6 or 8 leeks. 3 pts. second stock or meat boilings. 2 table-sp. rice. | pt. hot milk. 1 slice of toast. Salt. Pepper. Remove the roots from the leeks, most of the green tops and the outermost skin. Split them in halves lengthways and wash them thoroughly in cold water. Then cut them in thin slices and throw them again into cold water. Rinse well and drain in a sieve or colander. The water in which a piece of veal or mutton, fowl or rabbit has been boiled is very suitable for making this soup. Put 3 pints of this water into a saucepan with the rice, well washed, and bring it to the boil. Skim if necessary, adding some salt. Then put in the prepared leeks, and simmer slowly for one hour, or until the leeks are tender. Add the milk and season to taste. A little chopped parsley may also be added if wished. Cut the toast in small pieces, put it in the soup tureen and pour the soup boiling hot on to it. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. Quantity, about 3 pints. 54. Leek Soup, 2 (Soupe aux Poireaux) C or 8 leeks. 2 oz. butter. 1 qt. second white stock. J tea-sp. sugar. Pepper and salt. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. milk. 1 egg. 1 slice of toast. Prepare the leeks as in Recipe 53, put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, boil from 5 to 10 minutes and strain. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the leeks, and sprinkle them with the flour, pepper, salt, and sugar. Stir care- fully over the fire for a few minutes, but do not brown. Then pour in the stock and simmer slowly until the leeks are quite soft. Rub as much as possible through a fine sieve and return the soup to the pan to reheat. Add the milk and more season- ing if necessary. Beat up the egg and strain it into the soup, stirring all the time. Be careful the soup does not boil again. Put the toast, cut in small pieces, into the soup tureen and pour the hot soup on to it. Time to cook, 1 to If hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 55. Lentil Soup (Soupe aux Lentilles) f lb. red or Egyptian lentils. 2f pts. water or meat boilings. 1 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 1 onion. A piece of carrot, turnip, and celery. A bunch of herbs, f pt. milk. Pepper and salt. A pinch of sugar. Put the lentils into a basin and wash them well in cold water, removing any discoloured ones which float on the top of the water. Then pour over them the 2f pints of cold water or meat boilings, cover the basin with a plate and let them soak overnight. Next day strain off the liquid and reserve it for making the soup. Prepare the vege- tables and cut them in thin slices. Melt the fat in a saucepan, add to it the lentils and sliced vege- tables and stir them over the fire until the fat is absorbed. Next pour on the liquid in which the lentils were soaked, stir well for a few minutes and let all come to boiling-point. Add the bunch of herbs and seasoning to taste. Allow the soup to simmer slowly for at least 2 hours, or until the lentils are quite soft and pulpy. Stir the soup occasionally to prevent it sticking to the foot of the pan and burning. If it should become too thick whilst cooking, add more water or a little stock. When well cooked, rub through a wire sieve or colander into a basin. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Add the milk, and more seasoning if necessary; bring to the boil a.nd simmer a few minutes. Serve with fried or toasted crofltons of bread. Notes.—The water in which a piece of ham or salt meat has been boiled does admirably for making this soup, provided it is not too salt. Or a ham bone may be boiled in the soup to give it flavour. If time does not permit of soaking the lentils, the soup may be made without this pre-