COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 492 to drain off the oil in which they have been pre- served (see p. 494), and to use fresh salad oil in the dishing up. This will apply to all other fish preserved in oil, as the preserving oil cannot always be depended on, unless a very expensive brand is bought. Lax and Tunny Fish.—The former, a preparation of smoked salmon preserved in oil, and the latter (Thon marine), a fish very much resembling veal in character, are both favourite delicacies. They should be served in thin slices, very neatly arranged, and fresh oil or vinaigrette dressing poured over them. Garnish with parsley, tarragon and chervil, or chopped pickles. Herring and Mackerel.—Small fillets of these fish preserved in various ways can also be bought ready prepared, and provide another variety of hors- d’oeuvre. There are also the Dutch herring, which are salted and preserved in small tubs. They should be well washed and soaked for a short time in milk before use. Then cut in small fillets, ar- ranged neatly with vinaigrette sauce, and suitably garnished. Prawns and Shrimps can also be served in this course. They usually appear in their natural form, Dish of Prawns and should be very prettily arranged and deco- rated with curly green parsley. The pink-coloured (icrevettes roses) should be chosen. Smoked Salmon.—This form of salmon may be served either cooked or raw, cut in very thin slices, arranged neatly on a dish and then garnished with pickles, watercress, or cucumber. Sausage, Ham, Beef, &c.—Various kinds of sausage, such as Brunswick, liver, garlic, salami, &c., spiced and smoked beef, ham, tongue, &c., are served as hors-d’oeuvre, especially for luncheon. These should be cut in extremely thin slices, or rolled up into little cornets and arranged neatly on a dish. Then garnished with parsley and pickles, or with a little chopped aspic jelly. Foie Gras may either be served in its terrine, or cut in thin slices and garnished with parsley and chopped aspic. It must be served very cold. Salads of different kinds may also be served in small quantities, especially in the hors-d'oeuvres varies, as they serve as an accompaniment to the meat and fish varieties. They must be very simple in nature and mixed with vinaigrette or mayonnaise dressing. Radishes very often appear in the hors- d’oeuvre course, either as a garnish or prettily arranged by themselves in the hors-d'oeuvres varies. Sometimes the red skin is cut down in sections like petals, to make the radish look like a little flower. They must be served very cold or on crushed ice. Sandwiches, small and of a very tasty nature, can also appear in the hors-d'oeuvres varies, and they are generally appreciated, as they are so easily eaten. Fruit.—There are few hors-d’oeuvre more popular at the present moment than the melon (canteloupe). It must be served very cold, in fact it should be allowed to remain on ice for some horns before being cut, and then a generous portion served to each person. Sugar and pepper and salt should be served with it, sometimes ground ginger as well. Green figs are also popular when in season. Besides the above simple form of hors-d’oeuvre there are many little made dishes, which are particularly suitable when small individual hors- d’oeuvres are required. SAVOURIES The savoury has become quite an important course at even a small dinner, and the tasty morsel which ends the repast is appreciated by nearly everyone. Savouries are not difficult to make, but it does require some thought and manage- ment to provide them in sufficient variety. Odds and ends of all kinds can be utilised in the making of these little dishes; the remains of fish, vegetables, game, cooked eggs, sauces, &c., can all be brought into service, as the following recipes will show; in fact, before deciding what the savoury is to be, the first question should rather be, “ What is there to use up ? ” An intelligent and artistic cook should be able to multiply savouries ad infinitum, and the recipes here given should only be sugges- tive of many others. An after-dinner savoury should always be simple of its kind, especially after a dinner of many courses; something to clean the palate, as it were, after the sweets. A rich, creamy mixture, or anything of a substantial nature, would be quite out of place. For a luncheon, or for one of those short dinners which are so fashionable now, and where the savoury really takes the place of an entree, something more substantial may be chosen. A more substantial savoury may also be served as a supper dish. Although certain decorations and garnishes are generally recommended for the savouries here ex- plained, it must be remembered that these are not always obligatory, in fact very often others may be substituted according to the material at hand, as long as they are in keeping with the rest of the dish. Savouries may be served either hot or cold and, as in the case of the hors-d’ceuvre, success will depend greatly on the careful and tasteful dishing, the simple and pretty decoration. In houses where a savoury of some kind is served every day a variety of little moulds or serving dishes will be found most useful. These need not be expensive, but they will help greatly towards producing some- thing novel and artistic. Following are a few useful preliminaries, which will be found helpful in the making of various hors-d’ceuvre and savouries: PRELIMINARY RECIPES 2245. Croutes or Croutons for Savouries These may be made of fried bread or of toasted bread. The bread used should be light in texture, but without holes, and two days old if possible.