FISH 123 cornet, encircling each fillet with a ribbon of the butter. Heat just a minute and serve at once. Note.—A few mushrooms and truffles may also be used as a garnish, and hollandaise or a good white sauce may be used instead of sauce au vin blanc. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 380. Sauce au Vin Blanc Liquid from the fish. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 oz. butter. Strain the liquid from the fish into a small saucepan, and let it boil quickly until reduced to about 1 table-spoonful. Then place the saucepan in another saucepan of cold water, add the yolks of eggs, and mix together with a wooden spoon or small whisk. Now add the butter gradually, a small piece at a time, and whisk steadily over the fire until all is in. The sauce will then be thick and creamy like a mayonnaise. 381. Sole & la Normande 1 large sole. 1 bay-leaf. 1 small onion. White wine or fish stock. Seasoning. Sauce & la Normande. 1 doz. mussels, 1 doz. oysters. A few shrimps or prawn3. 1 doz. mushrooms. Croutons of bread or pastry. Remove the black skin from the sole and score the white across in several places. Take a fire- proof dish, large enough to hold the fish, grease it well, a.nd lay on it the onion cut in thin rings and the bay-leaf. Place the fish on the top, season it with pepper and salt, and pour round enough wine or fish stock to nearly cover it. Cook in the oven until the fish is ready, basting it occasionally with the liquid. Then make some sauce it la Normande (Recipe 731), adding to it the liquid from the fish, add also the garnish of mussels, oysters, mush- rooms, and shrimps or prawns, and pour all over the fish. Decorate with some pretty croutons of fried bread or pastry. Note.—Fried smelts may also be used as a garnish. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 382. Sole h la Rouennaise 2 filleted soles. Salt, pepper. Lemon juice. 1 gill fish stock or white wine. Lobster cutlet mixture. \ pt. cardinal sauce. 1 truffle. Hard boiled white of Trim and season the fillets of sole, and spread them out on a board with the side which the skin came off uppermost. Flatten them slightly and put a little lobster cutlet mixture (see Recipe 309) in the centre of each. Double over and shape the pieces neatly. Place them on a greased baking- tin, pour the wine or fish stock round, cover with greased paper, and poach in a moderate oven until the fish is cooked. When ready, lift the fillets of fish on to a clean cloth to absorb the moisture, then arrange them neatly on a silver entree dish, one leaning against the other, and either in a circle or a straight row down the length of the dish. Reduce the liquid left in the baking tin, add to it the cardinal sauce (see Recipe 712), cook a minute or two and strain over the fish. Decorate with fancy-shaped pieces of truffle and a little chopped white of egg, or any other decoration, which will make a pretty contrast to the pink colour of the sauce. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. 383. Soufflg with Fillets of Sole (Filets de Sole en Souffle) 2 small filleted sole. Seasoning. \ gill fish stock. | gill white wine. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. cream. 3 eggs. Trim the fillets of sole, season them with white pepper and salt, and double them lengthwise with the skin side inside. Place them on .a greased tin or dish with the fish stock and wine, and poach in the oven about 10 minutes. Then strain off the liquor, and keep the fish warm. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, and cook them together for a minute or two. Then add_ the liquor from the fish, and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the pan. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and stir in the yolks of eggs one at a time, and season to taste. Lastly stir in the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Have ready a large china souffle dish well greased, pom? into it some of the souffle mixture, and arrange the pieces of sole in a circle on the top. Cover with the rest of the mixture, and bake in a good oven until well risen and nicely browned. Serve at once. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 384. Fillets of Sole with Truffles (Filets de Sole aux Truffes) 2 filleted soles. 2 table-sps. bechamel sauce. 2 or 3 truffles. 1 table-sp. salad oil. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 8 artichoke bottoms. Potato noisettes. Bearnaise or tomato sauce. Flatten out the fillers of sole in order to make them as much as possible the same width at both ends, then cut them in three equal-sized pieces, and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Next mask each piece of fish with a thin coating of bechamel or other good white sauce, and lay a few thin slice of truffle on the top. Place the three pieces of each fillet together, one on the top of the other, and press them gently, making them as regular in form as possible. Dip them in flour, coating them very lightly, and then egg and bread-crumb in the usual way. Melt about 2 oz. butter in a saute pan or oven tin, and when smoking hot put in the prepared fish and bake it in a good oven until nicely and evenly browned, basting occasionally with the butter. The Artichoke Bottoms.—The bottled or tinned ones are the simplest to use. Drain and dry them lightly in a cloth. Then cook them in a small quantity of butter for a few minutes, seasoning with pepper and salt.