FISH 85 will help to mellow it. When the fish is ready, lift it out and drain, remove the skin and large bones, and use as directed. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Allow 4 to 6 oz. per person. 194. Salt Cod with Egg Sauce (Morue Satee a la Sauce aux (Eufs) 1 lb. salt cod. J pt. egg sauce. Prepare and boil the cod according to directions given above, break it into neat pieces or flakes, and arrange it on a hot dish. Cover with a good egg sauce (Recipe 687), and decorate with sippets of toast and a little finely chopped parsley. Or, a little of the hard-boiled yolk of egg may be rubbed through a sieve over the top. Notes.—Boiled parsnips or boiled beetroots may be served separately or used as a garnish. Other sauces may be used in the same way, such as oyster, shrimp, tomato, onion, or parsley sauce. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 195. Salt Cod with Parsnip Purde (Morue a la Puree de Panais) 1 lb. salt cod. 3 or 4 parsnips. Chopped parsley. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream or milk. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. Wash and brush the parsnips, cut off the tops, and scrape them from the thick end downwards until all black is removed. Cut them in pieces, throw them into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and boil them gently until tender, about 1 hour. Then drain and rub them through a fine wire or hair sieve. Reheat this puree in a saucepan with the butter, seasoning, and a little cream or milk. Prepare and cook the fish as directed in Recipe 193, remove from it all skin and bone, break it in small pieces and put it on a hot dish. Cover with the parsnip puree, and sprinkle with finely chopped parsley. Note.—Boiled or baked potatoes may be served separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 196. Salt Cod au Gratin (Morue au Gratin) 1 lb. salt cod. £ pt. white sauce. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. 3 table-sps. cheese. A little butter. grated Prepare and cook the cod as in Recipe 193, and break it in pieces. Put these on a greased fireproof dish and sprinkle half the cheese over. Cover with i pint good white sauce or bechamel sauce, and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese and the bread- crumbs on the top. Place on a few small pieces of butter and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 197. Salt Cod a l’Americaine (Morue a 1’Ameri- caine) 1 lb. salt cod. Seasoning. 5 or 6 potatoes. 1 onion. 1 oz. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 2 eggs. ! pt. milk. 3 table- sps. grated cheese. Prepare and cook the cod as directed in Recipe 193, and break it in small pieces free from skin and bone. Cook and sieve the potatoes and chop the onion finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the onion, and cook it for 5 minutes without allowing it to brown. Add the flour and mix it in smoothly with a wooden spoon, then pour in the milk and stir until boiling. Now stir in tbe prepared potatoes and fish with the yolks of the two eggs and seasoning to taste, and mix all thoroughly. Whip up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased pie-dish, sprinkle the cheese on the top, and bake in a good oven until well browned. A dish of baked tomatoes may be served separately. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 198. Smoked Cod a la Creole 1 lb. smoked cod. 2 oz. butter or dripping. \ pt. tomato puree. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. ^ lb. rice. Salt. Pepper. First wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with boiling water and a little salt, and let it cook 10 minutes, then strain. In another saucepan melt the butter or dripping, put in the chopped onion, and let it cook by the side of the fire for a few minutes without browning. Then add the strained rice, the fish cut in small pieces, and J pint tinned or fresh tomatoes rubbed through a fine sieve. Let all simmer slowly until the fish and rice are thoroughly cooked. Season with pepper, and salt if necessary. Serve hot. A few plainly boiled potatoes may be served separately. Note.—Any other smoked fish may be used instead of cod. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Conger Eel (Congre) This is a sea-fish of the same form as the fresh- water eel, but generally much larger. It some- times grows to a very large size. The flesh is somewhat coarse and oily, but, if carefully pre- pared and well cooked, it will make quite a good dish. When small the conger eel may be cooked in the same way as ordinary eels, allowing longer time, but if large cook like cod. It also makes very good soup. 199. Baked Conger Eel 3 lbs. conger eel. \ gill vinegar. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. Pepper and salt. (Congre Farci au Four) Stuffing, 2 or 3 anchovies. 2 oz. butter or dripping. A little flour. 1 pt. anchovy sauce. A middle cut from the conger eel is the best for stuffing. Wash and dry it well, then lay it in a dish with the vinegar, chopped onion, pepper and salt, and let it stand about one hour, turning the fish occasionally. Prepare a stuffing according to Recipe 1266, and add to it 2 or 3 anchovies, washed, boned, and cut in small pieces. Put this stuffing into the fish close to the bone, and bind it round with tape. Lay the fish on a well-greased baking tin, dredge it with flour, and place the remainder of the butter or dripping in small pieces on the top. Bake in a moderate oven, basting the fish occa- sionally. When ready, the flesh should leave the bone easily. Serve the fish on a hot dish, and re- move the tape. Have ready about \ pint anchovy