335 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 1446. Flaky Pastry 10 oz. flour. 7 oz. butter I A squeeze of lemon juice A pinch of salt. | Cold water. Weigh the butter, and let it lie for some time in cold water before using it. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin, and add the lemon juice. Lift the butter out of the water, and squeeze it dry in a clean floured cloth. Divide it into four equal pieces. Take one of these pieces and rub it into the flour with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until quite free from lumps. Then add sufficient cold water to form all into one lump. Mix with the hand as lightly as possible, and turn out on to a floured board. Knead lightly until free from cracks, and then roll out into a long narrow strip, rather less than £ inch in thickness. Take one of the remaining portions of butter, and with the point of a knife put it on in small pieces and in even rows all over the pastry, leaving an inch margin without butter round the edges. (If the butter is hard it should be worked on a plate with a knife before commencing.) Now flour the surface lightly, and fold the paste exactly in three. Turn the pastry half round, bringing the joins to the right-hand side. Press down the folds sharply with the rolling-pin, so as to enclose some air. Roll out the pastry again into a long narrow strip, and proceed as before until the two remaining portions of butter have thus been used. If the butter be- comes soft during the rolling, lay the pastry aside for a short time, before completing the process. The last time roll out the pastry to the desired thickness, and if it requires widening, turn it across the board and roll across. Never roll in a slanting direction, or the lightness of the pastry will suffer. This pastry is not quite so rich as puff pastry. It may be kept for several days in cold weather if wrapped in greased paper or in a damp cloth. Note.—Sometimes a beaten white of egg is used along with the water for mixing. Suitable for covering pies and tarts, tartlets, sausage rolls, and various fancy dishes. Probable cost, 9d. 1447. Puff Pastry (Feuilletage) £ lb. flour. | lb. butter (fresh). A pinch of salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Cold water. Weigh the butter, and let it lie in a basin of cold water for some timo before using it. Sieve the flour and salt into a clean dry basin, and add the lemon juice to them. Lift the butter out of the cold water and dry it lightly in a floured cloth. Take a quarter of the butter, and rub it into the flour with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until there are no lumps left. Then mix with cold water into a stiffish dough. Turn this on to a floured board and work it well with the hands until it will no longer stick to the fingers, and forms a perfectly smooth dough. Then roll it rather thinly into a square or round shape. The butter to be used should be as nearly as possible of the same consis tency as the paste. Form it into a neat flat cake, and place it in the centre of the paste (see above). Fold it up rather loosely, and flatten the folds with a rolling-pin. Then roll out the pastry into a long narrow strip, being careful that the butter does not break through. Fold it exactly in three, press down the folds, and lay the pastry aside in a cool place for a quarter of an hour at least. This is called giving the pastry one “turn,” and seven of these is the number usually required for puff pastry. The next time the pastry is rolled, place it with the joins at your right-hand side, and the open ends towards you. Give it two “ turns ” this time, and again set it aside in a cool place for at least 15 minutes. Repeat this until the pastry has had seven rolls in all, one roll or turn the first time, and after that, two each time with an interval between. The object of this cooling between the rolls is to keep the butter and flour in distinct and separate layers, in which it is the function of the rotling-pin and folding to arrange them, and on which the lightness of the pastry depends. When rolling, keep the pressure of the two hands as equal as possible. If the pastry becomes rounded, it shows that there is more pressure being borne on the rounded side than the other. After it has received its last roll, it is better to be laid aside for