216 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 843. Grilled Steak & la Maitre d! Hotel lbs. rump or fillet steak. 1 table-sp. salad oil or melted butter. Seasoning. Maitre d’lidtel butter. The steak must be cut from a well-hung, juicy piece of meat. The best are from the rump or fillet, or from the tender part of the round. The steak should be cut from 1J to 1| inches in thick- ness. Wipe it with a damp cloth, and cut off all skin and superfluous fat. Beat the meat slightly with a cutlet bat, and then make it as shapely as possible. If small round steaks are required, it is best to use the fillet cut in slices. Brush over both sides of the meat with a little salad oil or melted butter, place it on a well-heated gridiron, and cook according to directions given for broiling (see p. 208). The time will vary according to the thickness of the meat, and also to whether it is liked underdone or well cooked. Serve at once on a very hot dish, and put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top. The heat of the meat should melt the butter, and the parsley should look fresh and green. A little carefully picked watercress or scraped horse-radish may be used as a garnish, or a few small baked tomatoes may be put round the dish. Fried potatoes should be served separately. Time to grill, 12 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. 844. Grilled Steak with Tomato Sauce Cook the steak as in last recipe, put it on a hot dish, and pour \ pint hot tomato sauce over. Serve with mashed potatoes or potato balls or cakes. 845. Fried Steak 1 \ lbs. tender steak. Seasoning. Butter or gravy. This method of cooking is often more convenient than grilling, although it is not to be recommended when the latter can be managed. The steak should be cut not less than f inch in thickness. Trim and wipe it, and if too thick beat it out with a rolling- pin or cutlet bat. Heat an iron frying pan, and grease it with a piece of suet or fat from the meat. It is a mistake to use a large quantity of fat, as it only tends to make the meat heavy and indigestible. Put the steak into the hot pan; when brown on one side, turn and brown on the other, and then keep turning almost constantly until sufficiently cooked. When ready, place the steak on a very hot dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and put a pat of butter on the top. Or, make a gravy by pouring 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of stock into the pan, stir over the fire, working in all the browning from the meat, season to taste, and strain round the meat. Fried steak can also be served in any of the ways directed for broiled steak. Time to fry, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 846. Beef Steak in Batter 1 lb. tender steak. Salt. Pepper. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 2 oz. flour. \ pt. water. 2 eggs. 1 oz. butter. Make a smooth batter with the flour, water and eggs, beating it well, and if possible let it stand an hour before using it. Wipe and trim the steak and beat it out. Place it in a greased fireproof dish, and season it with pepper, salt, the powdered herbs, and chopped onion. Then pour the batter over and put the butter in small pieces on the top. Bake in a good oven until the batter is well risen and browned, and the steak sufficiently cooked. Serve in the same dish and as quickly as possible. Time to cook, about 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 847. Beef Steak with Bananas 1J lbs. tender steak. I A little flour. 2 or 3 bananas. | Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Either grill or fry the steak according to above directions. Peel the bananas and cut them in halves. Roll them lightly in flour, and then fry in butter until a pretty brown colour on all sides. Beef Steak with Bauanas Care must be taken that they do not break. Serve the steak on a hot dish, pour round a little gravy if wished, and garnish with the bananas. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. 848. Beet steak with Mushrooms 1| lbs. tender steak. I lb. fresh mushrooms. H oz. butter. Salt. Pepper. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 cup of stock. Prepare the mushrooms (see Recipe 513) and cut them in quarters. Put them into a small saucepan with half the butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Cover with the saucepan lid, and cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes. Then mix the flour gradually with the stock, add them to the mushrooms, and stir until boiling. Cook 2 or 3 minutes longer, and add the remainder of the butter at the last. Either grill or fry the steak according to above directions. Serve it on a hot dish, and pour the mushrooms round. Note.—Both mushrooms and steak should, if possible, be ready at the same time. If either has to wait, it should be the mushrooms. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 849. Beef Steak with Onions \\ lbs. tender steak. I Butter or beef dripping. 2 or 3 onions. I Seasoning. Skin the onions, cut them in very thin slices, and then separate them into natural rings. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, add a little salt, and allow them to cook from 15 to 20 minutes. Then drain off every drop of water, and dry the onions in the saucepan for a few minutes. Add a small quantity of good beef dripping or butter, sprinkle with pepper and more salt if necessary, and stir over the fire until a golden brown. Either grill or fry the steak, put it on a hot dish, and serve the onions round.