SAUCES SAYOURY AND SWEET 185 spoonfuls of cream, 1 or 2 yolks of egg, or an extra piece of butter after the saucepan is removed from the fire. 680. Caper Sauce (Brown) | pt. brown sauce. 1 table-sp. caper vinegar. 1 table-sp. capers. Add the vinegar to the brown sauce (Recipe 670) and boil for 10 minutes, skimming if necessary. rnhen add the capers, halved or roughly chopped. Note.—Capers are the unripe fruit of the caper plant, which are preserved by pickling them in vinegar. They are generally sold in bottles and should be of a greyish green colour. The unripe fruit of the garden nasturtium is sometimes used as a substitute. 681. Celery Sauce (Sauce au CSIeri) | oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 small head of celery. 3 gills white stock or milk. White pepper and salt. 2 table-sps. cream. Wash the celery, cut it in shreds, and put it into a small saucepan with cold water to cover. Bring this to the boil and drain oS the water. Pour in the stock or milk, stew the celery until quite tender, and rub as much as possible through a hair sieve. Then melt 1 oz. of butter in the saucepan, add the flour and mix it in smoothly. Pour in the celery puree and stir constantly until boiling. Add the cream and seasoning, and the remainder of the butter when the sauce is taken from the fire. The cream may be omitted and more milk used if the sauce should be too thick. This sauce is frequently served with boiled poultry or mutton, or a fricassee of white meat. 682. Cheese Sauce (Sauce Mornay) 1 pt. good white sauce. 1 oz. butter or 2 table- 2 table-sps. grated sps. cream. Parmesan. Make the sauce quite hot in a small saucepan, mix in the cheese gradually without allowing it to boil, and add the butter, broken in small pieces, or the cream just before serving. Note.—The cream or extra butter may be omitted if considered too rich. 683. Chestnut Sauce, White (Sauce aux Marrons) \ lb. chestnuts. 3 gills white stock. Rind of | lemon. 1 bay-leaf. 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Remove the brown outside skin from the chest- nuts, and throw them into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil for a few minutes, then drain and peel off the inside skin. Put them back into the saucepan with the stock, bay-leaf, and thinly peeled rind of half lemon, and simmer siowly for one hour cr longer until the chestnuts are quite soft and pulpyi Rub them and the stock through a hair sieve with a wooden spoon, and return again to the saucepan. Add the cream, season to taste, and stir until boiling. Serve very hot. Note.—Half a gill of milk may be used instead of the cream, but it should be mixed with 1 tea- spoonful cornflour, and allowed to cook longer in the sauce. This sauce is good served with boiled or roast poultry. 684. Chestnut Sauce, Brown (Sauce aux Marrons) 1 lb. chestnuts. I 1 gill brown sauce. 3 gills brown stock. j 1 lump of sugar. Cook the chestnuts as in last recipe. Rub the brown sauce through the sieve with the chest- nuts and stock, add the sugar, and stir all over the fire until boiling. A little wine may be added if wished. 685. Curry Sauce (Sauce Kari) 1 oz. butter or drip- , Ping; „ | oz. rice flour. 3 gills of meat or fish stock. 1 onion. 1 lump of sugar. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 small apple. Pepper and salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. Peel and chop the apple, and skin and slice the onion very thinly. Melt the butter or dripping in a small stewpan, put in the apple and onion, and fry them for a few minutes. Next add the curry powder, rice flour, and chutney, and mix well to- gether with an iron spoon. Add the stock, and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and let the sauce simmer for half an hour, or until the apple and onion are quite soft. If a smooth sauce is wanted, rub through a sieve before using, and return to the saucepan to reheat. Add the lemon juice and sugar just before serving, and a table-spoonful of cream would be a great im- provement. Notes.—A stalk of rhubarb, on a few green gooseberries, may be used instead of the apple. The amount of curry powder may be increased or diminished according to individual taste. 686. Devil Sauce 1 gill good brown sauce. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. (Sauce a la Diable) 1 tea-sp. made mustard. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chutney or J tea-sp. curry powder. A pinch of cayenne. Add all the above ingredients to the brown sauce. Simmer a few minutes over the fire and strain before using. A little red-currant jelly and 1 table-spoonful of sherry or Marsala may also be added. 687. Egg Sauce (Sauce aux (Eufs) \ pt. white sauce. 1 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 J oz. butter. If this sauce is to be served with boiled fish the foundation sauce should be made with some of the liquid in which the fish has been cooked, otherwise use white stock or milk. Make the sauce quite hot, add to it a squeeze of lemon juice and seasoning to taste. Chop up the hard-boiled egg and put it in also, and make all thoroughly hot. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the J oz. of butter just before serving. Sometimes the yolks of eggs are sieved and the whites cut in fine shreds or chopped, and this makes a better-looking sauce, although it is a little more trouble to make. Some of the sieved yolk of egg may be used for decorating whatever the sauce is poured over.