430 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1923. Rice Souffle (Souffle au Riz) 2 oz. Carolina rice. | A pinch of salt. 2 oz. butter. i i pt. milk. 3 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. I Flavouring. Well wash the rice, put it into a double saucepan with the milk, butter, sugar, and salt, and cook it until quite soft. Remove from the fire and beat it up with a small whisk, adding flavouring to taste and the yolks of eggs. Whisk the whites to a very stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When sufficiently cooked, turn out and serve with custard, jam, or fruit sauce. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1924. Rice Souffle with Pine-apple (Souffle au Riz) 2 oz. ground rice. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. 1 to 2 oz. sugar. 1 cupful tinned pine- apple. Pine-apple sauce. Heat the milk with the butter in a saucepan. Sprinkle in the ground rice, and stir with a wooden spoon until the mixture is smooth and thick. Then simmer for a few minutes until the rice is thoroughly cooked. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, and add about a cupful of pine-apple cut in small pieces. Add also the two yolks of eggs, and sugar to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased souffle dish, allow- ing room for it to rise, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. Serve at once with pine-apple sauce separately. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1925. Semolina SoufflG (Souffl6 au Semonle) 2 oz. semolina. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. castor sugar. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Flavouring. Rinse out a small stewpan with cold water, and put the semolina and milk into it. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, and then allow the semolina to simmer slowly for about 10 minutes until it is well cooked. Remove the pan from the fire, and add the sugar and any flavouring that is liked. Drop in the yolks one at a time, beating thoroughly between each. Put the whites of the eggs in a large basin, and, with a wire whisk, beat them up to a very stiff froth. With a metal spoon stir these lightly, but thoroughly, into the semolina mixture, and then pour all into a prepared souffle tin (see p. 425). Cover with greased paper, and steam slowly and steadily until the souffle is well risen and feels firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on a hot dish, and serve with jam, custard, or any other suitable sauce poured round it. Note.—Ground rice may be used instead of semolina. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1926. Tapioca or Sago Souffl6 (Souf!16 au Tapioca ou Sagou) 2 oz. small tapioca or sago. 2 oz. butter. J pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. Flavouring. A pinch of salt. Ratafia or cake crumbs. Wash the tapioca or sago, put it into a saucepan (a double one is best) with the butter and milk, and cook it thoroughly until quite clear. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, and, when the contents have cooled a little, stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs, and flavouring to taste. Beat up the whites stiffly, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle mould (see p. 425) that has been greased and coated all over the inside with fine ratafia or slightly browned cake crumbs. Steam the souffle very slowly until well risen and firm to the touch. Serve with jam, apricot, chocolate, or any other sauce preferred. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1927. Vanilla SoufflS (SoufflO a la Vanllle) 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. castor sugar. 1 gill milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. A pinch of salt. Vanilla flavouring. Make this souffle according to directions given for a steamed souffle on p. 425, flavouring the Vanilla Souffle mixture with vanilla. Serve with jam, custard, German, or any other suitable sauce. Time to steam, £ to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to Id. 1928. Violet SoufflG (Soufflfi aux Violettes) 1 table-sp. cream. \ oz. crystallised violets. 1| oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill milk. & oz.potato flour. 3 eggs. Put the milk, butter, and potato flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the sugar, cream, yolks of eggs, and violets crushed to small pieces, and mix all well together. Two or three drops of essence of violets may also be added if a stronger flavour is wished. Whip the whites stiffly and stir them in lightly at the last. Bake the mixture in small greased souffle cases, and bake in a moderate oven. Just before removing the souffles from the oven sprinkle them