355 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES A little water or fruit juice is usually added unless the fruit is of a very juicy nature. Bottled and Tinned Fruits will be found very useful for making tarts when fresh fruit is un- obtainable, or too expensive. If preserved in a syrup extra sugar may not then be necessary, and too much of the liquid must not be used. The question of additional flavouring is very much a matter of taste. A little grated orange or lemon rind may be mixed with advantage with many fruits, whilst a little ground spice or a few cloves is a favourite addition to a tart made of apples. A warning should, however, be given to some cooks against an overdose of cloves—3 or 4 in a medium-sized tart is quite sufficient. The fruit must be packed into a pie dish in layers with sugar, the amount of the latter being regulated according to the acidity of the fruit and individual taste. The last layer should be fruit, as sugar directly below the crust is apt to discolour it. Pile the fruit high in the centre and away from the sides of the dish. Sometimes an egg-cup or small funnel is put in the centre of the pie dish to retain the juice. To Cover the Tart Short crust is perhaps the most suitable kind of pastry to use for a fruit tart, but one of the more flaky kinds may be taken if preferred. The quantity of short crust given in Recipe 1439 will be sufficient to cover a tart for 4 or 5 persons. Roll out the pastry rather thinly and wet round the edges of the pie dish with cold water. Cut a strip of pastry an inch wide, and lay it round the dish. Press it well on, and where there is a join, wet one of the edges with cold water and press the two together. Then wet round again with cold water, and lay on a piece of pastry large enough to cover the top. Ease this on slightly, and press the two edges well together. With a sharp knife cut off the larger pieces of pastry hanging round the dish, then hold up the dish in the left hand, and with the right trim neatly round the edges. When cutting, take sharp quick strokes, cutting always from you, and slanting the knife out- wards from the dish to avoid cutting the pastry too close. Then with the back of the knife mark round the edges of the pastry. Make the marks quite close together, and as neat as possible. Next flute round the edges by drawing the knife quickly upwards and towards vou, and being careful to make the flutes an equal distance apart. It is not usual to put any further decoration on a fruit tart. Brush the pie over with beaten white of egg or a little cold water, and dredge well with sugar. This is to glaze it, and should be done just before the pie is put in the oven. Then with a skewer make four small holes at the sides of the pie, to allow the steam to escape while cooking. To Bake and Serve the Tart For a tart covered with short crust a moder- ate oven is best; but if the pastry is of a flaky nature the oven should be hot to begin with until the pastry is well risen, and then cooled down to a moder te temperature to allow' the fruit to cook more slowly. The fruit may be tested by running a skewer into one of the holes in the tart and feeling if it is soft. If the tart shows signs of becoming too brown before the fruit is sufficiently cooked, cover it with a piece of kitchen paper slightly sprinkled with water. The time to bake will depend upon the kind of fruit used and also upon the thickness of the crust. About one hour is usually sufficient for a medium- sized tart. When ready, lift it out of the oven and wipe the dish with a damp cloth. Sprinkle the tart with castor sugar, and serve either hot or cold. A jug of cream or custard served along with the tart is always an improvement. The following are a few examples of fruit tarts, while others, made with a different variety of fruit, should not present any difficulty. 1519. Apple Pie or Tart (Tarte aux Pommes) 5 or 6 apples. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 table-sps. moist sugar. Short crust. £ tea-cupful water. Wipe and peel the apples, cut them in quarters and remove the cores. Then slice them thinly and pack them into a pie dish in alternate layers with a little sugar and grated lemon rind. Pile the fruit high in the centre of the dish, shaping it like a dome, and let the last layer be apples. Pour in the water and cover with short crust or any other suitable pastry, and as directed above. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1520, 6 bananas. 3 oranges. 3 table-sps. moist sugar. Banana and Orange Tart 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. Pastry. Peel the bananas and cut them in slices with a silver knife in order to preserve the colour. Peel the oranges and remove as much of the white pith as possible. Then cut them in slices and take out the stones. Also cut the slices in halves if they seem rather large. Arrange the two kinds of fruit in layers in a pie dish, sprinkling them with the nuts and sugar. Then cover with pastry and bake as directed above. Note.—This makes a delicious and somewhat uncommon kind of tart; the acid of the oranges supplies what is wanting in the bananas. The nuts may be omitted. Time to bake, f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 3d. 1521. Banana and Rhubarb Tart This is another very nice combination of fruit. The bananas should be cut in slices and the rhubarb in short lengths. They should be packed tightly in the pie dish and piled high in the centre, as the rhubarb will fall considerably in the baking. Sugar should be added to taste and enough cold water to moisten the fruit. If liked, a little ground ginger may be mixed with the water. Cover and bake the tart as directed above. 1522. Blackberry and Apple Tart 1 lb. blackberries. 2 table-sps. water. | lb. apples. Pastry. 3 table-sps. moist sugar. Blackberries, to be good, must be freshly gathered. Pick them carefully and wash them if