COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 346 most careful to remove all bones and any skin. Scald the oysters in their own liquor and strain them, reserving the liquor. Now make a sauce with the butter, flour, milk, and oyster liquor, season it with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and cook it well. Add to it the oysters, which have been broken in three or four pieces with a fork. Take a pie dish that will just hold the fish and sauce, &c. Put into it first some of the fish, then a little sauce, and then some bread-crumbs, and repeat these layers until the dish is full. The contents of the dish should, if possible, be piled rather high in the centre, and the last layer should be bread-crumbs. Allow this to become quite cold, then cover with a thin covering of rough-puff pastry as directed on p. 337, and bake in a good oven until the pastry is nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Uncooked fish may be used in the same way, but the pie will require a longer time to cook. Time to bake, about £ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1481. Fish Tart (Flan de Poisson) | lb. cooked fish. I 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley 1 cupful fish sauce. | Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. i Raised pie-crust. First make the pastry as directed in Recipe 1445, and roll it out rather thin. Take a tart ring 6 or 7 inches in diameter, grease it and place it on a greased baking tin. Now line it with the pastry, making it as smooth as possible inside. Prick the pastry well at the foot, trim round the edges with a pair of scissors, leaving about £ inch of pastry above the edge of the tin and all the way round. Next line the tin with kitchen paper and fill it with rice or haricot beans to prevent the pastry rising during the baking. Cook in a good oven. To Make the Mixture.—Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and heat it in some good fish sauce. Chop the hard-boiled eggs, reserving one of the yolks for decoration. Add them to the fish, with the chopped parsley, and season to taste. To Finish.—When the pastry is cooked, remove the paper, &c., and slip off the ring. Return the pastry case to the oven for a few minutes to dry the inside and outer edge. Then fill up with the fish mixture, and decorate with the yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and a little chopped parsley. Time to bake, about | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1482. Russian Fish Pie (PatS de Poisson h la Russe) | lb. white fish. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 hard-boiled egg. White pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. white sauce. A little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. A pinch of cayenne. Rough-puff pastry. The fish for this pie may either be cooked or uncooked according to the kind used. Cod, halibut, or turbot would require to be cooked first, but such fish as haddock, sole, or whiting may be used raw. Break or cut the fish into small neat pieces and put them on a plate. Season with pepper, salt, cayenne, grated lemon rind, and lemon juice. Add the white sauce and hard-boiled egg cut in small pieces, and mix all carefully together. Make the proportion of pastry with £ lb. of flour (see Recipe 1443), and roll it out square and about £ of an inch in thickness. Trim the edges with a sharp knife, reserving the scraps for decorating the pie. Put the fish mixture in the centre of the square, v/et the corners of the pastry with cold water or beaten egg and fold them upwards, making them meet and overlap slightly in the centre like a handkerchief sachet. Press the joins well together and brush the pie over with beaten egg. Decorate the top with some leaves cut out of the scraps of pastry that were trimmed off. Brush over the leaves also with beaten egg and lift the pie very carefully on to a greased baking tin. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and of a brown colour. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Notes.—Cooked salmon may be used for this pie. Sometimes a little cooked rice is mixed with the fish. A few oysters or picked shrimps may be added. Time to bake, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 to 6 persons. 1483. Maltese Pie \ pt. curd. 4 lb. tomatoes. 3 onions. 1 table-sp. gravy. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Short crust or rough- puff pastry. Heat the butter or dripping in a frying pan and put in the onions peeled and chopped. Cook them a few minutes and add the tomatoes, which have been wiped and cut in small pieces. Cook both together 5 or 10 minutes longer, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt. Then add the gravy and curd, bring almost to boiling point, and then pour the mixture on to a plate to cool. Rojl out some unsweetened short crust or plain rough-puff pastry rather thinly, and cut out two rounds the size of a dinner plate. Greaseand line a plate with oneof these rounds, prick it at the foot and put in the mixture. Wet the edges of the pastry with cold water, and put the other round of pastry on the top. _ Press the two together and mark round the rim with the back of a knife. Flute round the edges, make a 6mall hole in the top of the pie, and brush it over with a little beaten egg. Then bake in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked and well browned. Serve hot. Note.—The curd may either be bought ready, or made according to directions in Recipe 1577. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 10d. to Is.