HORS-D’CEUVRE AttD SAVOURIES 503 2316. Anchovies on Toast, 2 (Anchois sur Croutes) \ tea-sp. chopped shallot Pepper. Lemon juice. 1 table-sp. cream. Hot buttered toast. 3 or 4 anchovies. 1 dessert-sp. butter (melted). 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley \For this savoury any broken pieces of anchovy may be used. Wash and dry the anchovies, re- move all skin and bone, and cut them in small pieces. Heat the butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot, and cook it a few minutes without browning. Then add theanchovy, parsley, and seasoning, and moisten with the cream or the yolk of an egg. Make all thoroughly hot and serve on small rounds of hot buttered toast, and sprinkle with a little coralline pepper or decorate with parsley. Note.—A few chopped capers or a piece of chopped gherkin may be added to the mixture if wished. 2317. Anchovy Twists Filleted anchovies. I Grated Parmesan. Short crust. | Coralline pepper. Take some scraps of short crust, work into them some grated Parmesan, and roll out very thinly. Then cut some strips or straws the length of an anchovy and about inch wide. Wash and wipe the required number of anchovy fillets, and lay each one on a strip of pastry. Then twist them round each other, and pinch them to- gether at the ends. Lay these on a greased baking- tin, sprinkle with a little coralline pepper, and bake in a good oven until lightly browned. Serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—Anchovy or cheese pastry may be used instead of short crust. 2318. Cassolettes de Bananes 2 small bananas. \ oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. biscuit crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chutney. Cayenne and salt. \ tea-sp. curry powder. | oz. butter. 1 table-sp. white wine. 5 or 6 small butter cases. 1 cooked kipper or bloater. ltea-sp. chopped parsley | tea-sp. anchovy essence. pan with the chopped parsley, anchovy essence, and a good pinch of pepper. Moisten with a little white sauce or cream, and make all thoroughly hot over the fire. Pile the mixture on finger- shaped pieces of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with a little grated cheese, and brown in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Note.—The cheese may be omitted, and a little whipped and seasoned white of egg put over the bloater mixture. The yolk of egg may be added to the mixture. Or, if the bloater contains a roe, this may be cut in pieces, warmed in the oven, and used to garnish the toast. 2321. Kromeskies of Bloater (Kromeskies a la Yarmouth) 2 table-sps. cooked bloater. 1 table-sp. butter. 1 table-sp. white sauce. Seasoning. Wafer paper. Frying batter. Take the remains of cooked bloater, and break it into small flakes free from skin and bone. Then pound well in a mortar with the butter, and rub the mixture through a sieve. Moisten with a little white sauce or any good fish sauce, and season to taste. Wrap up small portions of the mixture in wafer paper, just moistening the paper slightly to make it bendable. Then dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain and serve piled up on a dish paper ; garnish with fried parsley. Note.—Kippered or any other smoked fish may be used in the same way. 2322. Bloater Souffles (Petits Souffles de Hareng Fum6) table-sps. cooked bloater. table-sps. cooked potato. 1 table-sp. melted butter 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. 1 egg. Seasoning. Make very small butter cases as directed in Recipe 2252, or small croustades of pastry may be used. Peel the bananas and cut them in dice, heat the butter in a small saucepan, and put in the prepared banana with the chutney, curry powder, and seasoning. Cook 2 or 3 minutes over the fire, then add the biscuit crumbs and white wine, and cook 2 or 3 minutes longer. Fill up the little cases with this mixture, place them in the oven to heat through, and serve hot, garnished with parsley or watercress. 2319. Croutes de Bananes Prepare the same mixture as in last recipe, and serve it on small croutes of fried bread or toast. Sprinkle some chopped nuts over them, and make thoroughly hot in the oven. 2320. Bloater or Kipper Toast (Croutes a la Yarmouth) Chop the bloater very finely or pound it and rub it through a sieve. Put it into a saucepan with the potato (sieved), the butter, and seasoning to taste, and add a little milk to moisten. Make the mixture thoroughly hot over the fire, then draw the saucepan to one side and stir in the yolk of egg. Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and stir it in very lightly at the last. Half fill small greased souffle dishes with the mixture, and bake them in a moderate oven until well risen and brown. Serve as quickly as possible. 2323. Savoury Brain Croutes (Croutes de Corvelles) 2 table-sps. cooked;brains 1 table-sp. white sauce or cream. 1 yolk of egg, Cayenne and salt. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. Hot buttered toast. Chopped parsley. 1 table-sp. cream or white sauce. Seasoning. Hot buttered toast. Grated cheese. Remove all the flesh from a cooked kipper or bloater and chop it very finely. Put it into a sauce- Chop the brains and heat them in a saucepan with the white sauce or cream, but be careful not to make the mixture too moist. Add the grated cheese and chopped capers, and season to taste with cayenne and salt. Lastly, stir in the yolk of egg, pile the mixture on five or six small rounds of hot buttered toast and sprinkle with more cheese. Place them in a hot oven or under