115 FISH 341. Fish Custard Puddings 6 oz. cooked fish. | pt. milk. 4 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 2 whites of eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A little coralline pepper. Pepper and salt. Grease very carefully about six dariole moulds or tiny basins, and decorate each one at the foot Dariole Moulds with a little finely-chopped parsley or coralline pepper. Free the fish from all skin and bone, and then weigh it. Chop it rather finely, and about half-fill the moulds. Make a custard with the eggs and milk. Beat up the eggs, yolks and whites, in a basin, and add the milk. Season with white pepper, salt, and anchovy essence. Strain and pour over the fish. Place the moulds in a tin with boiling water to reach half-way up the sides, cover with greased paper, and poach in the oven or on the top of the stove until the custards are set. Turn out and serve hot. Note.—These are excellent made with cold salmon. Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 342. Fish Cutlets \ lb. cooked fish. 1 gill milk or fish stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Salt and pepper. Egg and bread-crumbs. Free the fish carefully from all skin and bone, then weigh and chop it finely with a knife. Do not put it through a mincing machine as this is apt to make it heavy. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth, then pour in the milk or fish stock, and stir until the mixture boils and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Remove the pan from the fire, add the fish, parsley, yolk of egg and seasonings, and mix well together. Turn the mix- ture out on to a plate, smooth over with a knife, and set aside in a cool place until cold and firm. Then divide the mixture into eight equal-sized portions, and place these on a slightly floured board. Form them into cutlets, the shape of a flattened pear, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the board and knife, and taking par- ticular care to have the surface smooth and free from cracks. Egg and bread-crumb them and fry to a nice brown colour in boiling fat. Drain well on kitchen paper, and stick a small piece of parsley stalk or fine macaroni in the narrow end of each to imitate the bone of the cutlet. Dish in a circle, one leaning against the other, on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and cut lemon. Notes.—Almost any kind of fish, as long as it is not too oily, may be used to make these cutlets, or two different kinds of fish, such as salmon and white fish or smoked and fresh fish together. A chopped hard-boiled egg may be added if wished. Made according to the above directions, the cutlets will be quite soft and creamy in the centre, as directly they are put into the boiling fat the inside part becomes soft again while the outside is made crisp and brown. Probable cost, l£d. each. Sufficient for 8 cutlets. 343. Devilled Fish (Poisson a la Diable) 6 oz. cooked fish. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. | tea-sp. curry powder. \ tea-sp. dry mustard. Cayenne pepper. A little butter. Browned bread-crumbs. A firm fish such as John Dory, halibut, cod or hake, &c., is best for this. Cut it into small neat pieces, and brush these over with a little melted butter. Chop the chutney finely and mix it on a plate with the other seasonings, pounding all to- gether with a knife. Spread a little of this hot mixture on each piece of fish, then place them on a baking tin, sprinkle them with fine bread-crumbs, and lay some small pieces of butter on the top. Place in the oven for a few minutes until thoroughly hot, and serve at once on a very hot dish. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 344. Fricassee of Fish (Fricassee de Poisson) l lb. fish, cooked uncooked. \ pt. fish stock. 1 gill milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 hard-boiled egg. A sq ueeze of lemon juice. White pepper and salt. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Any white fish may be used for this ; it must be cut in small pieces or broken in flakes and weighed free from skin and bone. If there are any trimmings they may be used for making the stock (see p. 78). Make a sauce with the butter, flour, fish stock and milk, and season it with pepper and salt. Put in Fricassee of Fish the fish and let it heat through, or if it is raw fish, allow it to simmer a few minutes until cooked. Add a squeeze of lemon juice and, if possible, a little cream. Serve garnished with the hard-boiled egg cut in pieces and a few thin slices of lemon. Or, fricassee may also be served inside a border of potato, garnished with a little finely chopped parsley. Time, 15 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.