322 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1383. Poached Eggs a la Maitre d’Hotel (CEufs a la Maitre d’Hotel) 6 eggs. I 6 pieces of hob buttered Maitre d’hotel butter. | toast. Arrange the eggs, nicely poached, on the top of the pieces of toast. Put a pat of maitre d’hotel butter about the size of a shilling on the top of each egg, and send them to table while the butter is just melting. (For Maitre d’H6tel Butter, see Recipe 770.) Probable cost, 10d. 1364. Poached Eggs with 4 eggs. 4 rounds hot buttered toast. | lb. cooked chicken or veal. 2 oz. cooked ham or Mince ((Eufs a la Reine) tongue. 2 table-sps. sauce OB gravy. Seasoning. Chopped parsley. Mince the meat and ham or tongue very finely, and heat it in a small saucepan with the sauce to moisten it. Season to taste, and spread this neatly on the rounds of hot buttered toast. Place a poached egg on the top of each, and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. Serve at once and very hot. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 1365. Poached Eggs with Mushrooms 4 eggs. | toast. 4 rounds hot buttered | 4 mushrooms. Choose mushrooms of a good size, wash, peel them, and remove the stalks. Put them on a greased tin or fireproof dish, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and put a greased paper on the top. Then cook them in a moderate oven about 10 minutes. Meanwhile poach the eggs, and when ready place each one on a round of hot buttered toast and place a mushroom on the top. Note.—Another way to make this dish is to prepare a ragout of mushroom as directed in Recipe 516, to serve a little of this on each round of toast, and to place a poached egg on the top. Probable cost, lOd. with pepper and salt, and mix well, adding a little milk if necessary to bind all together. Turn this potato paste on to a slightly floured board, and divide it into five or six pieces, according to the number of eggs. Shape each piece into a round flat cake, slightly hollow in the centre, brush over with beaten egg, and brown them on a tin in the oven. Meanwhile poach the eggs, and trim them neatly. Arrange the potato cakes on a hot dish, place a poached egg on the top of each, pour the gravy over, and return to the oven for a few minutes. Sprinkle the parsley over before serving. Notes.—Soft-boiled (oeufs mollets) may be used instead of poached eggs, and a little grated cheese may be sprinkled over the surface. Probable cost, Is. 1368. Poached Eggs with Rice, 1 (CEufs Poch6s au Riz) 3 or 4 eggs. I lb. rice. 1 onion. £ pt. stock. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Tomato sauce. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the onion finely chopped, and cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and pour off the water. Then pour in the stock, and stew slowly until the rice is quite soft and tender and the stock all absorbed. Add the butter, and season to taste. Arrange the rice neatly in a long-shaped bed on a hot dish, poach the number of eggs required, and place them on the top. Pour a little tomato sauce round, and serve very hot. Note.—Instead of the sauce a little tomato pur6e may be added to the rice, and the dish decorated with finely chopped parsley. Probable cost, lOd. 1369. Poached Eggs with Rice, 2 (CEufs Pochls au Riz) 4 or 5 eggs. 1 cupful rice. | pt. white sauce. Seasoning. 1 dessert - sp. anchov y essence. 2 or 3 filleted anchovies. Chopped parsley. 1366. Poached Eggs with Potatoes, 1 Poch6s k la Duchesse) 2 table-sp. (CEufs 4 eggs. 4 or 5 cooked potatoes Seasoning. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. melted butter Poach the eggs, place them on a hot dish, and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Have ready 4 or 5 well-cooked and mealy potatoes, and rub these through a vrire sieve, or put them through a vegetable presser on the top of the eggs. Sprinkle the grated cheese and the melted butter over the top, and brown quickly in a hot oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Probable cost, 7d. 1367. Poached Eggs with Potatoes, 2 Poch6s k la Duchesse) Seasoning. (CEufs 5 or 6 eggs. 1 lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. good 2 or 3 table-sps. gravy, ltea-sp. chopped parsley Sieve the potatoes, and reheat them in a saucepan with the butter and yolk of egg. Season to taste Boil the rice as for curry (see Recipe 1586), and when well dried make it into a mound on a dish which can be sent to table, and keep it warm. Prepare \ pint of good white sauce, flavour it well with anchovy essence, pepper, and salt, and make it very hot. Poach the eggs, arrange them neatly on the top of the rice, and pour the sauce over. Decorate with small pieces of filleted anchovy and a little finely chopped parsley. Probable cost. Is. 1370. Poached Eggs with Shrimps (CEufs Poeh6s aux Crevettes) 6 eggs. 6 rounds of hot buttered toast. 1 cupful white sauce. Fresh or potted shrimps. Pepper and salt. Heat the sauce in a small saucepan, and add enough potted or shelled fresh shrimps to thicken the sauce well. Poach the eggs, and lay them on six rounds or squares of hot buttered toast. Season the sauce with pepper and salt, and pour it oveD the eggs. Serve very hot. Probable cost, Is. 2d.