SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 223 tongue into cold water. Bring it slowly to the boil and skim well. Then add a bunch of herbs, and, if liked, a few pieces of vegetable for flavour- ing. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and allow the tongue to simmer very slowly until tender. The time required will depend upon the size of the tongue and also upon whether it has been smoked or not. A small unsmoked tongue will take from 2 to 2\ hours and a large one an hour or so longer. A small smoked tongue will require at least 3 hours and a large one from 4 to 5 hours. The cooking must be carried on very slowly, and the water skimmed whenever necessary. When the tongue is tender, take it up, plunge it into cold water, so that the skin will come away more easily, and skin it carefully. Ox Tongue, To Serve Hot If the tongue is to be eaten hot, cover it with greased paper after skinning and reheat it in the oven for a few minutes. Then brush it over with liquid glaze, or sprinkle it with browned bread- crumbs. Place it on a hot dish and garnish with thin slices of lemon and sprigs of parsley; or, if preferred, with small bunches of any cooked vege- table that is in season. A good sauce may be poured round it or served separately. Ox Tongue, To Serve Cold If the tongue is to be eaten cold, after skimming truss it into shape on a board by fastening it down at root and tip with fine skewers. When cold, take it up, trim some of the fat from the root and glaze it (see p. 210). Fix a paper frill round the Ox Tongue root and garnish with sprigs of fresh green parsley. Or, the tongue may be made more decorative by piping it with some fresh butter put through a forcing bag. Aspio jelly may be used as a garnish. 882. Ox Tongue in Jelly (Langue de Bcsuf a la Gel6e) Take a cooked ox tongue and while still hot skin and trim it carefully. Roll it into a round shape and pack it tightly into a round cake tin or special mould. Then fill up with some melted meat jelly and allow the whole to set. When quite cold, turn out in a nice round shape and garnish with parsley or watercress. 883. Braised Ox Tongue (Langue de Bceuf Braisee) 1 fresh ox tongue. Flavouring vegetables. 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. A little flour. A small bunch of herbs. Juice of 1 lemon. Wash the tongue thoroughly, first in warm and then in cold water, until all the slimy substanco is removed from it. Then put it into a saucepan with hot water to cover it and a little salt, and let it simmer slowly for two hours, skimming when necessary. Now lift the tongue out of the water, skin it, trim it neatly and skewer it into a round shape, fastening the tip round the thick part. Then melt the dripping or fat in a stewpan large enough to hold the tongue. Put into it about 2 cupfuls of flavouring vegetables (carrot, turnip, onion, and celery) cut in small pieces, fry them until they become lightly brown, and lift them out on a plate. Coat the tongue with flour on all sides, put it into the fat left in the pan, and brown it, also, turning it over and over. Now return the vegetables, pour round about 2 pints of the liquid in which the tongue was boiled, add a bunch of herbs, and put the lid on the pan. Cook the tongue in the oven, if possible, if not, on the side of the stove. When it has cooked about 1J hours turn it over, strain the lemon juice on the top and then cook from £ to f hour longer, and by this time it ought to be tender. Lift it out, put it on a hot dish and keep it warm. Strain the gravy and boil it quickly until there is just sufficient to pour round and over the tongue. A little thickening may be added if wished. A sharp sauce such as tartare, horse-radish, piquante, or tomato may be served separately, and a puree of vegetables would be a good accompaniment. 884. Tripe, How to Prepare Tripe, which is the inner lining of the stomach of the ox or cow, is one of the most easily digested of animal foods. If carefully prepared it is both light and nourishing, and for this reason is fre- quently ordered to people with weak digestion. There are different kinds of tripe, such as the blanket, honeycomb, reed, book, and monk’s hood, according to the part of the animal from which it is taken. The blanket and honeycomb are the kinds usually preferred. ■When bought in England tripe is generally pre- pared by the butcher, and has had several hours’ cooking before it is offered for sale. When this is the case the following will be sufficient preparation. Wash it well, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring to the boil and strain. Then cover the tripe again with cold water or half milk and half water, and allow it to simmer slowly from 2 to 3 hours. By this time it should be sufficiently tender to be made up in various ways (see below). When ready, it ought to be soft enough to pull easily in pieces with the fingers. If not to be used at once, cover it with the liquid in which it wa3 cooked and set it aside in a cool place. In Scotland, however, tripe is bought in a much rougher condition, and it requires very careful washing and many hours’ cooking before it is ready for use. The following is the method of treating it when bought in this condition. Buy the tripe the day before it is to be used. First wash it well in tepid water, scrape it with a knife if necessary, and rinse it thoroughly. Then put it into a sauce- Ean with cold water to cover it, bring it to the oil, and pour this water away. Repeat this process of washing and blanching until the tripe has lost its unpleasant smell. When quite clean, return it to the saucepan with fresh cold water.