COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 292 tance of basting, as the flesh of a rabbit is inclined 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. the two legs at the other side. Then bring it back nearly at the same place and tie the two ends in a bow knot. Put the rabbit into a saucepan with hot water to cover it, add a little salt and bring to the boil. Skim well and add the onions, peeled, scalded, and cut in halves or quarters. Let all simmer slowly until the rabbit and onions are tender. When ready, lift out the rabbit and keep it warm. Strain the liquid from the onions and chop them on a board. Then make a sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix the two together smoothly. Pour in 2 cupfuls of the liquid and stir until boiling. Add the onions, seasonings, and milk, and cook all together a few minutes. Pour the sauce over the rabbit, it should be thick enough to mask it, and garnish with the liver cut in pieces and small rolls of bacon (see Recipe 1646). Notes.—The milk may be omitted and the sauce made entirely with the liquid in which the rabbit was cooked. Parsley sauce may be made instead of onion sauce. If the strong flavour of the rabbit is objected to, blanch it first before putting it on to boil. A piece of pickled pork is sometimes cooked along with the rabbit, and helps to make a nice dish. If preferred, the rabbit may be cut in joints instead of being left whole. Time to boil, 1 to 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 6d. to Is. lOd. 1190. Stuffed and Roast Rabbit (Lapin Roti) 1 rabbit. I Pat bacon. Veal forcemeat. Butter or dripping. A little flour. | Gravy. Bread sauce. Wash and clean the rabbit as directed above. Prepare some veal forcemeat (Recipe 1281), and add to it the fiver, heart, and kidney of the rabbit, parboiled and chopped. Now dry the rabbit, season it with the forcemeat and sew it up. Rub it all over with flour and truss it into shape in the following manner. To Truss.—Bend the liind-legs forwards, cutting the sinew at the thigh to enable them to lie closely along the body, and bend the fore-legs backwards in the same way. Fix them in position with two skewers or with a trussing needle and string. Now rake the head and support it in a natural position, by passing a skewer through the mouth and fixing it down on the back between the shoulders. To Roast.—Tie a few slices of fat bacon over the back of the rabbit, cover it with greased paper, and it is ready for roasting. This must be done according to general directions given on p. 207, and too great stress cannot be laid on the impor- to be very dry. A short time before taking it from the oven, remove the paper and slices of bacon to allow the back of the rabbit to brown. To Serve.—When ready, lift it on to a hot dish, and draw out the skewers and the thread used in sewing it up. Serve with a little clear or thickened gravy (see p. 208) poured round, and the remainder in a sauce boat. Garnish with rolls of bacon and if liked a few forcemeat balls made from some of the forcemeat. Bread sauce, and red- currant or any other acid jelly, may be served separately. Time to roast, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 10d. 1191. Stewed Rabbit with Brown Sauce 1 rabbit. 2 or 3 oz. bacon. 1 oz. flour. 2 onions. 1 pt. stock. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Clean and wash the rabbit as directed on p. 291. Drain and dry it and cut it in neat joints. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon and cut it in small pieces. Put it into a stewpan, cook it over the fire until the fat is transparent, then remove it to a plate. Coat the joints of rabbit with the flour and fry them in the fat left by the bacon until they are brown on all sides, adding a little more fat if necessary. Add also the onions cut in thin slices and brown them also. When ready, return the bacon, pour in the stock and add seasoning to taste. Put the fid on the pan, and stew very slowly until the rabbit is quite tender. Remove any grease before serving and dish very neatly on a hot dish. A little finely chopped parsley may be sprinkled over, or some pieces of baked tomato or small forcemeat balls would make a suitable garnish. Note.—A few mushrooms or a little tomato puree may be added to the sauce to give flavour. Time to stew, H to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10c£. 1192. Stewed Rabbit with Pork 1 rabbit, § lb. salt pork. Warm water. 2 or 3 onions. A small bunch of herbs. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. Choose a small rabbit, wash it carefully and let it fie in salt and water for J hour. Then rinse it and cut it in small neat joints. Wipe the pork and cut it in small pieces also. If it is very salt, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil slowly and pour the water away. Skin the onions and cut them in slices, scalding them first if the strong flavour is objected to. Now put the rabbit, pork, and onions into a stewpan, cover them with warm water and bring to the boil. Skim if necessary and add the bunch of herbs. Put the fid on the pan and simmer all slowly until the rabbit is tender. Then lift out the herbs and add the flour mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Stir until thoroughly mixed, add seasoning to taste and at the last the chopped parsley. Dish up neatly and serve very hot. Time to cook, to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or