SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 211 PART II BEEF 823. Boiled Beef, Unsalted (Bceuf Bouilli) 5 or 6 lbs. brisket. 2 or 3 carrots. 3 or 4 small onions. 3 or 4 small turnips. 1 head celery. 3 leeks. A bunch of herbs 4 cloves. 12 black peppercorns. A blade of mace. Salt. Hot water. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and tie it into a neat shape with tape. Put it into a large saucepan with hot water to cover it, and bring it to the boil. Add a dessert-spoonful of salt and skim carefully. Allow the meat to simmer slowly for 1J hours, removing all scum that rises. Then add the vegetables, prepared and cut in convenient-sized pieces, the bunch of herbs and spices tied in muslin, and continue to cook slowly until the meat is tender. This may be served either hot or cold. To Serve Hot.—Lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the tape, and, if possible, fix it together with a silver skewer. Arrange the vegetables neatly round, and serve some of the liquid separately in a sauce boat. To Serve Gold.—Lift the meat out of the saucepan and remove the bones. Tie it neatly together, and press it between two large dishes, or boards, with a weight on the top, until cold. Reduce some of the liquid in which the meat was cooked, and add to it a small piece of glaze; then unbind the meat and brush it over with this, giving it two or three coat- ings if necessary. (See To Glaze Meat, p. 210.) Serve garnished with fresh parsley or watercress, and a few pieces of red tomato. Note.—When the meat is served cold, the vege- tables may either be served separately as a hot vegetable, or cut in smaller pieces and used for soup. Time to cook, 4 to 5 hours. 824. Salt Beef with Dumplings Choose a nice piece of salt beef from the aitch bone, round, or brisket, &c. Wash it, and if it is likely to be too salt, soak it overnight, or for a few hours, in cold water. Then trim it neatly and bind it firmly with tape to prevent it having a ragged appearance when cooked. Weigh it and put it into a saucepan with cold or tepid water to cover it. If the joint is a large one use cold water, but if small, tepid water will be better. Bring the meat fairly quickly to the boil, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, or reduce the heat, and carefully remove all scum that has risen. Now allow the meat to simmer slowly until it is quite tender, skimming when necessary. The time for cooking will vary from 20 to 30 minutes to the pound, and from 20 to 30 minutes over, according to the size and shape of the meat. It is usual to serve vegetables with this dish, as well as the dumplings. Prepare some nice pieces of carrot, turnip, and parsnip if in season, cutting them in convenient-sized pieces and regulating the quantity according to the size of the joint. Cook these along with the meat, putting them in after the first scum has been removed; or, if the meat is a very large piece, rather later, just allowing sufficient time to cook the vegetables thoroughly without reducing them to a pulpy state. Small suet dumplings (see below) are also a favourite accompaniment to this dish; or a pease pudding, if preferred, may be served separately. To Serve.—Lift the meat on to a hot dish and remove the tape. A silver skewer may be put in to keep it together. Garnish with the vegetables and dumplings placed alternately round the dish. Strain a little of the liquor round, and serve an extra supply in a sauce boat. A dish of green vegetables should be served separately. 825. Dumplings to Serve with Meat 6 oz. flour. 2 oz. suet. I £ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 tea-sp. salt. I A little milk or water. Chop the suet very finely, and mix it lightly with the flour, salt, and baking powder. Bind all to- gether with water or milk, and knead lightly. The dough must be soft without being sticky. Make it up into small balls, using a little dry flour to prevent the dough sticking to the hands. Cook them for 15 to 20 minutes along with the meat with which they are to be served. The water must be kept simmering all the time they are in it, or the dumplings will be heavy. Note.—The dry ingredients should not be moist- ened until it is time to cook the dumplings. 826. Roast Beef (Boeuf Rotl, Rosblf) To Choose the Joint.—The sirloin and the ribs are two of the finest joints for roasting. The round and the aitch bone can also be cooked in this way, but to be successful the meat requires to be well hung and of good quality. The sirloin with a good undercut is the joint par excellence for a large or moderate-sized family. If the cut is a very large one, it is a good plan to cut a piece off the thin end and either stew or cook it in some other way, as if roasted with the rest of the joint, it is apt to become overcooked before the other part is ready. The ribs also make a very good joint, and these are often better if boned and rolled before roasting. This makes a neater and a more economical joint, as the bones with all their goodness can be used for soup. It is perhaps the best joint for a very small family, as one or two ribs can be bought, and when boned and rolled they will make quite a compact little joint. When a large and cheaper joint is wanted, a piece from the round or the aitch bone should be asked for. Very careful basting and cooking will be necessary to make those parts tender and successful. To Prepare the Meat.—Wipe it well with a damp cloth and scrape the skin with a knife. Examine it carefully to see that there are no tainted or dis- coloured parts, and trim it where necessary. Make the joint as tidy-looking as possible, using, if required, wooden skewers to fix it into shape. Then weigh it. To Roast.—Follow the general directions given on p. 207. To Serve.—When the meat is ready, lift it on to a hot dish and remove any skewers or string that may have been holding it together during the cook- ing, and which may be replaced, if liked, with a