191 SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET in small pieces, also the herbs and spices, and fry all for a few minutes. Pour in the sherry and vinegar, and boil until they are reduced to half the quantity. Then stir in the flour, mix until smooth, and add the stock. Stir well until boiling. Season to taste, and simmer gently for one hour, skimming when necessary. Add the anchovy essence, and strain the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer before serving. 738. Sauce Poulette Make in the same wav as Sauce Allemande (Recipe 706), adding a little chopped parsley. 739. Sauce Ravigote (Hot) i pt. bechamel or veloizte sauce. 1 tea-sp. parsley. 1 tea-sp. tarragon. 1 tea-sp. chervil. 1 shallot. 2 table-sps. tarragon vinegar. 2 table-sps. white wine. Chop the shallot finely and put it into a sauce- pan with the wine and vinegar. Allow these to boil until reduced to half the quantity. Add the sauce and the herbs finely chopped, bring to the boil and simmer 5 minutes. Serve with fish, dressed vegetables, cutlets, &c. 740. Sauce Reforme | pt. poivrade sauce. 1 table-sp. red-currant or goosebery jelly. Garnish. Strips of gherkin, truffle, tongue, mush- room, and white of egg- Put the poivrade sauce into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the jelly and Julienne strips (see p. 65) or shreds of the above ingredi- ents. Or, if preferred, the garnish may be used to ornament the dish with which the sauce is used, as in Cutlets it la Reforme. 741. Sauce Rouennaise I pt. good brown sauce. 1 shallot. | oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley | gill red wine. 1 or 2 chicken livers. Seasoning. Chop the shallot and cook it a few minutes in the butter until slightly brown. Then pour in the wine and reduce to half quantity. Next add the brown sauce (Recipe 670) and the parsley, and cook for a few minutes. Clean the chicken livers and rub them through a fine sieve. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of this raw puree to the sauce and heat thoroughly, but without letting the sauce boil again. 742. Sauce Soubise J pt. bechamel sauce. 1 2 table-sps. cream. 3 or 4 onions. | Seasoning. Skin the onions, put them into a saucepan with boiling water and a little salt, and boil quickly for one hour, or until tender. Then drain well, chop them finely, and rub them through a hair sieve. Put this onion puree into a saucepan with the bechamel sauce, and bring to the boil. Season to taste with white pepper, salt, a pinch of cayenne and a pinch of castor sugar. Add the cream, or an extra ounce of butter. The sauce used must be fairly thick to allow for thinning down by the onion puree. 743. Sauce Supreme 2 oz. fresh butter. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. chicken stock. 1 gill cream. Trimmings of white mushrooms. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt half the butter in a small saucepan and mix in the flour thoroughly, being most careful it does not brown. Draw the pan to one side and pour in the stock. Then stir constantly until boiling, add the mushroom trimmings, and simmer from 10 to 15 minutes. Strain or tammy, reheat and add the cream and lemon juice. Remove the saucepan from the fire and work in the remainder of the butter, adding it in small pieces. This sauce should be very white and very delicate in flavour. 744. Sauce Veloute See Recipe 673. 745. Sauce VSnitienne* 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. A little spinach. 1 tea-cupful water. 1 yolk of egg. Salt. 2 shallots. 1 tea-sp. chopped tar- ragon and-chervil. 1 glass white wine. 3 or 4 crushed pepper- corns. Take a handful of picked and washed spinach, scald it for a minute in boiling water, strain, rinse with cold water, and press as dry as possible. Then rub the spinach through a sieve and use the puree to give colour to the sauce. In a small saucepan put the shallots finely chopped with the tarragon and chervil, add the white wine and crushed peppercorns, and reduce over the fire. In another saucepan melt a small piece of the butter, mix in the flour, draw the saucepan to one side and add the water and yolk of egg. Season to taste and stir quickly over the fire until boiling. Then add the rest of the butter in small pieces, and last of all the mixture from the other saucepan, and the pur6e of spinach. 746. Sauce Villeroi (for Coating Meat, &c.) 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. | pt. chicken or veal stock. 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. \ gill cream. A pinch of nutmeg. Put the butter into a saucepan and let it melt. Add the flour and cook for a minute or two without letting it brown. Dilute with the stock and stir constantly until the sauce is very thick and well cooked. Season to taste and draw the saucepan to the side of the fire. Add the yolks of eggs beaten with the cream, but do not boil again. Use as directed. Note.—A little chopped parsley, mushroom, or truffle may be added if wished. 747. Sauce au Via Blanc See under Fish (Recipe 380).