63 STOCKS AND SOUPS to a pulp. Then strain and thicken with the corn- flour mixed to a smooth paste with a little cold water. Add some Rhine wineif desired and simmer a few minutes to thoroughly cook the cornflour. Then pour the soup over the two yolks of eggs which have been well creamed in the soup tureen. Serve with rusks or finger biscuits. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Probable cost, 9d. without wine. Quantity, 3 pints. 116. Strawberry Soup 2 lbs. strawberries. Lemon juice. | lb. sugar. White wine. 1 qt. cold water. Pick the strawberries carefully and wash them if necessary. Take about \ lb. of the smaller ones, sprinkle them with sugar and set them aside in a cool place. Now mash the remainder of the straw- berries with a silver fork or spoon and add to them the strained juice of a lemon. Dissolve the sugar in the cold water, pour it over the mashed fruit, stand for J hour, and then strain through a sieve. Put the whole strawberries into a soup tureen, pour the soup over them, and add white wine to taste. Serve icy cold, and hand rusks, macaroons, or finger biscuits separately. Note.—Raspberry soup can be made in the same way. Quantity, 2| pints. PART m MORE EXPENSIVE SOUPS (1) CLEAR SOUP AND BROWN SOUPS Clear Soup or Consomme Consomme is the favourite soup for commencing a dinner of several courses. It is light and tasty and does not spoil the appetite for what is to follow. It is one of the most expensive soups to make, as a good stock made from fresh meat must form the foundation of it. Although it is possible to make consomme from second stock, or even from good stock from a stock pot, it is liable to taste gelatinous and to be wanting in that special meaty flavour so conspicuous in the genuine article, which ought to be the pure infusion of meat. Absolute cleanliness is also necessary to the making of clear soup, so that nothing may destroy its delicate flavour. The following are general directions for making 1 quart clear soup : 117. Clear Soup (Consomme) 1 qt. good brown stock 1 white and shell of egg. (p. 37). 1 lump of sugar. 6 oz. lean juicy beef. Carefully remove all fat from the top of the stock (see p. 40) and put it into a clean fined sauce- pan. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and shred it down finely as for beef-tea, removing all fat and skin. (If a larger quantity is being used, it may be put through the mincing machine.) Add this to the stock with the white of egg and the shell well washed. Whisk these over the fire with a wire whisk until the soup just comes to boiling- point. Then remove the whisk and let it boil well up. Draw the pan to the side of the fire where the soup will keep warm, but not simmer, and cover it over with a plate or saucepan lid. Let it stand from 10 to 15 minutes. Tie a clean cloth on to the four legs of a chair turned upside down, letting it fall slightly in the middle so as to form a bag. A fine but not too close textured cloth should be used. A well-worn piece of damask or thin huckaback towelling will serve the purpose excellently, or a special make of cheese-cloth is often used. This is infinitely better than the flannel bag formerly so much in favour, but which was kept clean with difficulty, and was always inclined to retain the flavour of the meat. Instead of using a chair, a special soup-stand may be bought for the purpose. and in households where clear soup is frequently served this would certainly be found a convenience. When all is ready, pour some boiling water through the cloth into a basin, to thoroughly heat the cloth. Put a clean dry basin underneath, and pour the soup gently through. The soup will not be clear the first time, as it gets shaken with the straining, so change the basin and pour the soup through again, repeating this process until the soup runs through quite clear. In reheating add a lump of sugar, which makes the soup sparkle. Once having mastered the making of a clear soup, little difficulty should be found in producing many different kinds, as they simply take their