104 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 280. Perch a la Maitre d’Hotel (Perche a la Maitre d’Hotel) 1 perch. Lemon juice. A little butter. I pt. maitre d’htedl Pepper and salt. sauce. Skin and fillet the fish, and wipe the pieces dry in a clean cloth. Then cut the fillets in pieces about 2 inches in length, and place them in a well-greased baking dish. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until done. When ready, drain the pieces of fish for a minute on kitchen paper and then arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Have ready \ pint maitre d’hotel sauce (see Recipe 700), pour any butter left in the baking dish into it, make thoroughly hot and pour over the fish. Serve with small croutons of fried bread. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 281, Perch, To Stew with Wine (Perche au Vin Blanc) 3 or 4 perch. White or fish stock. White wine. 2 bay-leaves. A few parsley stalks. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1J oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Salt, pepper. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scrape well to remove the scales, and cut off the fins. If the scales are very difficult to remove, plunge the fish in boiling water for a minute, and then scrape them. When ready, put the fish into a stewpan with equal quantities of stock and white wine to cover them. Add the bay-leaves, cloves, parsley stalks, and onion, thinly sliced. Season with pepper and salt, put the lid on the pan, and stew slowly until the fish are tender, about 20 minutes. Then lift them carefully on to a hot dish, and strain the liquid into a basin. Put the butter into the stew- pan, and let it melt over the fire. Add the flour and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour in the strained liquor, add the anchovy essence, and stir over the fire until boiling. The sauce must be of a consistency to coat the fish. If too thin, add a little more flour, broken with stock or water; if too thick, add more stock or wine. Pour this over the fish, and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, about \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Pike (Broehet) This fish also goes under the name of luce, jack, ged, pickerel and freshwater shark. The pike is Pike a river fish of a very voracious type. It has a long- shaped body with a pointed head and strong teeth. It sometimes grows to an immense size, and has been known to attain a great age. The flesh is dry but wholesome, and if served with a good sauce will make a very tasty dish. The roe should always be removed from this fish as it is not wholesome. 282. Pike, To Boil (Broehet Bouilli) Cook in the same way as Boiled Mackerel (Recipe 228) and serve hot with hollandaise, horse-radish, or mustard sauce, or cold with mayonnaise or tartare sauce. 283. Pike, To Grill (Broehet GrillA) Prepare and cook in the same way as Grilled Mackerel (Recipe 229), and serve with tartare sauce. 284. Pike a la Meuniere (Broehet a la Meuniere) Prepare and cook in the same way as Mackerel k la Meuniere (Recipe 234). 285. Pike, To Stew with Wine (Broehet au Vin Blanc) Prepare and cook in the same way as Stewed Perch. 286. Pike, Stuffed and Baked (Broehet Farei au Four) 1 small pike. A little flour. 1 egg. Bread-crumbs. 2 ozs. butter or dripping. Stuffing (Recipe 1266). Wash and clean the fish, cutting ofi the head and fins. If the scales are difficult to remove, dip the fish in boiling water for a minute or so before scraping it. Then prepare the stuffing, and sew it into the opening at the side. Score the skin across diagonally on both sides, and then dip the fish in flour. Melt the butter or dripping in a baking tin, and place the fish on it. Brush over with a little beaten egg, and sprinkle with bread- crumbs. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven from 30 to 40 minutes, basting fre- quently. Pike is a very dry fish, therefore the basting is very important. When ready, lift it on to a hot dish and pour tomato, brown, anchovy, or any other suitable sauce round. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Tench (Tanche) A freshwater fish which is found in ponds and pools and slow-running rivers. Like the carp it A. Tench B. Trout is fond of burying itself in the mud, and this often gives it a disagreeable muddy taste. The best