COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 598 may be added if wished. When using the syrup, stand the saucepan containing it in a larger pan containing hot water. 2857. Crystallising Syrup 1 lb. sugar. £ pt. water. Dissolve the sugar in the water, and boil to 225° F., according to directions given above for sugar boiling. Carefully remove all scum that rises, and when ready, cover with a round of wetted paper and set aside until cold. Before using, remove any crystals which may have formed on the top of the syrup. PART II FONDANTS, CREAMS, AND TABLETS 2858. Fondant 2 lbs. loaf or granulated j § pt. cold water. sugar. 1 1 table-sp. glucose. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan and melt gradually over the fire, stirring slowly. (The contents must on no account be allowed to boil before the sugar is melted.) When melted, add the glucose, and bring quickly to the boil. Then put on the lid and boil rapidly for 5 minutes. Un- cover, and skim if necessary. Now put in the thermometer, which has been previously heated in hot water, and allow the syrup to boil until the temperature reaches from 240° to 245° F., accord- ing to the purpose for which the fondant is to be used. The syrup must be kept carefully skimmed, but on no account must it be stirred again, or it may granulate and the fondant will be spoilt. For the same reason the sides of the saucepan must be kept washed with a brush dipped in cold water. When the fondant is sufficiently boiled, pour it out on a marble slab that has been sprinkled with cold water. Sprinkle also the surface of the fon- dant with cold water to prevent a crust forming. Allow it to cool until it can be turned up at the Wooden Spatula sides with a wooden spatula ; if worked up while it is too hot it will grain. Then work it up with a wooden spatula, keeping it together as much as possible. When sufficiently cool, knead backwards and forwards with the hand until the fondant is white and perfectly smooth like a piece of putty. The fondant is then ready to be flavoured and used as required. If it has to be kept for any length of time, wrap it in wax paper, and put it in an air-tight box. It will become hard and dry if exposed to the air. Notes.—A good pinch of cream of tartar is some- times used instead of the glucose. If making a larger quantity of fondant a smaller proportion of water may be taken, it will not take so long to boil down. Fondant forms the basis of a great variety of sweets; it is extensively used in the art of con- fectionery. 2859. Fondant Creams Take some fondant made according to above directions, and boiled to 240° F., and colour and flavour it to taste. Quite a variety of different kinds may be made by using the various essences, which can now be obtained, along with an appropriate colour, as, for instance, raspberry, rose, or straw- berry flavouring with pink colouring; orange or tangerine flavouring, with orange colouring ; lemon or pine-apple flavouring, with yellow colouring; orange-flower and almond or peppermint flavour- ing, with green colouring ; or, again, white fondant with vanilla flavouring, and so on. The various liqueurs also make very good flavourings, and colouring may be used according to fancy. See also the various centres given under Chocolate Creams. Put the required amount of fondant on to a marble slab, and flatten it out with the hand. Put the colouring and flavouring on the top, and work it into the fondant with the ball of the thumb, gathering it together now and again with a scraper. Sugar Scraper Begin by using very little colouring and flavour- ing, and then add more if necessary. Avoid crude colouring and over-flavouring. When perfectly smooth and uniform in colour, allow the fondant to rest a short time before attempting to shape it, as the working out will have softened it somewhat. Then roll out in a long roll and cut across in pieces the size of a nut. Shape these with the hands, either into balls, little rolls, cone or bean shapes, according to fancy, and use a little icing sugar to prevent the fondant sticking. Place the little shapes on a tin lined with grease-proof or wax paper, and let them remain in a cool place 24 hours. Next day cover them with coating fondant (see below). 2880. Coating Fondant Take some fondant made according to above recipe, and boiled to 245° F., as it should be rather harder than that which is used for the centres. Put it into a saucepan and add the necessary colouring and flavouring. This may either be the same as that used for the centres, or a pretty contrast. Add a little sugar syrup (see p. 597) and melt the fondant over a gentle heat. Keep moving the fondant about all the time, and pounding it down with a wooden spoon or spatula. It must never be allowed to simmer. It is a good plan to take the pan away from the heat now and again, to rest it on the table and to beat the fondant well. Add enough sugar syrup to bring it to the consistency of