135 VEGETABLES AND SALADS the chopped cabbage into a saucepan with the butter, stir over the fire until hot. Sprinkle in the flour gradually and then add the milk. Season with pepper and salt and simmer by the side of the stove from 10 to 15 minutes. Grease a fireproof baking dish, turn the contents of the saucepan into it, sprinkle the bread-crumbs over the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 430. Cabbage au Gratin (Choux au Gratin) 2 cupfuls cooked cabbage. Seasoning 1 pt. white sauce. 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. A small piece of butter. Cut the cabbage in fine shreds and season it with pepper and salt. Make ready \ pint white sauce and add to it the grated cheese. Now grease a fireproof dish and put into it a little cabbage and sauce alternately, until all is in. The last layer should be sauce. Coat the top -with bread-crumbs, place on a few small pieces of butter and bake in a moderate oven until brown and crisp. Serve at once. Note.—The oven must not be too hot or the cheese will become ropy. This makes a good supper dish. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 431. Cabbage with Bacon 1 lb. cooked cabbage. 1 10 to 12 small rashers Seasoning. | of bacon. Cut 10 or 12 thin slices of bacon and fry them in a frying pan until sufficiently cooked. When ready, lift them on to a plate and keep them warm. Have the cabbage well drained and chopped, put it into the bacon fat, seasoning with pepper and salt, and stir over the fire until thoroughly hot. Grease a hot basin and press the cabbage into it. Then unmould in the centre of a hot dish and put the bacon round. Note.—Any other kind of greens may be used instead of cabbage. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 432. Cabbage with Chestnuts (Chou aux Marrons) 1 medium-sized cabbage. I 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 to 3 doz. chestnuts. ) 1 pt. milk. Seasoning. Prepare the cabbage as directed in Recipe 427, scald it in boiling water for 10 minutes, and then drain. Prepare the chestnuts, removing the outer and inner skin (Recipe 1625), put them into a sauce- pan and lay the cabbage on the top. Pour in the milk and stew very slowly by the side of the fire until both cabbage and nuts are quite tender. Then strain off the milk, put the cabbage into a hot dish and arrange the chestnuts round it. Melt the butter in a saucepan, mix in the flour, pour on the strained milk and stir until boiling. Season to taste, cook 2 or 3 minutes and pour this sauce over the cabbage. Time to stew, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 433. Cabbage with Rice (Choux au Riz) 1 or 2 young cabbages. 1 tea-cupful rice. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 pt. vegetable or meat stock. 2table-sps.grated cheese. Wash and prepare the cabbages and cut them in small pieces. Then plunge them into a saucepan of boiling salted water, boil for 10 minutes and drain. Wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with the stock and allow it to simmer 10 minutes. Then add the cabbage and seasoning, and continue to cook slowly until both cabbage and rice are tender. Stir occasionally and when ready the stock should have become absorbed. Add the butter and turn the mixture into a greased fireproof dish. Sprinkle the cheese on the top and brown quickly in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Time to cook, f to 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 434. Stuffed Cabbage (Chou Farci) 1 cabbage. 1 pt. stock. Stuffing. 4 table-sps. cooked meat. 3 table-sps. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 table-sp. melted butter or bacon fat. 1 egg. Choose a firm round cabbage of medium size. Wash it well, removing any discoloured leaves and the hard end of the stalk. Then put the cabbage into a basin, cover it with boiling water, put a plate on the top and allow it to stand from J to § hour to soften. Meanwhile prepare the stuffing. Chop the meat, onion, and parsley finely, mix them together, add the bread-crumbs and season to taste. Pour in the melted butter or fat and bind all into a stiffish paste with beaten egg. Pull the leaves of the cabbage apart, put a good spoonful of the stuffing in the centre and the remainder between the leaves. Then wrap the cabbage in a piece of well-greased paper, tie it with string and place it in a baking tin with the stock poured round. Bake in a good oven, basting every now and then with the stock. When ready, serve the cabbage on a hot dish, removing the paper and string, boil down the stock in the tin until there is just sufficient to serve as gravy, remove any grease from the top and pour it round. Notes.—An ordinary veal forcemeat, sausage meat or boiled chestnuts, may be used instead of the above stuffing. The cabbage may be stewed instead of baked. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 435. Colcannon 1 cupful cooked cabbage. 1 cupful cooked potatoes. 1 egg- 1 oz. butter or dripping. A few browned bread- crumbs. Chop the cabbage finely, removing any hard pieces of stalk. Mash or sieve the potatoes and mix them with the cabbage. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the cabbage and potato with seasoning to taste and mix well together. Then add the egg well beaten and stir it in thoroughly. Grease a plain mould or basin and coat the inside with browned bread-crumbs. Put in the cabbage mixture and bake in the oven until firm to the touch.