116 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 345. Cold Fish Fritters 6 oz. cooked fish. Pepper, salt. 1 table-sp. salad oil. Frying batter. | table-sp. vinegar. Break the fish into large flakes or small pieces, and lay them on a plate. Season them with the oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and let them lie half an hour. Meanwhile prepare some frying batter according to Recipe 1861. When ready, lift the fish out of its seasoning, dip the pieces into the batter, coating them well, and then fry them in boiling fat until nicely browned. Drain well and serve very hot, garnished with fried parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Note.—If salmon or any other oily fish is used for the fritters the oil in the marinade or seasoning mixture should be omitted. 346. Gateau of Fish and Rice J lb. Carolina rice. £ pt. fish stock or milk. 2 eggs. J lb. fish (cooked). 1 oz. butter. Grated rind of J lemon. Pepper and salt, ltea-sp. chopped parsley A little coralline pepper. Wash the rice, and put it into a saucepan with the milk or stock. Allow it to cook slowly until quite soft, adding more liquid if necessary. Then add to it the fish chopped, the butter, pepper, salt. Gateau of Fish and Rice and grated lemon rind. Beat up the eggs and add them, mixing well. Then grease a plain mould or basin, and decorate it with chopped parsley and a little coralline pepper ; pour the mixture into this, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out on a hot dish, and serve with or without sauce and garnish with parsley. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 347. Kedgeree | lb. cooked fish. > 1 raw yolk of egg. \ lb. Patna rice. 1 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- 2 oz. butter or dripping. ley. Pepper and salt. [ A pinch of nutmeg. Free the fish from all skin and bone, then weigh and chop it finely. Boil the rice as for curry (see Recipe 1586) and drain it well. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and put in the fish and rice. Season -with pepper and salt, and add the raw yolk of egg. Mix well together, and make thoroughly hot. Pile in the centre of a hot dish, making a neat pyramid, and mark up the sides with a fork. Sprinkle the chopped parsley over and serve very hot. Notes.—Finnan haddock is very nice used in kedgeree. A little curry powder is sometimes added. A hard-boiled egg can also be used, the Kedgeree white chopped and mixed with the other in- gredients, and the yolk rubbed through a sieve on the top of the kedgeree after dishing. The raw yolk of egg may be omitted, but it tends to soften the kedgeree and is an improvement. Time to cook, J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 348. Fish Kromeskies f lb. cooked fish. 1 oz. "butter. 1 oz. flour. J gill milk or fish stock. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Thin slices of bacon. Frying batter. Chop the fish very finely, carefully removing any small bones. Put the stock or milk into a small pan with the butter, and bring to the boil over the fire. Add the flour, and mix well with a wooden spoon until perfectly smooth. Then put in the prepared fish, seasoning, and yolk of egg. Mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. When firm, divide the mixture into eight portions, and form each into a cork-shaped piece, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands and board. Cut some very thin slices of fat bacon, and wrap a small piece round each fish roll. Make some frying batter, and have a pan of fat on the fire to heat. Dip the fish rolls, one at a time, into the batter, coating them well, then lift out and drop into boiling fat. Fry a golden brown colour, and drain on kitchen paper. Serve on a hot dish, with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Sufficient for 8 to 10 kromeskies. 349. Mayonnaise of Fish See Recipe 215. 350. Fish Pie with Macaroni | lb. fish, cooked or uncooked. 3 oz. macaroni. £ pt. white sauce. Lemon juice. Grated lemon rind. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. bread- crumbs. J oz. butter. Put the macaroni into a saucepan of hot water and boil until quite soft, drain, and chop it rather small. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and cut it into small pieces, or if cooked, break it