380 BREAKFAST DISHES In this country breakfast is one of the most necessary meals of the day, and yet it is the one which, as often as not, receives the least care and attention as regards its menu and service. One hears the constant complaint of lack of variety at this meal, and it is quite true that in many houses it is a most monotonous and uninteresting repast. This may often be due to the early hour at which breakfast has to be served, it has to be prepared in a hurry and the necessary cooking scrambled through at the last minute, but it is also due to lack of thought and resourcefulness on the part of the cook or housekeeper. It is never necessary to provide elaborate and complicated dishes, these would be out of place on the breakfast table; what are wanted are one or two simple dishes, well cooked and nicely served, always remembering that what pleases the eye generally pleases the palate as well. This chapter includes a representative selection of recipes suitable for breakfast dishes. It does not include them all, however, and many others of a simple and inexpensive character will be found in other sections of the book, including those dealing with the cooking of eggs and fish. GENERAL REMARKS When selecting dishes for breakfast it must always be borne in mind that the amount of time that can be devoted to actual cooking at an early hour is necessarily limited. Such dishes as can either be prepared the day before, or take little time to get ready in the morning, must therefore be chosen. In fact if one wants to have nice little dishes in the morning, a certain amount of pre- paration must always be done beforehand, but with a little forethought the morning cooking can generally be well advanced. The number of dishes that should be served at breakfast will naturally depend on the style of the house and the needs of the family. The usual allowance is one or two hot dishes, or one hot and one cold. A cold dish of some kind is always acceptable in summer, and this is not difficult to provide. Of course there are some people who do not care for variety in their principal dish, they prefer bacon, or ham and eggs, every day. _ Bacon, unfortunately, has become such an expensive item that it makes the weekly bills mount up if given too often. Some cereal, such as porridge, is usually served at the commencement of breakfast, and it should be quite easy to provide a little variety in this course as well. Hominy, semolina, grape nuts, shredded wheat biscuit, bread and milk, milk toast, &c., might all form a pleasing change, and especially in hot weather when the ordinary oat- meal porridge is found rather heating. Variety can also be introduced in the kind of bread provided. White bread, the various makes of brown bread, white or brown toast, scones, rolls, oatcakes, &c., are all acceptable according to in- dividual taste. Fruit too, either stewed or raw, is a pleasant addition to the meal; it is particularly acceptable to those who go in for a vegetarian diet, and might advantageously be used to relieve the monotony of this, the first meal of the day. An attempt should always be made to serve the hot dish at breakfast as hot as possible; bacon, for instance, and eggs in their various forms are spoilt, if they have to be taken in a lukewarm condition. This is not always easy, especially if breakfast is a prolonged meal, as it is in many houses. In these circumstances a hot-water dish would be The “ Heatorboil ” found a great boon, or a little table heater, which is warmed either by a spirit lamp or by electricity. By this means not only dishes and plates can be kept warm, but some of the heaters can be utilised for boiling a kettle or doing a little simple cooking as well. 1636. Dry Toast, To Make The bread used for toast should not be less than a day old, and a tin loaf is best for the purpose. Cut slices about a third of an inch in thickness, in order that it may be toasted to the centre. When cut too thick, a soft damp piece remains in the middle of the slice, and this untoasted part is less digestible than plain bread. Put the bread on a toasting fork and hold it a little distance from a clear, bright fire. Let it slowly dry and become a. nice uniform brown colour, without being at all black. Then turn, and toast the second side in the same way. Trim off the crusts, cut the toast in convenient-sized pieces, and stand it on end or in a toast rack to cool. Toast must never be made a long time before it is required nor laid flat on a plate or table, or it will become tough and heavy. If very crisp toast is wanted, the bread may be