COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 114 feels firm, divide it into ten or twelve small pieces. Flour the hands, take one piece at a time, and roll it into a ball, laying them as they are formed on a slightly floured board. Then with a knife, also floured, flatten them slightly, and shape them into neat round cakes. Egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249), and fry in boiling fat (see French Frying, p. 248) to a nice brown colour. Drain well. Fish Cakes and serve them neatly on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Notes.—If a little good fish sauce is available, the butter and yolk of egg may be omitted from the above list of ingredients and the sauce used in their place. A chopped hard-boiled egg may be added to the mixture if wished, and 1 or 2 sardines will help to give flavour. Sufficient for 10 or 12 cakes. 336, Fish Cakes, 2 Make in the same way as last recipe, using well- boiled and very dry rice instead of the potatoes. The rice should equal the fish in bulk and not in weight; \ lb. before cooking will be sufficient. 337. Baked Fish Cake (Pain de Poisson) Use the same mixture as for the smaller fish cakes (see above), but make it rather moist by adding more milk ora little fish sauce. Well grease a plain round soufflo tin, or even a basin, and coat the inside with browned bread-crumbs. Fill up with the fish-cake mixture, and shake the contents well down into the mould. Cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven from | to j- hour, according to size. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and serve with or without sauce poured round. Time to bake, J to § hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 338. Fish Cream (Creme de Poisson) | lb. uncooked fish. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 gill of milk. 1 gill double cream. 2 whites of egg. A pinch of nutmeg. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Free the fish from skin and bone, weigh it and shred it down finely with a knife. Put it into a mortar, and pound it well. Rinse out a small saucepan with cold water, to prevent the mixture sticking to it. Put into it the butter and the milk, and bring them to the boil over the fire. Then add the bread-crumbs, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until the bread-crumbs swell and the mixture thickens. Add this mixture to the fish in the mortar, pound well together, and rub through a wire sieve, scraping the sieve under- neath. Put the mixture into a basin, and season to taste. Beat up the whites of egg with a knife on a plate until stiff, and whip the cream in a basin with a wire whisk until thick. Add both these to the fish mixture, and stir them in as lightly as possible with an iron spoon. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould. The mould must not be more than half filled. Twist a piece of greased paper over the top of it, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and pour anchovy, lobster, or any other sauce preferred round it. Note.—This may be steamed in a border mould, and the inside afterwards filled with green peas, shrimps, or oysters mixed with a little of the sauce, or the mixture may be steamed in small moulds, allowing one for each person. Time to steam, £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 339. Fish Curry, 1 (Poisson an Kari) 6 oz. cooked fish. i oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. rice flour. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chutney. 1 onion. 1 small apple. A pt. fish stock or milk. Asqueeze of lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. grated cocoanut. Salt. Boiled rice. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, break it into flakes, and then weigh it. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the onion cut in thin slices, and fry it for a few minutes. Add the apple, peeled and chopped, the cocoanut, curry powder, rice flour, and chutney, and mix with an iron spoon until smooth. Add the stock or milk, and stir until boiling, seasoning to taste with a little salt. Simmer about 20 minutes, until the apple and onion are quite cooked, put in the fish, and let it get thoroughly heated in the sauce. Add the lemon juice last. Serve on a hot dish with a border of rice round (or the rice may be served separately). Garnish with cut lemon and parsley or a few strips of red chillies. Notes.—One or two tomatoes peeled and seeded may be added. More or less curry powder, chutney, &c., may be used, according to taste. Time to cook, £ to § horn:. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 340. Fish Curry, 2 | lb. cooked fish. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. 1 cupful boiled rice. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. \ pt. milk or fish stock. Salt. £ lemon. Remove all skin and bone from the cooked fish, then weigh it and break it in pieces. Have the rice plainly boiled as for curry (see Recipe 1586) and very dry. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices. Then melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, and mix them well together. Add the chutney, salt, curry powder, and milk or fish stock, and stir until boiling. Put in the prepared fish, rice, and eggs, and mix all very gently together. Make the mixture thoroughly hot, and serve gar- nished with thin slices of lemon.