397 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 1737. Banana Pudding, 1 1 pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. cake-crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 4 or 5 bananas. The juice of \ lemon. 1 table-sp. sugar. £ glass sherry or rum. Peel the bananas, removing all pith and string, and slice them lengthwise with a silver knife. Put them on to a plate, sprinkle them with the sugar, lemon juice, and wine, and let them soak for half an hour, turning the pieces occasionally. Meanwhile, make a custard. Beat up the yolks and whites of eggs in a basin with one dessert- spoonful of sugar and a few drops of vanilla or any other flavouring. Heat the milk almost to boiling point, and pour it on to the eggs, &c., stirring all the time. Then strain the custard into another basin, add the cake-crumbs, and allow it to cool. Grease a plain tin mould or basin, and arrange the bananas in it crosswise ; pour the custard mixture slowly over them, and cover with greased paper. Place this pudding in a steamer and steam very slowly, until it feels firm to the touch. Or, it may be cooked in a saucepan with hot water to reach half-way up the sides of the mould, but in this case a double fold of paper should be placed below the mould, to prevent the top of the pudding cook- ing too quickly and becoming tough. This pudding may be served either hot or cold, and a jam or custard sauce, to which any liquid left from the bananas should be added, may be poured round it. Time to cook, at least 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1738. Banana Pudding, 2 2 or 3 bananas. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. flour. 2 eggs. Grated rind J lemon. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Peel the bananas and cut them in thin slices with a silver knife. Put the butter and sugar into a basin with the grated lemon rind and cream them together. Add the eggs and flour by degrees and beat well. Then pour in the milk and add the bananas and lemon juice. .Mix very lightly so as not to break the bananas more than is necessary, and stir in the baking powder at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased basin, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with lemon or orange sauce poured round. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 4 lb. flour. | lb. suet. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1739. Baroness Pudding J lb. raisins. £ tea-sp. salt. A little milk. greased paper and steam steadily the required time. Serve with ginger or marmalade sauce. Time to steam, about 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1740. Batter Pudding \ lb. flour. | 2 eggs. | pt. milk. 1 A pinch of salt. Sieve the flour and salt into a basin, and make a well in the centre. Add the two eggs without beating them, mix the flour gradually into these and add the milk by degrees in the same way as for pancake batter. Beat well until the batter is full of air bubbles, then cover it over and let it stand one hour. Take a basin just large enough to hold the batter, grease it very carefully, and pour the batter into it. Tie a scalded and floured cloth over the top, plunge the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water and boil quickly until ready. Serve with fruit syrup or any nice sweet sauce, or hand melted butter and sugar separately. Note.—This pudding may be steamed or baked instead of boiled. Time to boil, II hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1741. Batter and Fruit Pudding | lb. flour. | Fruit. 2 eggs. | pt. milk. I A pinch of salt. Make the batter as in last recipe, beating it well and allowing it to stand. Grease a plain mould or basin and half fill it with fruit. Apples, cherries, raspberries, or strawberries are about the best fruits to use. Apples would require to be peeled, cored, and sliced, cherries stoned, and raspberries or strawberries carefully picked. Fill up with the prepared batter, cover with greased paper, and steam until well risen and firm to the touch. Turn out when ready and serve with cream or any suit- able sweet sauce. Note.—This pudding may be baked in a greased pie dish instead of being steamed. Time to steam, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1742. Black Cap Puddings Batter. 1 oz. currants. Make the batter according to directions given for Batter Pudding (see above) and let it stand. Grease five or six dariole moulds or very small cups, and sprinkle a few cleaned currants at the foot of each. Half fill the moulds with the batter, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily until firm and well risen. When ready, turn them out on a hot dish, and the currants will form a black cap on the top. Serve with orange or lemon sauce. Time to steam, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4d. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin, add the sugar, the suet finely chopped, and the raisins, stoned and cut in halves. Mix these dry ingredients well together, make a well in the centre, and pour in gradually enough milk to make a softish dough, about 1 gill. Pour the mixture into a basin that has been well greased and deco- rated with a few stoned raisins, and cover with 1743. Bread and Fruit Pudding Stale bread. Hot milk. I Fresh fruit. A little butter. I Sugar. Half fill a basin with stale bread broken in small pieces, cover with boiling milk and stand overnight. Next day squeeze out the bread, straining off all superfluous milk. Beat un the bread pulp with a