THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 25 Checking the Orders.—All goods when they are received should be carefully checked. Vouchers or weight bills should accompany all orders sent from the shops, and these should be used for check- ing the various items, and then kept to compare with the accounts when they are sent in. With regard to milk and bread, which are usually taken daily from a man at the door, it is a good plan to keep a small book or slate at hand on which the amount taken can be marked down. If anything is wrong as to weight or kind it should be spoken about at once, and not allowed to remain over until it is no longer fresh in the memory of either trades- people or housekeeper. It is the duty of every mistress to see that the merchandise she receives is good ; there is no virtue in allowing short weight and inferior quality, nor in permitting oneself to be imposed upon in any way. One only gets the best attention by expecting and demanding it. Payment of Provisions.—This book does not claim to deal with the management of the income nor to state how much money should be allotted to household expenses, but a chapter on marketing would scarcely be complete without saying a few words on the payment of provisions. Although there is much to be said in favour of paying cash for everything, and many economists recommend it strongly, the system has its drawbacks as well. There is no doubt that the cash method is a trouble- some one, it means more entering up each day and there is more detail work, as a small note-book would require to be kept and all payments entered as they are made. Time, too, is often lost in waiting for change or in hunting for the required amount of money. For the woman who has little time to spend on such items a system of weekly bills and tradesmen’s books will prove a decided saving both of time and trouble, and will keep the matter in a more concise form. Of course the dangers of the method are that one is more inclined to be lavish with the ordering when there is a standing account, and the bill is sometimes allowed to run on, and these risks have to be guarded against. For small households the system of weekly pay- ments should, if possible, be adopted, and especially so if the income is a limited one. Running up long bills is not economical, and if one wishes to be well served house books must be paid regularly. Of course there are special circumstances where it is not convenient to pay weekly, and where even the tradespeople prefer a monthly payment, but the books should in any case be made up and checked weekly. If accounts are only rendered once a month it is much more difficult to keep a check on the items, and mistakes are apt to pass unnoticed. WHAT TO BUY In deciding this question there are several points which must be considered, and among others the following may be mentioned : 1. The Needs and Number of the Family.—This will decide to a large extent the quantity required, and especially so as regards the daily provisions such as meat, fish, bread, milk, vegetables, &c., which are needed fresh from day to day. The likes and dislikes of thevarious members of thefamilymust be borne in mind asfar as possible,and thiscanoftenbedone with- out any extra trouble, by exercising a little thought. 2. The Money at Disposal.—This must regulate the kind of (thing to buy, whether plain, good food only has to be the rule, or whether delicacies and luxuries can be added to the daily bill of fare or only indulged in occasionally. 3. Available Storage.—The accommodation there is for keeping things must also regulate the quantity to order, especially as regards dry groceries. It is impossible for flat dwellers in large towns and others whose space is limited to lay in stores of provisions, also for those living in districts where things won’t keep beyond a certain length of time. Under such conditions it would be false economy to buy in large quantities. On the other hand, given a good dry store room and a nice airy larder there is some- times a distinct advantage to be gained by ordering in bulk such articles as will keep well. 4. The Season of the Year.—This must also be thought of when ordering food. Hot, muggy weather, for instance, is never the time for ordering in supplies, then the daily needs should be satisfied and no more. Light and cooling foods such as fish, fruit, vegetables, &c., should form the bulk of the supply, and the heavier and richer articles of diet avoided. Those who live in towns and have difficulty sometimes in keeping meat and fish even for a few hours in very hot weather, can generally get this done by the tradespeople, who will put them in cold storage and only deliver them when actually wanted, and even on Sunday morning if desired. In cold weather, on the other hand, this difficultyhas not to be thought of, and food can often be ordered for more than one day at a time with ad- vantage and a saving of both time and trouble. It must also be borne in mind that there is often a cheap and a dear season for certain classes of food, and an attempt should be made to benefit by the former by buying in as large a .store as possible of any special commodity that will keep well, and for which there is likely to be use. 5. The Daily Bill of Fare.—Previous to making out her order the mistress should go through the larder and store and make a note of what is required, always bearing in mind the bill of fare for the day. Sometimes it is possible to order for two days at a time, or to order always one day ahead to ensure having provisions in the house in good time in the morning. This is often necessary in houses where a very early dinner has to be provided for, or when one lives far from the shops, and it enables the cook, or whoever undertakes the cooking, to start preparations directlythe breakfast things are cleared away. For such things as dry groceries, a slate or indicator should be kept hanging up in the store room or kitchen, on which articles finished or nearly so can be noted, and then these articles included in the next order. When possible the grocery order should be given once or twice a week only, as this will save time and trouble. NOTES ON CHOOSING PROVISIONS For directions for choosing vegetables, fish, and meat, see under special sections. All Grains and Cereals, Soda and Salt, may be bought in moderate supplies according to the needs of the household. Sugar may be bought in considerable quan-