FISH 93 sufficiently lay it on a very hot dish, garnish with 'watercress or parsley and lemon, and serve maitre d’hotel butter, or any other savoury butter sepa- rately. 230. Another Way Prepare and cook the fish as directed for Broiled Herring. See Recipes 216, 217. 231. Mackerel, To Fry (Maquereaux Frits) Prepare and cook in the same way as Fried Herring. See Recipes 218, 219. 232. Potted Mackerel Prepare in the same way as Potted Herring, Recipe 224. 233. Mackerel, Stuffed and Baked (Maquereaux Farcis au Four) 4 or 5 button mush- rooms. A little grated lemon rind. 2 oz. butter. A little milk. Pepper. Salt. 2 medium-sized macke- rel. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 dessert-sp. chopped pickles. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly. Cut off the heads and fins, and scrape the skin well with a knife. Then dry the fish in a cloth, and they are ready for stuffing. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the chopped parsley, chopped pickles and mushrooms, grated lemon rind, pepper and salt. If there are any roes, cook them on a tin in the oven for 10 minutes, then chop them, and add them to the stuffing. Melt the butter and add half of it, with enough milk to moisten. Put this stuffing into the openings of the two fish, and sew them up with a needle and strong cotton. Place the fish on a greased fireproof dish, putting one head at one end of the dish, and one at the other. Pour the rest of the butter over the top of them, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. When ready, remove from the oven, draw out the pieces of cotton carefully, and wipe round the edges of the dish. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—A little tomato or piquante sauce may be poured round the dish when the fish is taken from the oven. Time to bake, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 234. Mackerel a la Meuniere (Maquereaux a la Meuniere) 2 mackerel. 2 oz. butter. A little flour. 1 lemon. Pepper and salt. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Clean and wash the mackerel, cutting off the heads and fins. Split them open, remove the bones carefully, and cut the fish into neat-sized pieces. Wipe these pieces with a dry cloth, season them with pepper and salt, and coat them lightly with flour. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan or earthenware casserole, when quite hot put in the fish and saute it until thoroughly cooked, without allowing it to become too brown. Then lift the fish on to a hot dish, add the juice of half a lemon to the butter in the pan, make it quite hot and strain over the fish. Sprinkle with parsley and garnish with the other half lemon, cut in thin slices. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 235. Soused Mackerel A few parsley stalks. A sprig of thyme. Brown vinegar. Salt. 3 mackerel. 1 onion. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 bay-leaf. 1 blade mace. 12 white peppercorns. Clean and wash the mackerel, cutting off the heads and fins. Lay them in a baking dish with the onion finely chopped, the spices, herbs, and salt. Cover with vinegar and bake in a good oven until thoroughly cooked. Lift the fish carefully on to a long, deep dish, strain the vinegar over them, and serve cold. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Plaice (Plie) One of the commonest of our flat fish, and gene- rally very moderate in price. The upper side is of a greyish brown colour, with bright orange spots. When these spots turn dark in colour it is a sign that the fish is no longer fresh. The flesh of the plaice is somewhat tasteless and watery, but as a rule it is a favourite. Choose one with a thick plump body. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked according to any of the methods given for sole. 236. Plaice, To Stew 1 plaice. 1 gill milk. 1 gill water. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. 1 bay-leaf. 1 blade of mace. Wash and clean the fish thoroughly, scraping the skin well from the tail towards the head, and cutting off the fins and head. Then cut the plaice right through the bone into three or four pieces. Put the milk and water into a saucepan with the bay-leaf and blade of mace, warm these over the fire, and lay in the pieces of fish. There should be sufficient liquid to just cover the fish, so if the plaice is a large one, a larger proportion of milk and water may be necessary. Season the fish with white pepper and salt, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly about a quarter of an hour. When the fish comes away easily from the bone lift the pieces carefully on to a hot dish, arranging them in the form of the fish again. Remove the black skin, if this can be done without spoiling the appearance of the fish, and then keep hot over a pan of hot water. Remove the bay-leaf and mace from the liquid in the saucepan, add the bread-crumbs and butter, and stir over the fire until this boils and the sauce thickens. Sprinkle in the parsley at the last, and see that there is sufficient seasoning. Pour this sauce over the fish, garnish with sippets of toast and a few small sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.