316 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Notes.—An egg poacher or small muffin rings placed in the pan will help to keep the eggs a Egg Poacher better shape. The acid added to the water helps to harden the white of egg and to keep it a good colour. For variations of the poached egg, see p. 321. Note.—If the eggs are required for a garnish, keep back some of the white, in order to have them smaller in size. 1324. Fried Eggs, 2 (CEufs Frits) Each egg must be cooked separately. Take a small, deep frying pan and put into it a good table-spoonful of butter, lard, or salad oil. When quite hot, break an egg into a tea-cup and slip it into the hot fat. Tilt the pan slightly so that the fat surrounds the egg, and with a spoon fold the white over the yolk. About two minutes will be sufficient to cook it. When ready, lift out carefully with a small fish slice, allowing the fat to drain from it, and place it on a hot dish. Pro- ceed with more eggs in the same way until a sufficient number is cooked, adding more fat to the pan as required. These eggs are flatter in form than No. 1. Note.—For different ways of serving fried eggs see p. 324. 1322. Eggs sur le Plat (CEufs sur le Plat) 3 eggs. I oz. butter. Salt and pepper. Lightly butter a flat fireproof dish, and break the eggs into it without breaking the yolks. Season with pepper and salt, and put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top. Set the dish in a good oven, and let it remain until the whites become set, but by no means hard. They will require Eggs sur le Plat about five minutes. Serve hot in the dish in which they were cooked. Small individual dishes may be used if wished. Notes.—A little cream may be poured over the eggs before putting them in the oven. A top heat is necessary to cook the eggs successfully. They can be done very well under the grill of a gas stove. For variations of Eggs sur le Plat see p. 323. 1323. Fried Eggs, 1 (CEufs Frits) Eggs. Salt. Pepper. Salad oil. Take a small frying pan and pour into it some pure salad oil, or sufficient to float an egg. As only one egg can be fried at a time, it is useless to take a large pan, which would only necessitate a larger quantity of oil. Heat the oil over the fire until it begins to smoke, then draw the pan slightly to the side of the fire. Break one egg at a time into a saucer, season it with pepper and salt, and glide it quickly into the hot oil. Now with a spoon dipped in the oil, roll the white quickly over the yolk to give the egg a round shape, and brown it nicely on all sides. It will be sufficiently cooked in less than a minute. Lift out with a perforated spoon, drain and proceed with the other eggs in the same way. The operation should be per- formed as quickly as possible, so that the first egg is not cold before the last one is ready. 1325. Scrambled or Buttered Eggs (CEufs BrouilKs) 4 eggs. 4 table-sps. milk or stock. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 slices hot buttered toast or croutons of fried bread. Although this is a simple dish it requires much care—as much care as an omelet. The aim must be to produce a soft creamy mixture nicely seasoned, and not a tough leathery mass served on spongy toast, as so often appears on our tables. First prepare the toast, cut it into neat fingers, and arrange the pieces on a hot dish. Then melt the butter in an enamelled or earthenware saucepan, add the eggs slightly beaten, and the milk or stock. Season carefully with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Now stir the contents of the saucepan very steadily over a moderate fire until the eggs begin to set, and the mixture is of a nice creamy consistency. An extra piece of butter stirred in at this stage will be found an improvement. When ready, remove the pan from the fire at once and pour the mixture neatly over the prepared toast. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and send to table at once. Buttered eggs must on no account be allowed to stand. If preferred they may be dished on a hot dish without the toast, and garnished with croutons of fried bread. Note.—Cream or a thin white sauce may be used in place of the milk or stock. For variations of scrambled eggs see p. 325. Probable cost, 8d. DISHES WITH HARD-BOILED EGGS I. Hot 1326. Curried Eggs 4 hard-boiled eggs. 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. rice flour. Salt. Pepper. Melt the butter in a onion very thinly sliced I tea-sp. chutney. 1 gill stock. 2 table-sps. cream or cocoanut milk. A squeeze of lemon juice. Boiled rice. saucepan, and add the Cook slowly for a few