271 SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES ham or tongue in dice, and the egg in quartered Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. To Serve.—Place an oval-shaped crouton of fried bread on a hot dish, lay the sweetbread on the top and pour the sauce round. Note.—Other sauces, such as brown, caper, beamaise, Madeira, piquante, &c., may be used instead of mushroom sauce, and the dish will change its name accordingly. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1114. Ris de Veau a la Comtesse 1 pr. sweetbreads. 2 or 3 gills white stock. 3 or 4 spring onions. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. Seasoning. 1 gill cream. 1 cupful asparagus points. A croustade of bread. Veal quenelles. Prepare the sweetbreads as directed on p. 242, trim them carefully, and break them into small pieces. Put these into a stewpan with white stock or milk and stock to cover them, add the onions, which have been thinly sliced and scalded, and stew slowly until the sweetbreads are tender. Then add the cornflour, broken with a little milk or white stock, and stir until the mixture thickens. Add the asparagus points (cooked), also the cream, make all thoroughly hot and season to taste. Prepare and cook 6 or 7 veal quenelles, decorating them with fancy-shaped pieces of truffle (Recipe 1099), and have ready also an oval- shaped crouton of fried bread. To Serve.—Arrange the sweetbread neatly on the top of the crouton, pour the sauce, &c., over, and garnish with the decorated quenelles of veal. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1115. Chaudfroid of Sweetbreads (Ris de Veau en Chaudfroid) 2 sweetbreads. Foie gras or potted meat. White chaudfroid sauce. Aspic jelly. 2 or 3 red tomatoes. Salad. Decorations. Prepare and cook the sweetbreads according to directions given on p. 242, and press them be- tween two plates with a weight on the top until cold. Then cut them in slices the size of a five- shilling piece. Coat each of these on one side with a little foie gras or any nicely seasoned potted meat, and smooth the surface over very evenly with a wet knife. Cover with white chaudfroid sauce (Recipe 714), and decorate tastefully with fancy shapes of truffle or tongue and a little finely chopped parsley or small cress. When set, pour over each round a little melted aspic, and keep them in a cool place until firm. Serve these medallions of sweetbread -with a round of bright red tomato under each, and garnish with chopped aspic and a few curly leaves of lettuce, on which has been sprinkled a little salad dressing. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1116. Ris de Veau & la Mayonnaise oz. cooked sweet- bread. oz. cooked ham or tongue. 1 hard-boiled egg. Mayonnaise sauce. Olives. Anchovy butter. Chervil or parsley. Break the sweetbread into small pieces, cut the slices. Stone and chop a few olives and mix all lightly together. Then take 6 or 7 china or silver shells (or small paper cases may be used), put a spoonful of good mayonnaise sauce into each, fill up with the mixture, and cover with more mayon- naise. Place an olive stuffed with anchovy butter on the top of each and decorate with small sprigs of chervil or parsley. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1117. Escalopes de Ris de Veau aux Epinards 1 pr. sweetbreads. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. A little butter. Rounds of ham or tongue. 1 pt. cooked spinach. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill white wine. £ pt. stock. Prepare the sweetbreads as directed on p. 242, and press them until cold. Then cut each one in four or five neat round pieces, season with pepper and salt and dip them in flour. Melt a small quantity of butter in a saute or frying pan, and cook the sweetbread in this until well browned on both sides. (If preferred, the sweetbread may be egged and bread-crumbed before being fried.) When sufficiently cooked, drain them on paper and keep them warm. Cut an equal number of rounds of ham or tongue as there are pieces of sweetbread, and warm them a Tew minutes in the same butter. To Make the Sauce.—Add the white wine to the pan in which the sweetbreads were cooked, and let it reduce. Then mix in the dessert-spoonful of flour, and add the stock. Stir until boiling, add more seasoning if necessary, and if liked a small piece of butter at the last. To Serve.—Pile some nicely cooked spinach in the centre of a hot dish and arrange the slices of tongue and sweetbread alternately round. Strain the sauce through a very fine strainer or tammy and pour it round the dish. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. , 1118. Kromeskies of Sweetbread (Cromesquis de Ris de Veau) 6 oz. cooked sweet- bread. 2 oz. cooked ham. 1 or 2 truffles. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill stock. Caul. Frying batter. Cut the sweetbread, ham, and truffles into small thin pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and then the stock. Stir over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sweetbread, ham, and truffle, also the chopped parsley and seasoning to taste. Wrash some caul, dry it, and then flatten it out on a board. Cut it in pieces about 4 inches square, put a little of the sweetbread mixture in the centre of each and fold up like a small parcel. Allow these to stand in a cool place until they are wanted, then dip them into frying batter, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well and serve piled up on a dish paper and garnished with fried parsley.