VEGETABLES AND SALADS 145 a rose pipe. Stand the rings of cucumber on a hot entree dish and fill up the centres with the puree, piling it rather high. Pour some tomato sauce round and serve very hot. Note.—A pur6e of celeriac, or of chestnuts may be used in place of the green pea puree. Sufficient for 5 or G persons. Dandelions (Dents de Lion) The leaves of the dandelion when young may be used either as a salad or cooked. For a salad they must be very young, but for cooking purposes they may be used a little larger, although not when old, as the taste is then too bitter. The leaves should be gathered in the early morning, as they are sup- posed to be more tender when the sun is not on j them. Cooked in the same way as spinach, they form one of the most wholesome of green foods, and they are said to be particularly good for the liver. Dandelion roots are sometimes cooked in the j same way as salsify. 484. Dandelions with Cream (Dents de Lion a la Creme) 1 lb. dandelion leaves. | 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 oz. butter. [ 2 table-sps. cream. Choose young fresh dandelions. Cut away the roots and remove any withered or imperfect leaves. Wash the leaves well in plenty of cold water and then soak them for 1 hour in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have been added. Drain and rinse. Put the dandelions in a perforated steamer with a little salt and steam over plenty of boiling water until the leaves are quite soft and tender. When ready, press out all the moisture and chop them finely. Now melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour and when smoothly blended lay in the dandelions. Stir until thoroughly mixed, and just before serving add the cream. Turn out on a hot dish and garnish with sippets of toast or fleurons of pufl pastry (see Recipe 1306). Note.—If the dandelions are not quite young, it will be better to scald the leaves before putting them in the steamer, as this will remove some of the bitter taste. I Time to steam, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Egg Plant, Aubergine or Brinjal This is not yet well known in this country, although each year it is becoming more popular. Egg Plants : and is now imported in considerable quantities. ! There are different kinds of egg plants, the dark purple or almost black, the red, and the white. The purple is the most common, it is more like a cucumber than an egg in shape, and has a smooth and glossy skin. The white aubergine is exactly like an egg in shape and appearance, but it is not supposed, to have so much flavour as the red or pimple. The egg plant can be cooked in a variety of ways, and it makes a nice change from the vegetables in common use. 485. Egg Plant, To Bake Wipe or wash the egg plant and put it in a fire- proof dish or baking tin with a small quantity of water. Cover with greased paper or a saucepan lid and bake in a moderate oven until tender. They can then be cut open at table, mashed up with a little butter, pepper and salt. This is one of the best ways of cooking this vegetable, as the full flavour is retained. If preferred, the egg plant may be peeled after baking and then served in a vegetable dish with a good sauce poured over it. 486. Egg Plant with Cream Sauce (Aubergines a la Creme) 2 or 3 egg plants. I l pt. cream sauce. 2 oz. butter. I Seasoning. Peel the egg plants and cut them in thin slices. Sprinkle them with salt and let them lie half an hour. Then pour off the water which has exuded from them and wipe the pieces with a cloth. Put them into a lined or earthenware casserole with the butter, cover, and cook gently for J hour. Then add J pint of white sauce to which 2 table- spoonfuls of cream have been added and cook a few minutes longer. Season to taste and dish carefully so as not to break the slices. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 487. Curried Egg Plant (Aubergines en Kari) 2 or 3 egg plants. 1 table-sp. butter or salad oil. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 cupful light stock. Seasoning. Peel the egg plants and cut them in pieces. Put the butter or oil into a small stewpan and let it become quite hot, add the chopped onion and cook it rather slowly until it begins to take colour. Then add the curry powder mixed smoothly with the stock and stir until boiling. Now put in the prepared egg plant and season to taste. Cover the saucepan and let all simmer slowly until the con- tents are tender. Serve garnished with sliced lemon and boiled rice separately. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 488. Egg Plant or Aubergine, To Fry (Aubergine Frite) 1 egg plant. [ Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Peel the egg-plant and cut it in slices about a quarter of an inch thick. Let these soak in strong K