STOCKS AND SOUPS 47 25. Sheep’s Head Broth (Potage de Tete de Mouton) 1 sheep’s head. 3 qts. cold water. 2 table-sps. pearl barley. 2 carrots. 1 turnip (small). 2 or 3 leeks. 2 sticks of celery. 2 table-sp. dried green peas. 1 table-sp.chopped pars- ley. Pepper and salt. Wash the peas and the barley, and soak them in cold water overnight. Split the head, and remove the tongue and the brains. Wash the brains, and soak them in cold water with a little vinegar in it; these are not used in the broth. Wash the head thoroughly, removing the eyes and all the soft gristle from the nostrils ; wash also the tongue, and let these soak in cold water with a handful of salt in it for one hour or more. Then put the head and the tongue into a large saucepan with cold water to cover them and a little salt, bring to the boil, pour this water away, and rinse the head and the saucepan with clean water. Put the head back into the saucepan with the barley, the green peas, salt, and three quarts of cold water. Bring to the boil, and skim well. Add the turnip and one carrot cut into very small neat pieces, the leeks cut into thin slices, and the celery cut into shreds. Simmer slowly for three hours, add the other carrot grated, and cook for half an hour longer. Add the parsley at the last, pepper and more salt if necessary. Notes.—The head may be lifted out and served as a separate dish with parsley or brain sauce poured over it, the brains may be made into little cakes and used as a garnish. Or, as much as seems desirable of the meat may be cut in small pieces and served in the soup. The tongue should always be skinned before being used. Rice may be used instead of barley, and fresh green peas instead of the dried. The brains will also make a very nice savoury dish by themselves (see Savouries). Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 8d. to Is. Quantity, 4 to 5 pints. | lb. cooked tripe. 1 pt. tripe liquor. 1 pt. hot milk. 28. Tripe Soup 2 cooked onions. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 slice toast. Seasoning. To prepare the tripe and tripe liquor, see Recipe 884. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and mix until smooth. Pour in the tripe liquor and stir until boiling. Then add the tripe and onions finely chopped and simmer slowly 15 or 20 minutes. Add the milk and seasoning and boil again. Cut the toast in small pieces, put it in the soup tureen and pour the hot soup over it. A beaten egg may also be added if liked. Note.—This soup is very light and nourishing for an invalid. Time to cook, \ hour. Probable cost, 9d. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 27. Veal Broth (Bouillon de Veau) 3 lbs. knuckle or neck of veal. 2 qts. cold water. 2 table-sps. whole rice. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 1 or 2 onions. 1 egg- Seasoning. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and put it into a saucepaD with the cold water. Add a little salt and the rice well washed. Bring slowly to the boil, then skim thoroughly and add the celery carefully washed and the onions skinned, but left whole. Simmer slowly from 2£ to 3 hours, skimming when necessary. When ready take out the veal and serve it as a separate course, with parsley or celery sauce poured over it. Remove the onion and celery from the broth and beat it for a few minutes with a wire whisk to break up the rice. Season to taste. Beat the egg in a small basin and put it in the soup tureen. Pour the hot soup gradually on to it, stirring constantly, then serve. A little chopped parsley may be added if liked. Note.—Veal broth can also be made according to directions given for mutton broth. See Recipe 18. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Quantity, 3 pints. 28, Veal Soup with Macaroni 2 lbs. knuckle of veal. Cold water. A bunch of herbs. Flavouring vegetables. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 2 oz. macaroni. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, add the salt and bring the water slowly to the boil. Skim if necessary, add a small quantity of flavouring vege- tables and a small bunch of herbs, put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly for 2 hours. Then strain the stock into a basin and carefully remove all the grease. Melt the butter in a clean saucepan, mix in the flour and cook a minute or two. Then pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Have ready the macaroni cooked as in Re- cipe 1606, and cut in small pieces (or one of the fancy Italian pastes may be used), sprinkle it into the boiling soup and allow to cook 10 minutes. Add the chopped parsley just before serving. Notes.—The meat may be served separately with a little parsley sauce poured over it; or it may be boiled again for a second stock. Time to cook, 2\ hours. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. (2) VEGETABLE SOUPS Note.—Many of the following soups are not strictly vegetarian, as meat stock is used to supply the liquid part of the soup, and beef dripping or ham fat to supply the fat required, but these can in most cases be substituted by using vegetable stock, water, or milk and water for the liquid, and some vegetable fat or oil for the fat. 29. Artichoke Soup (Potage a la Palestine) lb. Jerusalem arti- chokes. 1 oz. lean ham. stick of celery (white part) or J tea-sp. celery seed. 1 oz. butter. 1| pts. light stock. i pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Seasoning. The artichokes must be prepared with care, as they turn black very easily. First wash and brush them, then put them in a basin with clean cold water and peel them carefully, throwing them as they are ready into another basin of clean cold