COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD m greased souffle dishes, not more than half filling them, and bake them in a good oven until well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Then serve them as quickly as possible. Note.—If preferred, this mixture may be baked in one large dish. 2341. Cheese Straws, 3 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 1 (Pailles de Fromage) h yolk of egg. A pinch of cayenne. A pinch of salt. A little water. Rub the butter lightly into the flour. Add the grated cheese and seasoning, and mix into a paste with half the yolk of an egg beaten with a little water. Make the pastry rather stiff, and work with the hands until free from cracks. Then roll it out on a floured board into a strip about 4 inches wide. Trim evenly at the edges, and cut most of the Cheese Straws pastry into straws about \ inch wide. Place these on a greased tin, and out of the remainder of the pastry cut 6 or 8 rings. Bake all together in a good oven until very lightly browned and firm to the touch. Watch them most carefully, as they burn very easily. Serve them with a bundle of straws placed in each ring. Note.—These may be served either hot or cold. 2342. Cheese Straws, 2 (Pailles de Fromage) Make in the same way as Allumettes de Fromage (Recipe 2327), cutting the strips much thinner, like straws. These may either be served as a savoury or as an accompaniment to some soups. 2343. Cheese Tartlets (Tartlettes de Fromage) 7 or 8 small pastry cases. \ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. \ gill milk. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 egg. Cayenne. Make some small cases or croustades of pastry as directed in Recipe 2248, but do not bake them. The ordinary short crust may be used, and a little grated cheese may be worked into it before rolling it out. To make the cheese mixture, melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the cornflour, and mix the two together. Then stir in the cheese, yolk of egg and seasoning, and lastly, the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture, sprinkle a little grated cheese on the top, and bake them in a good oven until nicely browned and well risen. Serve at once. 2344. Devilled Chestnuts (Marrons a la Diable) Chestnuts. Salad oil. Seasoning. Boil some good chestnuts and remove the outer and inner skin. Melt a small quantity of salad oil in a frying pan, and fry the chestnuts in it a few minutes, seasoning them with salt and cayenne pepper. Then drain and place each chestnut in a little paper case. Serve very hot. 2345. Devilled Chicken Croustades 3 oz. cooked chicken. 1 oz. cooked ham or tongue. 1 or two table-sps. stock or gravy. \ tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chopped shallot. A little chutney. Tomato. 6 or 7 croustades of pastry. Make the croustades of pastry as directed in Recipe 2248, and bake them until nicely browned. Cut the chicken and ham in fine shreds, or chop them. Heat them in a saucepan with the stock or gravy, add the shallot, curry powder, seasoning to taste, and a little chutney. Fill the pastry cases with this mixture, put a thin shoe of tomato on the top of each, and place them in the oven until thoroughly hot. Garnish with sprigs of parsley. 2346. Devilled Chicken Livers, 1 (Foie de Volaiile a la Diable) 2 chicken livers (cooked) 1 egg. oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 1 dessert-sp. port wine. | tea-sp. mustard. Cayenne. Salt. Croutons of fried bread. Small fresh mushrooms. Ham butter. Chop the livers finely and put them into a mortar with the egg, butter, wine, and seasoning. Pound well and rub through a sieve. Heat this mixture in a small saucepan. Fry some heart-shaped croutons of bread and butter, trim an equal number of small mushrooms and fry them also. Spread the croutons with the liver mixture, place a mush- room on the top with the hollow side uppermost, and place a small ball of ham or other savoury butter in the centre. Serve hot. 2347. Devilled Chicken Livers, 2 (Foie de Volaiile a la Diable) 2 chicken livers. 1 dessert-sp. anchovy essence. Made mustard. Pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. A little butter. Hot buttered toast. Devilled almonds. Chopped parsley. Take 2 cooked livers, and pound them in a mortar with a small piece of butter and the anchovy essence. Season highly with made mustard, pepper, salt, and a good pinch of cayenne. When the mixture is smooth, spread it on neat pieces of hot buttered toast. Place them under the grill of the gas stove a minute or two, then garnish with shreds of devilled almonds and a little finely chopped parsley or coralline pepper. 2348. Chicken Liver on Toast (Tartines de Foie de Volaiile) 2 or 3 chicken or game livers. 1 oz. butter. | shallot. 1 tea-sp. red-currant jelly- Pepper. Salt. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 table-sp. grated Par- mesan. Hot buttered toast. Take cooked livers, chop them and then pound them with the butter until perfectly smooth. Add