338 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD pastry, remove it from the finger, squeeze the edges together, and open out the petals. To Make a Tassel.—Roll out a small piece of pastry in a strip, about 1J inches in width. Cut this strip across like a fringe to about one half its width and then roll up. When the pie is decorated, brush it over with a little beaten egg or with egg and milk, and it will be ready for baking. To Bake and Serve the Pie.—Place the pie on a baking tin or Yorkshire pudding tin, and put it in a hot oven the first half hour, or until the crust is risen and set, and beginning to brown. Then move it to a cooler part, 60 that the meat may cook more slowly. As soon as the crust is dark enough it should be covered with a double piece of paper until the pie is cooked. The meat may be tested by running in a skewer through the hole in the top. As soon as the pie is done, remove it from the oven. Heat some good stock or gravy and pour it in through a filler, or out of a small cream jug. Wipe the dish v ith a wet cloth and garnish with parsley before serving. 1452. Beefsteak and Kidney Pie (Pfit6 de Bifteck et Rognons) Time to bake, 1 £ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 1 lb. beef (cut thin). 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 hard-boiled egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Salt, pepper. 1 table-sp. flour. £ tea-sp. Jamaica pepper. 1 dessert-sp. ketchup. 4 table-sps. stock or water. Flaky, rough-pufi, or dripping pastry. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and trim away all skin and any superfluous fat. Cut it into narrow strips suitable for rolling up. Split the kidneys, remove the skin and inside fat, and cut them into small pieces. Mix the flour, salt, pepper, and Jamaica pepper together on a plate. (The usual proportions of seasoning to allow are one tea- spoonful salt and quarter of a tea-spoonful of pepper to each pound of meat, but this must vary accord- ing to taste. The flour is used to thicken the gravy, and this may be omitted in a pie that is to be served cold.) Dip the pieces of meat and kidney into this mixture, coating them on all sides. Roll up the strips of steak with some of the kidney and a small piece of fat inside each. Place these rolls loosely in a pie dish, heaping them rather high in the middle of the dish to support the crust, and sprinkling them with the chopped parsley. Remove the shell from the hard-boiled egg, and cut it into six or eight pieces. Arrange these pieces round the meat, pour in the ketchup and half the stock or' water. Then cover the pie with rough puff or any other suitable pastry, and according to directions given on p. 337. Notes.—A little chopped mushroom or an oyster may be rolled up inside the meat instead of the kidney, and some chopped shallot or onion may be added if wished. A few potatoes, partly cooked and thinly sliced, may be mixed with the meat, and will help to fill up the dish, when a large quantity of meat is not desired. Good rump steak should be used for making pies, as an inferior part is very likely to be tough. If steak not of the tenderest must of necessity be used, it should be partially cooked before putting on the crust covering. See p. 336. 1453. Calf’s Head Pie (Pate de T§te de Veau) \ calf’s head (cooked). 6 oz. bacon. 1 calf’s tongue (cooked). 2 hard-boiled eggs. The brains. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Grated lemon rind. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. I tea-sp. powdered herbs. A pinch of nutmeg. Stock. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Cut the half calf’s head in small pieces, removing all skin, bones, and gristle. Skin the tongue and cut it in thin slices, and cut the bacon in small strips free from rind and rust. Mix these different meats together and season them well with pepper and salt. Pack them lightly into a pie dish, ar- ranging the pieces so that there will be room for jelly stock between. Then make some brain balls. Chop the brains, add to them the bread-crumbs and parsley, and season with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix well and form into little balls. If too dry, moisten with a little yolk of egg. Arrarge these balls and the hard-boiled egg on the top of the pie, and pour in two or three table-spoonfuls of stock. The mixture should be piled high in the centre of the dish and away from the sides. Cover with rough- puff or flaky pastry as directed on p. 337, and bake in a good oven. When cooked, pour in more stock by means of a funnel placed in the hole in the top. This pie may be served either hot or cold. Note.—One or two calf’s feet, if well cooked, may be cut in small pieces and mixed with the other meat in the pie. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Cost uncertain. 1454. Chicken and Ham Pie, Cold (Paid Froid de Volaille) 1 tender chicken. 2 hard boiled eggs. 3 oz. ham or bacon. A pinch of ground mace. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Some jelly stock. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Cut the chicken into neat pieces free from bone and with as little skin as possible. Season it with pepper, salt, and parsley, add the ham cut in small pieces, and mix well together. Take a pie dish just large enough to hold the meat, rinse it out with cold water and leave it wet. Then decorate the bottom with sections of hard-boiled egg and chopped parsley. Fill up with the chicken and ham, &c., and press the meat well down, making it level with the top of the dish. Pour in half a gill of white stock, or just enough to moisten the meat. Cover the pie according to directions given on p. 337, but put on no decorations. Bake in the oven until the chicken feels tender when it is tested with a skewer. When ready, remove the pie from the oven and pour in as much stock (that will jelly when cold) as the pie will hold. If the stock is not stiff enough a little gelatine must first be dissolved in it. Then set the pie away until it is quite cold.