POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 277 To Bone a Fowl Choose the fowl untrussed, as it will then be firmer and easier to work on. First singe it, and pick out any ends of feathers. Remove the legs at the knee joint, at the same time withdrawing the sinews. Cut off the neck close to the body, leaving a flap of skin to turn over, the same as in ordinary trussing. Then lay the fowl on a board, with the back uppermost, and make a cut through the skin right down the middle of the back. With the point of the boning knife, work down one side, raising the flesh as cleanly from the bones as possible, and being careful not to break through the skin. Disjoint both the legs and wings from the body, and continue removing the flesh from the carcase until the centre of the breast bone is reached. Then proceed with the other side of the bird in the saihe way, and lift the carcase out. Now bone the legs. Take hold of the first bone where it was disjointed from the body, and scrape the flesh off it until the next joint is reached. Crack the joint, and remove the first part of the bone. Remove the flesh from the other part of the bone in the same way, turning the leg outside in. Bone the second leg, and then remove as much of the wing bone as possible, cutting off the lower joint entirely. Now spread out the fowl on the table, and remove any pieces of sinew or gristle, also trim off any discoloured parts at the neck or tail. To stuff and make a galantine of a boned fowl, see Recipe 1141. (_ 1126. Roast Fowl It is not at present the fashion to stuff a fowl for roasting, it is usually served very simply. However, it stuffing is liked, there is no reason why it should not be put in. Either veal, oyster, or chestnut stuffing (see Stuffings, p. 307), or well- seasoned sausage meat may be used. This should be put in at the neck end. Loosen the skin as much as possible from the breast, put a layer of the stuffing over the flesh of the breast and then as much as the loose skin of the neck will contain. Fold the skin over and put in one or two stitches with a needle and cotton. If a still larger amount of stuffing is wanted, put some inside the body as well. When no stuffing is used, a few shelled chestnuts, when in season, may be put inside, or some people like the flavour of an onion or a little celery placed in the body. After any preliminary preparation, truss the fowl as directed above. The roasting may be done either in front of the fire or in the oven. In either case the breast of the fowl should have one or two slices of fat bacon tied over it, to impart flavour to the flesh and render it less dry Make one or two slits in the bacon to prevent it curling up. Then cover the bird with greased paper and roast, according to general directions for roasting given on p. 207. Keep it well basted with butter, dripping, or bacon fat—this is most important. The time will depend on the age and size of the bird—a chicken will take § hour, an older bird from 1 to 1J hours. Test it by feeling the flesh of the leg, if it gives way to pressure it is ready. A short time before the fowl is to be taken from the oven, remove the paper and bacon, dredge the breast with flour, baste well, and brown quickly. To Serve.—When the fowl is ready, lift it on to a hot dish, remove the trussing string and pour away any grease that may run out of it. Garnish with watercress seasoned with lemon juice and salt. A nice gravy should always be served with the fowl. Pour away the fat from the tin in which it was roasted and add one cupful of stock or water. Stir over the fire until boiling, rubbing down any browning from the tin. Season nicely and serve in a sauce boat. If preferred the gravy may be poured round the dish, and a garnish of rolls of bacon used instead of the watercress. Bread sauce may also be served with the fowl. The best accompaniment to roast poultry is a well-made salad, although many people still prefer hot vegetables. Note.—Instead of the above sauce, chestnut or musliroom sauce may be served. 1127. Boiled Fowl Prepare the fowl and truss it for boiling as directed above, then rub it over with cut lemon and wrap it in a piece of greased kitohen paper to keep it a good colour. * Have ready on the fire a saucepan of freshly boiling water, or, better still, some white stock or meat boilings. Put the fowl into this with a little salt, and allow it to simmer slowly until tender. Unless slowly cooked the flesh will become hard and tasteless. The time will depend on the age and size of the fowl, from 1£ to 3 or 4 hours. When sufficiently cooked, lift it out on to a hot dish, and remove the paper and string from it. Mask it with parsley, oyster, bechamel, egg, or celery sauce, and garnish with little rolls of bacon (see Recipe 1646) or hard-boiled egg. There should be sufficient sauce to coat the fowl and to cover the flat part of the dish. A piece of boiled ham or bacon may be served separately. Note.—If water is used for boiling, a few pieces of flavouring vegetable, especially celery, should be added to it. 1128. Steamed Fowl Prepare the fowl as for boiling. Put it into a double saucepan or steamer, and cook it until tender. Allow rather a longer time than for boiling, and finish off in the same way. 1129. Braised Chicken with Tomatoes 1 tender chicken. 2 table-sps. butter or fat. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 lb. tomatoes. \ pt. stock. | glass sherry. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Prepare and truss the chicken as for roasting (see p. 276). Melt half the butter or fat in a sauce- pan, when smoking hot put in the chicken, and brown it on all sides. Melt the rest of the fat in a frying pan, and when hot put in the tomatoes, peeled and cut in small pieces, and the cnion finely chopped. Fry these slowly about ten minutes, and then add them to the browned chicken. Season with pepper and salt, and pour in the stock. Now