COLD MEAT REDRESSED 251 a hot dish. Serve the mince in the centre and heat for a minute or two in a hot oven. The meat may be garnished with a few small rolls of bacon or some grilled mushrooms. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1017. Cassolettes of Cold Meat Potato cases. Cold meat mince. Make some potato cases, as directed in Recipe 544, and fill them with some nice savoury mince. Put the little lids on the top and place them in the oven a minute or two. Serve very hot with a sprig of parsley on each. 1019. Curry of Cold Meat 4 lb. cooked meat. I Lemon. | pt. curry sauce. | Boiled rice. Cut the meat in small dice, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Make some good curry sauce, as directed in Recipe 685, put the prepared meat into it and allow it to re-heat and become thoroughly impregnated with the sauce, but do not boil. The best way of doing this re-heating is in a double saucepan, or au bain-marie. Serve in a deep dish and garnish with sliced lemon. Serve a dish of boiled rice separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1018. Cold Meat Croquettes i lb. cold cooked meat. 1 tea-sp. chopped onion, ltea-sp.chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 table-sp. brown or tomato sauce. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Some scraps of pastry. Beaten egg. Bread-crumbs or vermi celli. First Prepare the Mixture.—Trim the meat care- fully and put it through a mincing machine, or chop it finely. Put the minced meat into a small basin. Cold Meat Croquettes add to it the parsley, onion, and seasoning, and bind all together with brown, tomato, or any other good sauce. The mixture must not be made too soft. To Make the Croquettes.—Roll out some scraps of pastry very thinly. The thinness of the pastry is most important, as if left too tnick it will not be cooked sufficiently, and the croquettes will be most unwholesome. Stamp the pastry into rounds, 3 to 4 inches in diameter, and with a small brush wet round the edges with a little water or beaten egg. Put a small portion of the meat mixture in the centre of each and double over, pressing the edges well together. If wished larger, put one round on the top of the other with some of the meat mixture between. Other shapes, instead of rounds, may be used, if preferred. Next egg and bread- crumb the croquettes, or, instead of bread-crumbs, use crushed vermicelli, fry a nice brown colour, and not too quickly, in boiling fat, and drain on kitchen paper. Pile them on a hot dish with a d’oyley or dish paper under them, and serve hot. Note.—The croquettes may be baked instead of fried, and the seasoning may be altered according to the kind of meat used, and also to suit individual taste. Sufficient for 7 or 8 croquettes. 1020. Darioles of Cold Meat 6 oz. cooked meat. 3 oz. cooked potatoes. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. A small piece of butter. 1 egg. Seasoning. A little stock or gravy. Browned bread-crumbs. 1 gill brown or tomato sauce. Grease half a dozen dariole moulds or small basins and coat the sides with fine browned bread-crumbs. Melt a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and add to it the meat finely chopped, the potato sieved, and chopped parsley. Season to taste and moisten with a little stock or gravy and the egg slightly beaten. Fill the prepared moulds with this mix- ture, sprinkle a few more browned crumbs on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Turn out the darioles on a hot dish and pour some brown or tomato sauce round. Notes.—Any kind of meat may be used for these, and a little ham or tongue, used along with other meat, is always advisable. The mixture must not be made too moist or the darioles will not keep their shape. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 6 darioles. 1021. Cold Meat Dormers 1 cupful cooked meat. 1 cupful cooked rice. 2 table-sps.chopped Suet 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley J tea - sp. powdered herbs. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. A little flour. Butter or dripping. Sauce or gravy. The rice must be well cooked and as dry as possible. Mix it with the meat, finely chopped, and add the chopped parsley, suet, and powdered herbs. Season to taste, and bind together with Cold Meat Dormers the yolk of egg, and a little stock or sauce, if neces- sary. Form the mixture into small sausage- shaped pieces, using a little dry flour, and then egg and bread-crumb them. Fry the dormers in