RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES 377 likely to prove too much for a not overstrong digestion, although two or three carefully blanched and dried almonds, eaten at the end of a meal, will sometimes aid digestion. Another reason for the indigestibility of nuts lies in their being rapidly eaten and insufficiently masti- cated. For this reason vegetarians very often grind them; in fact for those who go in for nut cookery to any extent a nut-mill will be found invaluable. The price of this little machine is from Is. 6d. upwards, and if the nuts are first slightly roasted and then ground, they are more likely to have a good flavour than those bought in the ground form. There is quite a variety of nuts now on the market, both shelled and unshelled, such as almonds. 1. Sapucaia Nut. 2. Walnut. 8. Brazil Nut. 4. Peccan. 5. Almond. 6. Barcelona. 7. Chestnut. Barcelona, Brazil and Cashew nuts, chestnuts, cocoanuts, hazel nuts or filberts, pea nuts, peccans, pine nuts or pignolias, pistachios, sapucaia nuts. I 3 1. Filbert. j 8. Pea Nuts. 2. Pine Nuts or Pignolias. I 4. Cashew Nuts. walnuts, &c. All these may be eaten in their natural state, besides being suitable for cooking, with the exception of the chestnut, which, owing to the large amount of starch it contains, must always ba cooked. There are also various nut foods to be had from the different nut-food specialists, along with special recipes for their use, and several kinds of nut butter, which form very good frying media. 1624. Chestnuts, To Boil (Marrons) Wash the chestnuts, make a slit with a knife in the shell of each and throw them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, slightly salted. Boil them quickly from 20 to 30 minutes, or until they are quite tender, and then drain. They may now be served very simply as they are, in a folded serviette with pats of butter handed separately, when they wall form a nice relish for a family supper party. If, however, they are to be served as a vegetable, remove the outside shell and brown inner skin, season them lightly with pepper and salt, and toss them in a little butter over the fire. Serve them very hot. Note.—Chestnuts make a very good substitute for potatoes, and are a nice change. 1625. Chestnuts in Brown Sauce (Marrons a 1’EspagnoIe) 1J lbs. chestnuts. J pt. brown sauce. To Prepare the Chestnuts.—First remove the outer shell and the inner brown skin from the chestnuts. There are different ways of doing this : (1) Wash the chestnuts, make a small slit in the rounded side of each with the point of a knife, put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil, and boil 2 or 3 minutes. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep them warm without boiling. Take a few at a time from the water and with the point of a knife remove the two skins. An old saucepan should be used for this, as the chestnuts cause discoloration. (2) Make a slit in the side of the chestnuts to prevent their bursting, and put them on a tin in the oven for 8 or 10 minutes. Then take out a few at a time and remove the skins with the point of a knife. Care must be taken that the chestnuts do not brown, especially for certain dishes; so, if the oven is very hot, put a little water in the tin to avoid this. The skins can be removed most easily when the chestnuts are very hot; it is better, therefore, when a large quantity is required, to prepare only a few of them at a time. Have ready | pint brown sauce, put the prepared chestnuts into this and let them stew until tender. Note.—Other sauces may be used in the same way. Time to stew, | hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1626. Chestnuts with Parsley Sauce 1 lb. chestnuts. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 yolk of egg. Salt. Pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare and boil the chestnuts as directed above, and remove from them the outer and inner skins. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chestnuts, sprinkle them with the flour, and cook a few minutes without allowing the contents to brown. Then add the milk and seasonings, and stir until smooth. Cook for a few minutes, then remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the