COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 445 Mixtures for Filling a Charlotte Russe (lj-pt. mould) No. 1 3 gills double cream. 4 oz. gelatine. | gill of water. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. | tea-sp. vanilla essence or 1 table-sp. of noyeau or other liqueur. Whip the cream to a stiff froth, and add one dessert-spoonful or more of fine sugar. Flavour to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in \ gill of water, and strain it slowly into the cream, stirring all the time. When it begins to stiffen, turn it into the prepared mould. No. 2 2 eggs. 1 gill of milk. dessert-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. ; | oz. gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. 1 gill of double cream. I I table-sp. sherry. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and add it to the custard with a pinch of salt. Strain all into a basin, and add the sherry, or any other flavouring preferred. Add the whipped whites of the two eggs, and stir occasionally until almost setting. Lastly, add the cream, whipped stiffly, and fill up the prepared mould. 1 gill orange juice. 4 gill lemon juice. 4 gill cold water. No. 3 2 oz. sugar. 4 oz. gelatine. 2 eggs. Put the orange and lemon juice into a lined saucepan with the sugar, and heat over the fire until the sugar is dissolved. Then turn it slowly on to the beaten yolks of the eggs, stirring all the time. Return this to the saucepan, and cook until it begins to thicken. Stir carefully, and do Charlotte Russe not boil. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, and add it to the fruit custard, and strain all into a basin. When cool, add the whites of the two eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and beat the mixture until it begins to stiffen. Then fill up the prepared mould. To Serve.—When the cream is set, turn out the charlotte russe on a glass or silver dish with a lace-edged paper under it, or a border of chopped jelly round. Other Decorations.—Instead of having a plain top of cream or biscuit, a charlotte can be orna- mented in many ways and made very elaborate if desired. The top of the mould may first be decorated with some sweet jelly and garnished with different fruits, and this allowed to set before lining the sides with biscuits or cake. Or, after turning out the mould, it may be ornamented with royal or butter icing put through a forcing bag. Or again, some of the inside mixture may be put into a forcing bag, and pressed out over the top in fancy forms. Meringues and whipped cream may also be used for decorating the top. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 2003. Charlotte Muscovite Make in the same way as Charlotte Russe, lining the mould with pink and white biscuits alternately, and filling the centre with apple cream (see Recipe 1996). When turned out, deco- rate with preserved fruits in different colours. 2004. Chestnuts with Cream (Nld de Marrons a la Creme) 1 lb. chestnuts. Milk. A small piece of vanilla. 4 lb. castor sugar. 4 pt. double cream. Sugar and flavouring. Decorations. Crystallised violets and pistachio nuts. Peel the chestnuts (see p. 377), put them into a saucepan with enough milk to cover them, and add a small piece of vanilla. Simmer slowly until the chestnuts are quite tender and the milk reduced. Crush them in the stewpan with a wooden spoon, add the sugar, and pass all through a fine sieve. Put the puree into a basin, and stir it for a minute or two to render it smooth—it should be of a good consistency. Place a clean wire sieve upon a round dish, pass the chestnut puree through it, and form a border round the dish. Whip and flavour the cream, and pile it in the centre. Deco- rate with a few crystallised violets and chopped pistachio nuts. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 2005. Chocolate Cream Make in the same way as Vanilla Cream (Recipe 2030), dissolving 2 oz. unsweetened chocolate in the milk before making the custard. The chocolate should be shred down or grated and melted in a small quantity of the milk before the larger quantity is poured into the saucepan. If sweetened choco- late is used, rather a larger quantity will be re- quired, and some of the sugar may be omitted. The mould for a chocolate cream would look pretty,decorated with sweet jelly, if made white with a small quantity of cream, and a few violets or silver dragees might be placed on the top when the cream is turned out. 2006. Chocolate Costard (Crdme Tournee au Chocolat) 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. | 5 yolks of eggs. 1 gill of hot water. 2 or 3 oz. fine sugar. 1 pt. milk. I 4 whites of eggs. Dissolve the chocolate in a saucepan with the hot water, add the milk, and bring it almost to the boil. Put the yolks of eggs into a basin with the sugar, and cream them well together with a wooden spoon. Add the chocolate little by little