SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES Fillet of Beef The fillet proper is the under cut of the sirloin of beef, and is the most tender and most esteemed part of the animal. When a large piece of fillet is served whole it is usually larded, and braised or roasted. It may then be served as the piece de releve at a dinner, or be cut in slices after cooking and served as an entree. Many different garnishes may be served with a fillet of beef, and the accompanying sauce varied according to taste. It is a more common practice, however, to serve fillet of beef in small trimmed pieces, when it forms a very favourite entree. These little fillets are known under different names, depending chiefly on their shape and thickness, such as medallions de bceuf, filets mignons, tournedos, &c., but directions for cooking one may be taken as applicable to all. They are generally grilled or sauted. A thick steak from the fillet furnishes what is known as the Chateaubriand. Fillets of beef may be served in ways innumerable, variety being supplied in the sauce and garnish, and the dish taking its name accordingly. 1067. Filet de Bceuf a la Dauphine 2 to 2\ lbs. fillet of beef. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. flour. 2 or 3 table-sps. butter or dripping. Madeira sauce. Potato croquettes. Wipe the meat and trim it carefully, removing all fat and tendonous parts. Lard the best side of it with lardoons of bacon about 2 inches in length, arranging them in close and even rows the whole length of the meat. Season with pepper and bind or skewer into a neat shape. Now roll the larded fillet in flour and roast it in a good oven, keeping it well basted with butter or dripping, and covered with paper until a short Fillet of Beef Larded time before serving. A coating of glaze at the last will also help to improve the colour. When the meat is ready, lift it on to a hot dish and undo the fastening. Pour away all fat from the roasting tin, pour into it the Madeira sauce and bring it to the boil, rubbing down any browning from the sides of the tin. Serve the meat either whole or cut in slices, strain the sauce round, and garnish with potato croquettes. Time to roast, about 1J hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1068. Filet de Bceuf a la Provencale 2 lbs. fillet of beef. Larding bacon. 1 oz. butter or fat. Flavouring vegetables. Stock. 1 tea-sp. potato flour. 2 glasses Marsala or Madeira. Baked tomatoes. Baked or broiled mush- rooms. Prepare and lard the fillet of beef as above, tie it into shape and then braise it. Melt a small piece of butter or good fat in a stewpan, lay in a few pieces of fat bacon—the trimmings from the larding bacon will serve the purpose—and then, on the top, some onion, carrot, and celery cut in thin slices, and a bunch of herbs. Moisten with about one gill of stock, and heat over the fire. Now place the prepared fillet on the top of the vegetables, season with pepper and salt, and leave with the lid off until the meat and vegetables begin to take colour, be:ng careful they do not burn. Then add the wine and enough stock to cover the vegetables, lay a piece of greased paper over the meat, put on the lid and cook by the side of the fire or in the oven until tender, basting occasionally. When ready, lift the meat on to a baking dish or tin, brush it over with liquid glaze and place it in the oven for a few minutes to crisp the lardoons. Strain the liquid, remove the grease, return it to the saucepan and thicken with the potato flour, adding a little more stock and seasoning if neces- sary. Serve the meat on a hot dish, either whole or cut in slices, strain the sauce round, and garnish with small baked tomatoes, and grilled or baked mushrooms. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1069. Filet de Bceuf a la Richelieu 1 table-sp. tomato puree A small bunch of herbs. Garnish. Braised lettuces. Stuffed tomatoes. Stuffed mushrooms. 2 lbs. fillet or beef. Larding bacon. 2 oz. beef dripping. 1 carrot. 1 onion. 2 glasses white wine. 1 gill brown sauce. Lard and prepare the meat as in last recipe, binding it into a neat and compact shape. Melt the dripping in a stewpan, and when hot put in the meat and brown it on all sides. Then add the wine and allow this to reduce to half the quantity. Add the brown sauce, which ought to be very thin, the tomato puree or sauce, and bunch of herbs. Cover with the saucepan lid and cook in a moderate