SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET Sauce-making is one of the most interesting and certainly one of the most important branches of cookery. Almost all dishes are improved by a well-made sauce, while with others the sauce is the very making of them. Two or three really good sauces of contrasting colours and flavours will go a long way towards ensuring the success of a dinner, and, when well prepared, they will cause even what would otherwise be considered plain fare to be eaten with enjoyment and relish. Very full directions in regard to the successful making of sauces, together with a number of useful recipes, are given in this section. GENERAL REMARKS ON SAUCES Most sauces are easily made if the directions given are closely followed and the different in- gredients carefully weighed and measured. The seasoning and flavouring is, in some cases, difficult, and it is almost impossible to lay down hard and fast rules as regards this. While each sauce should have its own distinctive flavour', over which nothing should predominate, the likes and dislikes of those who are to partake of it must be considered, and the minor flavourings must be blended in such a way as will produce an agreeable whole. This proper blending of flavours is the highest art in cookery, and one which can only be acquired with care and experience. A sauce is a somewhat more complicated pre- paration than a gravy. A gravy is, as a rule, just the simple juice of the meat to which a little water or stock is sometimes added to increase the quantity, as in the case of roast meat. This gravy is some- times slightly thickened (see p. 208), but it should always remain simple in character and flavour. The thickening of a sauce may be made of flour and butter, yolks of eggs and cream, butter and cream, or some farinaceous product such as arrow- root, cornflour, potato flour, &c. The basis of most sauces is butter and flour cooked together, which makes a thickening. This thickening is fre- quently called a “ roux.” If for a white sauce, the flour and butter are not coloured ; if for a brown, the butter is first allowed to take colour, then the flour is added and cooked until brown also. To this thickening is added the liquid and seasoning- suitable to the dish with which the sauce has to be served. After the liquid is poured on the sauce must be stirred constantly until boiling, or it will be lumpy. Sauces frequently have a raw taste, owing to the flour in them not being properly cooked. No sauce is ready as soon as it thickens; it must boil at least five minutes. The thickness of the sauce can be regulated, ac- cording to the purpose for which it is to be used, by adding more or less liquid. When it is required for coating a piece of meat, fish, &c., it should be made thick enough to coat the back of the spoon with which it is stirred. When it is required for pouring round a dish it should be made thin in order to flow smoothly without being lumpy. "When wine is used allow the sauce to boil 182 for two or three minutes after it has been added, in order to blend the flavour. If cream is added, let it also boil in the sauce for a minute or two. Before adding yolks of eggs to a sauce, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, then put them in, and do not let the sauce boil again. When lemon juice has to be added to any sauce containing milk or cream add it last of all, and do not boil again. Strain all sauces before using, except those which have a chopped ingredient served in them, such as caper, parsley, egg sauce, &c. A pointed strainer is the best to use for this, as it will be more easy to direct the flow of the liquid. Many of the best sauces are rubbed through a hair sieve or wrung through a tammy-cloth (see below) in order to give them a smooth and glossy appearance. TO KEEP SAUCES WARM When a sauce has to stand some time before being used, stand the small saucepan containing it Bain-marie in a larger one with hot water, or bain-marie, and cover the sauce with a lid to prevent a skin forming.