315 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS The egg is one of our most useful foods; not only does it contain nourishment in a concentrated and easily-digested form, but it is esteemed and liked by most people. Eggs to be good must be perfectly fresh, in fact unless they are so they are not worth using. They are most easily digested when raw, simply cooked they can generally be taken without difficulty, but when hard-boiled they should be shunned by those who have a weak digestion. The egg is also valuable because it lends itself so readily to different modes of treatment, and the only thing to be deplored is that there is such a lack of variety in egg dishes as they appear on our tables. There is scarcely anything in the way of scraps that cannot be utilised in some little egg dish, the remains of fish, meat, game, poultry, and even vegetables and sauces can all be requisitioned, and will only help to make the dish more tasty and appetising. It is to be hoped that the following recipes will give one a fair idea of how the simple poached egg, boiled egg, scrambled egg, &c., can be varied, and that personal ingenuity will invent many other tempting and savoury dishes. A few fireproof china dishes and little egg cocottes will assist materially in presenting these egg dishes in a dainty form. PART I EGG DISHES SIMPLE METHODS OF COOKING EGGS 1319. Boiled Eggs (CEufs a la Coque) Choose the freshest eggs possible. A fresh egg should feel heavy, and when held to a bright light should show no dark specks. Soft-boiled eggs should have the white part set and creamy, but not hard. There are several methods of boiling eggs. 1. Slip the eggs gently, one by one, and with a spoon, into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them. If only half the egg is immersed in the water, it will not cook equally. Keep the water slowly boiling all the time, and allow three minutes for an egg with a creamy white, or half to one minute more if to be set pretty firm. This depends upon individual taste. 2. Place the eggs in boiling water as above. Put the lid on the pan, and when the water reboils, place the pan by the side of the fire where the water will cease to boil, but at the same time keep its heat. Stand for ten minutes, and then lift out the eggs. The white will be found to have set without being tough, and the yolk will be creamy. 3. Place the eggs in cold water over the fire, and remove them as soon as the water boils. Notes.—Soft-boiled eggs can be reheated by standing them for three or four minutes in hot (not boiling) water, as when once cooked and lifted from the fire no amount of subsequent re- cooking will harden them. If an egg is cracked, rub it over with a cut lemon the moment before it is put in the water, or cover the crack with a piece of gummed paper. The paper will come off, but not before the white of egg is sufficiently coagulated to prevent its escaping into the water. 1320. Hard-Boiled Eggs (CEufs Durs) Put the required number of eggs into a sauce- pan of boiling water, lowering them in carefully with a spoon to avoid breaking the shells. Allow the water to come to the boil again, and then boil the eggs exactly ten minutes. Then lift them out and plunge them at once into plenty of cold water, so that they may shell more easily. To shell them, tap the egg all round with the back of a knife, and the shell can easily be removed without damaging the white. Notes.—Eggs for hard boiling should not be put on in cold water, because the yolk would be inclined to fall to one side, which would spoil the appear- ance of the egg for many purposes. Do not roll the egg on the table to break the shell, as this is apt to loosen the yolk from the white, and do not overcook the eggs or the yolk will have a circle of green round it, which will give it the appearance of being old. Eor different ways of serving hard- boiled eggs, see p. 320. 1321. Poached Eggs (CEufs Poehes) Half fill a shallow saucepan with water and put it on the fire to boil. Add vinegar or lemon juice in the proportion of one tea-spoonful to one pint of water, and a good pinch of salt. When the water is gently simmering, break one egg into a cup, and from this slip it gently into the pan. Gather the white lightly together with a spoon, and pour some of the acidulated water over it. Repeat this with each egg, and let them cook for three minutes, or until the white is nicely set, without being hard. Lift each one out separately with a small fish slice or perforated spoon, and trim off any ragged edges of white, letting the egg drain over the pan. Place them on rounds of hot buttered toast, and arrange them symmetrically on a dish garnished with parsley, or serve them in any other way desired.