BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 551 some cases the paper is dusted over with a mixture of flour and sugar as well. Flat Tin Lined with Paper For Scones or Small Rock Cakes.—A flat baking sheet should be greased and sprinkled with flour; knock the edges of the tin on the table so that the flour coats it all lightly, and then shake off any that is superfluous. For Sponge Cakes.—Tie a double band of paper round the outside of the tin so as to project 2 or 3 inches over the edge at the top. Then coat the inside of the mould and the paper with melted clarified butter. This should be put on with a brush, and the butter should not be too liquid or the coating is apt to be too thin. Then pass through a sieve together one table-spoonful of flour and one table-spoonful of castor sugar, and dust the inside of the mould and paper over with this mixture. Turn the mould round and round until every part is coated, and then empty out what does not adhere. It is this preparation which gives the light dry coating to a sponge cake. Small Cake Tins.—Prepare these in the same way as a tin for a sponge cake by greasing them with clarified butter and dusting them out with a mixture of flour or potato flour and sugar. If two ounces each of flora and sugar are sieved together, the mixture may be kept in a tin, and will always be in readiness for the preparation of cake tins. Some cooks mix a small proportion of' cream of tartar with the flour and sugar, as it is supposed to prevent the two latter from burning. Small cake tins may often be filled more easily by means of a forcing bag and pipe. CHOICE AND PREPARATION OF VARIOUS MATERIALS USED IN CAKE-MAKING Flour.—Ordinary household flour or “ whites ” should be used in all the recipes except where otherwise stated. In the case of some of the very Flour Sifter light cakes, Vienna or Hungarian flour is preferable. It is very important to have the flour dry, as damp flour would render any cake heavy. If there is any doubt about the dryness it will be safer to warm the flour in a cool oven or on the rack above the stove before weighing and using it. Flour should be sieved for all cakes, as this not only renders it lighter, but keeps back any hard lumps it may contain. For sieving use either a very fine wire sieve or a patent flour sifter, which can be bought for about Is. 8d. Butter, Dripping, <&c.—Inferior or tainted butter should never be used for cakes. If butter is em- ployed at all it must be good, fresh butter being the best. In cases where the butter is rubbed into the flour, the butter should be as cool and firm as possible ; where it is to be creamed with the sugar it may be rather softer, but not on any account oily. If the butter is very salt it will be better to wash it in cold water, and dry it in a floured cloth before using. If the butter contains a large proportion of water it should be dried and squeezed in a floured cloth before using. For many of the plainer cakes, and especially when baking for large families, or where expense has to be considered, a cheaper kind of fat may be substituted for butter. Lard, beef dripping, margarine, or one of the different vegetable fats now on the market will generally answer the pur- pose. A good sweet margarine, costing about 8d. per lb., is always to be preferred to inferior butter, or a mixture of margarine and butter is very good. When beef dripping is used it must be carefully clarified to free it from any meat juice and any brown sediment scraped from it. For nursery cakes beef dripping or marrow is to be specially recommended. Mutton dripping is not so suitable for cake- making unless for gingerbread, as it has too strong a flavour. Sugar.—Take castor or sifted sugar for all the recipes except where otherwise stated, and always sieve it before use. Baking Powder.—There are many kinds and many qualities, but the best should always be chosen. It may be tested by putting a small quantity into a spoonful of water; if fresh it will effervesce, if it does not bubble it is spoilt. Baking powder can also be made at home (see p. 634). It should always be kept in an airtight tin box, and in a dry place. Eggs.—These must be fresh and good, but not necessarily new laid. Well-preserved eggs serve the purpose excellently. They should always be broken separately into a small cup or basin before adding them to any mixture. To Clean Currants.—Rub these on the top of a sieve with a little dry flour to clean them and re- move the stalks. Then drop them on a plate a few at a time to make sure there are no stones amongst them. If the currants are dirty they may be washed first in hot water, then dried in a cloth or a cool oven, and rolled in flour. This should be done some little time before the currants are re- quired, as they should be quite dry and cold before being added to the cake, otherwise they will spoil the mixture. To Clean Sultana Raisins.—Rub these on the top of a sieve with a little dry flour, and carefully remove all stalks. If very dirty they should be washed and dried like currants. To Prepare Valencia Raisins.—Remove the stalks, split them open with a small knife, and take out the stones, using a little warm water to