FISH 89 account of its great voracity. It is generally moderate in price. It may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking cod or hali- but, but is perhaps most satisfactory when baked or fried. ? 210. Hake Cutlets, Baked 1J lbs. hake. A little flour. I lb. bread-crumbs. i pt. fish stock. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. 1 tea-sp. chopped shal- lot. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Cut the hake in small slices about 1 inch thick and remove all skin and bone. Wipe the pieces and coat them lightly with flour. Then grease a pie dish or fireproof dish, and mix together the bread- crumbs, shallot, and parsley with a little pepper and salt. Sprinkle a little of the bread-crumb mix- ture into the dish first, then lay in a few pieces of fish on the top, and more bread-crumbs, &c., and continue until all is in, making the last layer bread-crumbs. Add the lemon juice to the fish stock, and porn? it round. Lay the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, basting the fish occasionally with the liquid. Note.—Milk and water may be used instead of the fish stock. Time to bake, J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 per- sons. 211. Hake with 3 small slices of hake. \ pt. fish stock. 2 table-sps. chopped onion. Piccalilli Sauce 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour. 2 table-sps. piccalilli. Trim and wipe the fish, making it as dry as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and when smoking hot put in the fish and fry the slices a minute or two on each side. Then lift them out. Put the chopped onion into the stewpan and fry it until lightly browned. Now add the rice flour and piccalilli, and mix them in until smooth. Pour in the fish stock, and stir until boiling. Then return the fish, cover the stewpan, and allow the contents to simmer slowly until the fish is quite tender. When ready, arrange the slices of fish neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and garnish with one or two sprigs of parsley. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 persons. Halibut (F16tan) A large flat fish, resembling the turbot in ap- pearance, but inferior in quality and flavour. It Halibut sometimes grows to an .enormous size. It is ob- tainable all the year round, but is best during the autumn and winter months. As the flesh is inclined to be woolly and tasteless, halibut must be care- fully cooked and served with a good sauce. Besides the recipes given below it may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cod or turbot. 212. Halibut Baked with Vinegar 1| lbs. halibut. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper. Salt. 1 gill vinegar. 1 gill water. 1 oz. butter. Wash the halibut, dry it, and cut it into pieces about 2 inches square, and free from skin and bone. Put the flour, pepper, and salt on to a plate, mix them together, and dip each piece of fish into this, coating them well. Grease a pie-dish or fireproof dish with a little of the butter, and place the pieces of fish neatly into it. Pour over them the vinegar and water, and put the rest of the butter in small pieces on the top. Wipe round the edges of the dish with a cloth, and bake in a moderate oven until the fish is done. Garnish the dish with one or two sprigs of parsley, and serve either hot or cold. Note.—Other kinds of white fish, such as cod, ling, hake, &c., can be cooked in the same way. Time, J to § hour to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 213. Halibut with Tomatoes (F16tan aux Tomates) 1£ lbs. halibut. 3 or 4 fresh tomatoes. 1 table-sp. flour. Pepper. Salt. Juice of J a lemon. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Wipe the halibut, and cut it into small neat pieces, free from skin and bone. Put the flour on to a plate, and coat each piece of fish lightly with it. Let the tomatoes soak in boiling water a minute or two, then lift them out, dry, and skin them. Put them on a plate and cut them in slices. Grease a fireproof dish with a little butter, lay in a few pieces of fish, and season with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Over these put some of the sliced tomato, then more fish and seasoning, and so on until all is in, making the last layer tomato. Sprinkle the bread-crumbs over the top, and lay on the butter in small pieces. Bake in a moderate oven until the fish is thoroughly cooked and browned nicely on the top. When ready, remove from the oven, and wipe round the edges of the dish. Garnish with parsley and serve hot. A little finely chopped onion or shallot may be added, if liked. Note.—Any other white fish may be prepared in the same way. Time, | to 1 hour to bake. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 214. Halibut with Cream Sauce (F16tan a la Creme) 1£ lbs. halibut. 1 oz. butter. Salt, white pepper. Lemon juice. Sauce. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 4 pt. seasoned milk or fish stock (see p. 78). 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Wash the fish, and cut it in slices about half an inch in thickness. Grease a baking tin with some of the butter, and lay the fish on it. Sprinkle with