340 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the bottom of a pie dish, and then lay in the giblets, seasoning them with more pepper and salt. Lay the bacon, cut in small pieces, on the top and pour in a little of the stock. Cover the pie with a good crust as directed on p. 337, and bake steadily until the meat is thoroughly cooked. When ready, pour in a little more stock through the hole in the top, decorate with parsley and serve hot. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 1459. Grouse Pie (PStS de Grouse) A brace of grouse. \ lb. beef steak. 1 oz. butter. J lb. fat bacon. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Chopped parsley and chopped shallot. Seasoning. Some game stock. Flaky or puff pastry. Prepare the grouse carefully and cut them in neat joints, removing the head and neck, the feet, and the ends of the wings. Cut the beef in small thin pieces and fry them a few minutes in the 1 oz. of butter. Then take a pie dish and place at the foot of it half the bacon cut in small pieces, then put in the beef, and season with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and shallot. Arrange the joints of game on the top of this and put some more of the seasoning, &c., over. Cut up the hard- boiled eggs and place them on the top and then cover with the remainder of the bacon. Pour in some good game stock, cover with flaky or puff pastry as directed on p. 337, and bake in a good oven. When the pie is cooked put the feet, well scalded and skinned, and if possible brushed over with a little glaze, in the hole in the top. Note.—Other game may be used in the same way. The addition of a few mushrooms would be an improvement to the pie. Sometimes the joints of game are fried brown in a little fat before being put into the pie dish. A little wine may be added to the gravy if wished. Time to cook, 1 £ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 8 or 9 persons. 1460. Meat and Potato Pie (Tinned Meat) 1 lb. tinned meat. 3 or 4 tomatoes. 1 cupful cooked haricot beans. Seasoning. Potato pastry. Any kind of tinned meat may be used, beef, mutton, rabbit, &c. Mince it, or cut it in small pieces, removing any superfluous fat, but keeping the sauce or jelly with which it is preserved. If the tomatoes are fresh, wipe them and cut them in thin slices, but if tinned, break them or mash them up with a spoon. The haricot beans must be well cooked, and if these are not cared for, cooked rice, or cooked macaroni cut in small pieces, may be used in their place. Then make some potato pastry (Re- cipe 1448), roll it out about | an inch in thickness and line a greased pie dish with it. Fill up with the meat, beans, and tomato, seasoning to taste. If the meat should be very dry, a little stock or gravy may also be added. Cover the pie with more potato pastry and make a hole in the centre. Brush over with a little milk or beaten egg, and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1461. Mutton Pie (Pate de Mouton) 1J lbs. mutton. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 shallot. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 4 or 5 parboiled potatoes 1 or 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. A little stock or water. Dripping crust or rough- puff pastry. Choose a piece of mutton without much bone or fat, wipe it and cut it in small pieces. Remove the skin and core from the kidneys and cut them in thin slices. Toss the meat and kidney in the flour and then sprinkle them with the chopped parsley, mushrooms, and shallot. Season with pepper and salt, and mix with the potatoes cut in slices. Put the mixture into a pie dish, piling it rather high in the centre, and pour in a little stock or water. Cover the pie with pastry according to directions given on p. 337, and bake in a good oven until sufficiently cooked. Note.—The mushrooms and shallot may be omitted and a little chopped onion added. A few slices of fresh tomato will give a nice flavour. Mutton by itself is rather greasy for a pie; the potatoes are put in to absorb some of this grease. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1462. Pigeon Pie (Pat6 de Pigeons) 2 or 3 pigeons. 1 lb. rump steak. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 table-sp. butter or dripping. Seasoning. £ lb. ham or bacon. 1 or 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A little stock. Flaky pastry. Clean and prepare the pigeons, removing the head and neck, and cut them in quarters right through the bones. Chop off the feet and reserve some of them for decorating the pie. Wipe the steak and cut it in small pieces, toss these pieces in flour and then brown them in hot butter or dripping in a frying pan. Lift out when ready, and put this browned meat at the foot of a pie dish that is large enough to hold all the ingredients and season with pepper and salt. Arrange the pieces of pigeon and the ham or bacon cut in small pieces on the top, sprinkling them with the chopped parsley and more pepper and salt. Pile the pieces of pigeon rather high in the centre of the dish and arrange the hard- boiled egg, cut in pieces, round. Pour in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of stock or water, and cover the pie with flaky or any other good crust, as directed on p. 337. Bake in a good oven. When the pie is ready, fill it up with a little more stock by means of a filler placed in the hole in the top. Stick 3 or 4 of the feet, which have been scalded, and dipped in a little glaze if possible, in the hole in the top, garnish with a little parsley, and serve hot or cold. Note.—Veal may be used in the pie instead of beef. The pigeons chosen must be as tender as possible. They are sometimes fried brown in a little fat before being put into the pie dish.. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons.