526 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2485. Sponge Cake and Nut Sandwiches Sponge cake. 1 table-sp. chopped nuts. \ gill double cream. A few drops of vanilla. Sugar. Whip the cream until thick, and mix in the chopped nuts. Sweeten to taste, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Spread this mixture rather thickly between thin shoes of sponge cake, trim neatly, and serve on a lace-edged paper. 2486. Strawberry Sandwiches Fresh strawberries. I Sponge cake. Sugar. I Clotted cream. Slice a few ripe strawberries with a silver knife, and dredge them with fine sugar. Then spread some slices of sponge cake or Madeira cake with clotted cream, and put a layer of strawberries on half the number of pieces. Cover with the re- maining pieces, and press them lightly together. Trim if necessary and serve on a lace-edged paper. These sandwiches must be made fresh and kept in a cool place. Note.—Other kinds of fresh fruit may be used in the same way. 2487. Wafer Sandwiches, 1 Wafer biscuits. | Sugar. Vanilla. Double cream. J Nuts or fruit. Use wafer biscuits the same as are sold for ices. Whip a small quantity of double cream until thick. sweeten it with castor sugar, flavour with a few drops of vanilla, and stir into it either some chopped nuts or some small pieces of fresh or preserved fruit. Then make sandwiches with this cream mixture and the wafer biscuits. They must be pressed very lightly together and only made a short time before serving. Cut them in two and serve them in a circle, one slightly overlapping the other. 2488. Wafer Sandwiches, 2 8 wafer biscuits. I 1 table-sp. castor sugar. 2 table-sps. desiccated 1 table-sp. marmalade. cocoanut. I Mix the cocoanut and sugar together, and moisten with the marmalade. Spread some of this paste between wafer biscuits, press them lightly together, and cut in two. Jam may be used instead of marmalade, and other chopped nuts instead of cocoanut. 2489. Walnut and Maple Sugar Sandwiches Walnuts. Maple sugar. Bread and butter. Take equal quantities of toasted and chopped walnuts and grated maple sugar, and mix them well together. Spread this mixture rather liber- ally between thin slices of bread and butter. Then trim and cut into fancy shapes. Serve on a lace- edged paper, and decorate with a few halves of walnut.