SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 197 Put the yolks and white of egg into a basin with the sugar, and mix them well together with a wooden spoon. Then pour the hot milk gradually on to them, stirring all the time, and mix thor- oughly. Return all to the saucepan and stir very carefully over the fire until the sauce thickens. On no account must it be allowed to boil, or it will curdle. Have ready at hand a clean basin and a strainer. As soon as the sauce shows signs of thickening, and it is almost boiling, remove the pan from the fire, continue stirring for a second or two, then strain into the basin. Add flavouring to taste. To keep the sauce warm, stand the basin containing it in a saucepan of hot, not boiling, water. Notes.—It is difficult to prescribe fixed quanti- ties for a custard sauce as so much depends on individual taste, some people liking it quite thick like cream, and others a sauce liquid enough to pour round the pudding. The above proportions will make a sauce of a medium consistency. A thicker sauce can be made by adding more yolks of eggs. The flavouring, too, may be varied ac- cording to taste ; vanilla is perhaps the favourite. If the vanilla-pod is used, and this is always the best, it should be allowed to infuse in the milk before the eggs are added. A bay-leaf can be used in the same way, and this will give the sauce an almond flavour. This custard forms the basis of a great many cold sweets and puddings, and also of ice creams. 795, Foam Sauce 2 whites of eggs. 1 gill boiling water. 2 oz. fresh butter. i gill sherry. 2 oz. sugar. Beat the butter to a cream in a basin and add the sugar finely sifted; they must be made very light and white. Add one white of egg and beat well with a small whisk, then add the second white and beat again. Just before serving stir in the boiling water and sherry, then stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water, and whisk until frothy. Serve at once. 796. Cold Fruit Sauce A very delicious fruit sauce may be made by preparing first some hard sauce (Recipe 803), and then adding to it about 2 table-spoonfuls of fruit pur4e, or a soft fresh fruit such as strawberries, raspberries, or peaches may be cut in small pieces and added to the hard sauce. Quite a variety of nice sauces can be made in this way. 797. Fruit Sauce for Game 1 lb. red plums or damsons. I lb. sugar. 1 inch cinnamon stick. 2 cloves. 2 table-sps. red-currant jelly. 1 glass port wine. 1^ oz. butter. Choose ripe plums and wash or wipe them care- fully. Put them into a lined or earthenware saucepan with the sugar, cloves, and cinnamon, but without any water, and stew them slowly until reduced to a pulp. Then rub the fruit through a fine sieve and return the puree to a clean saucepan. Add the red-currant jelly and port wine, bring to the boil and simmer a few minutes. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and add the butter in small pieces. Do not boil again after the butter is added. This sauce may be used either hot or cold. 798. Fruit Pur6e Sauce Almost any fruit puree may be used as a sauce. The puree is made by rubbing tinned fruit, fresh fruit, or stewed fruit through a fine sieve. If very thick the puree should be thinned down to a proper consistency with water, fruit juice, or syrup, or a little fight wine. Sugar must be added to taste and a little colouring if necessary. This kind of sauce can be served either hot or cold. If hot, a little arrowroot, 1 tea-spoonful to £ pint, may be broken with cold water and boiled in the sauce to give it a thicker consistency, especially if the sauce is to be used for coating purposes. 799. Fruit Syrup Sauce i pt. fruit syrup. I Flavouring. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. | Colouring. The syrup from any tinned fruit wall make a very good sauce if it is thickened with arrowroot, or even cornflour or potato flour in the above proportion, and flavouring, &c., added. Take a heaped tea-spoonful of arrowroot and mix it smoothly with a little of the syrup. Put it into a small saucepan with the remainder of the syrup, and stir over the fire until- boiling. Add sugar if necessary, and flavour to taste with essence, lemon or orange juice, or -wine. A little colouring may also be added, according to the kind of syrup used. Serve hot or cold. 800. German Sauce 2 yolks of eggs. I 1 wine-glassful sherry. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a saucepan of slowly simmering water. Whisk the contents with a fork or small wire whisk Making German Sauce until thick and frothy, and serve at once. Do not boil, or they will curdle. Note.—A little cream may be added to the above ingredients if wished.