50 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Quantity, 2 pints. Quantity, 2 pints. Notes.—Broccoli may be used in the same way as cauliflower. Whole rice may be used for thicken- ing instead of tapioca, but it will require a longer time to cook. It must be well washed and put into the stock along with the cauliflower. Or it may be cooked separately and then added. Time to cook, J to 1 hour. Probable cost, 8d. to IOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 40. Celery Soup, Brown (Soupe au Ceteri) 1 large head of celery. 1 or 2 onions. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. A bunch of herbs. 2£ pts. second brown stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. Prepare the onions and cut them in thin slices, wash and brush the celery and cut it in shreds. Take about 1 cupful of the whitest shreds of the celery, put them into a small saucepan with boiling water to cover them and a little salt, and simmer slowly over the fire until tender. Then take a larger saucepan, melt in it the butter or fat and allow it to brown, put in the prepared onion and remainder of celery and stir them in the fat until (hey are lightly brown. Add the flour and brown that also. Next pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Carefully remove any scum and add the bunch of herbs and other seasoning to taste. Allow the soup to simmer slowly at least one hour, skim- ming when necessary. Then rub as much as pos- sible through a fine wire sieve and return to the saucepan to reheat. Add the shreds of celery which were cooked apart along with their liquid, sprinkle in the chopped parsley and serve very hot. Time to cook, 1£ hour. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, 2 pints. 41. Celery Soup, White (Soupe au Celeri) 1 large or 2 small heads of celery. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. A few parsley stalks. A small blade of mace. 2 pts. light stock. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour or cornflour. 1 oz. lean ham or a small ham bone. 1 yolk of egg. \ pt. milk. Seasoning. Wash and brush the celery, using the white part only, and cut it in shreds. Skin and slice the onion thinly and cut the ham in small pieces. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the prepared vegetables, parsley stalks, mace, bay-leaf, and ham, and stir them over the fire for 5 minutes without allowing them to brown. Add the stock and simmer all these for one hour at least until the celery is quite tender. The time will depend on the age of the celery. When ready, rub the soup through a fine wire or hair sieve. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Put the rice flour or cornflour into a basin, and add the milk to it gradually, mixrng until quite smooth. Pour this into the soup and stir until boiling. Cook 10 minutes longer and season to taste. Put the yolk of egg in the soup tureen and pour the soup gradu- ally on to it, stirring all the time. Serve with crofitons of toast or fried bread, or with “puffed” rice crisped in the oven. Notes.—The yolk of egg may be omitted if a plainer soup is wanted. A richer soup may be made by using 2 yolks of eggs and a gill of cream for thickening purposes instead of the flour and milk. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 42. Celery and Barley Soup 1 large cupful sirred celery. | large cupful chopped onion. 1 qt. light stock. Seasoning. 1 dessert-sp. Robinson’s “ Patent ” barley. I pt. milk. 1 egg- Clean some celery carefully and cut the stalks across in fine shreds. Then chop the required quantity of onion, or one or two leeks may be used instead. Put a quart of stock or meat boilings into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. Throw in the prepared vegetables and allow them to cook slowly until tender. Then mix the barley smoothly with the milk and add them to the soup. Stir until boiling, season to taste with white pepper and salt, and simmer about 10 minutes longer. Beat up the egg, put it in the soup tureen and pour the soup gradually on to it, stirring all the time. Notes.-—This is a particularly good soup, and one that is very easily made. The egg may be omitted and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream added. Time to cook, about £ hour. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 21- pints. 43. Chestnut Soup, Brown (Soupe aux Chataignes) 3 pts. brown stock. i 1 lb. chestnuts. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. | Seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan and allow it to brown slightly. Add the flour and brown it also. Pour in half the stock gradually and stir until boiling, then add the remainder and let the soup simmer for 10 minutes, removing any scum that may rise. Remove both the shell and inner skin from the chestnuts (see Recipe 1625) and add them to the soup. Allow them to cook from 20 to 30 minutes until soft, but not reduced to a pulp. Season to taste. Note.—A little wine may be added to this soup if liked. Time to cook, 40 minutes. Probable cost. Is. Gd. Quantity, 2£ pints. 44. Chestnut Soup, White (Soupe aux Chataignes) J lb. chestnuts (weighed after peeling). 1 qt. light stock. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. A small blade of mace. 6 white peppercorns. 1 oz. butter. A pt. milk. Salt. Wash the chestnuts, cut a small piece off the end of each, throw them into hot water and boil for 10 minutes. Then skin them and put them into a lined saucepan, with the butter, celery, and seasonings. Cook for a few minutes over the fire without allowing the contents of the saucepan to brown, add the stock and simmer for one hour or more until the chestnuts are quite tender. Then, rub as much as possible through a fine wire sieve, using the liquid part of the soup to moisten the chestnuts. Return the soup to the saucepan to reheat and add the milk. Boil for 10 minutes longer, or until the puree is quite smooth. If too thick, more stock or milk must be added. Serve with small crofltons of fried or toasted bread. Note.—The addition of a little cream is an im- provement to this soup. Time to cook, 1J hour. Probable cost, 10d. to Is.