THE KITCHEN, MARKETING, AND CARE OF FOOD 17 There are two kinds of kitchen stoves in common use, the open range and the closed range. The Open Range is not so general as it used to be, although it is still to be found in country places and in some of the provincial towns. The dis- advantages of this kind of stove are that one’s sphere of work is considerably limited, food runs the risk of being smoked, the saucepans have very hard wear, and become black and sooty, not to speak of the discomfort of having to stand over an open fire whilst doing the cooking. On the other hand, an open stove generally burns less fuel than a closed range; it makes a kitchen look brighter and more comfortable, and it is also better for ventilating purposes. As far as cooking is concerned, it is certainly best for roasting (a roast never tastes so well as when done on a spit or roasting jack in front of the fire), it is also good for broiling or grilling, but with these its merits end. The Closed Range, in which the fire is covered with an iron plate, is much easier to work with, and it also allows of greater scope in cooking, as the heat can be so much more easily regulated. There is an endless variety of closed ranges or kitcheners, all more or less similar, but going under different names. Improvements, too, are con- tinually being made in their structure. It is not always that one has any choice as regards the kitchen range, a tenant has simply to take what is provided by the landlord, but before renting a house it is important to see that the kitchen range is a good one and in thorough working order. When a stove has to be bought, choose one of a thoroughly reliable make, as simple in construction as possible, and of good sound material. Then have it well fitted up by workmen who really understand the business. There is never any economy in buy- ing a cheap stove, as it is almost bound to be made of a thin light metal, which wears out quickly, causing waste of fuel and many other annoyances. The best type of stove is usually convertible, that is, it can be made into an open range by the simple sliding back of the top, thus a cheerful fire can be arranged in the kitchen in the evening. It should also have an adjustable bottom, which can be raised or lowered according to the size of fire required. Thus, when the stove is not being used for cooking purposes the fire may still be kept in and the water warmed, but with a very small consumption of fuel. There should also be a well- ventilated oven, a good boiler and water-supply, and a plate rack on which to warm dishes. It is a good plan to have a light screen made, which can be hooked on to the front of the fire, as this serves as a great protection when anyone has to stand near the stove to stir a sauce or do other cooking. Understand the Stove.—Another matter of very great importance is that the working of the stove should be throughly understood—just as a work- man understands the machine or engine of which he is put in charge, so a cook ought to understand her cooking stove. If it does not heat or “ draw,” the mistress or servant should know the reason why, and not be ready to condemn the stove at once as being inefficient. The best way to really learn the working of a stove is to take it to pieces and to do the cleaning of it — to thoroughly examine the dampers and flues and see how they act and how the temperature can be re- gulated. A Flue is passage leading from the stove into the chimney. A large stove will have two or even three flues—one leading from the oven into the chimney, another from the fire itself, and another from the boiler or from a second oven. In large stoves the boiler is generally placed behind the stove. A Damper is a flat plate of metal which can be pushed back or pulled forward from the front of the stove and is used to close or partly close the flue passage and thus lessen the draught. When a damper is pulled outwards there will be a good draught, causing the fire to burn quickly, and a rush of hot air towards that flue. It never does to close all the dampers entirely, as there would be no outlet for the smoke—one of them at least must be half-way out. Hints on Using the Dampers.—When lighting the fire, pull out all the dampers until it has well burnt up, then push back those that are not necessary. To Heat the Boiler.—Pull the boiler damper out and keep the other dampers in. To Heat the Oven.—Pull out the oven damper and keep the boiler damper in. If it becomes too hot, push the damper half-way in. To Keep a Low Fire.—Push in all the dampers except one—generally the boiler damper—which leave out half-way; then make up the fire with cinders. The adjustable bottom should also be raised as high as possible. The Oven.—Besides its own special flue and damper to regulate the heat, an oven is usually provided with one or two ventilators, one opening into the flue and the other into the kitchen. The former is usually regulated by a little knob placed at the top of the oven, which if pulled out opens a small aperture in the side or back of the oven, thus giving ventilation into the flue. The latter, placed in the oven door, is as a rule covered with a sort of grating, which can be opened or closed at will by means of a sliding plate. When either of these ventilators is opened the temperature of the oven is lowered. For roasting especially, one, if not both of these ventilators must be kept open, to allow of the fumes of cooking being carried off. The Fuel.—It is very important to have the right kind of coal for the range in use. As a rule range nuts or cobbles are the best; these are small, and they fit into the stove without having to be broken up. Some people, however, find it more con- venient to buy the larger coal and make it serve for all the fires in the house. This is especially necessary where cellar accommodation is too small to allow of two different kinds being stored. In these circumstances the smaller pieces of coal should be used for the kitchen range, and sometimes they can be supplemented with a small quantity of coke, which burns well and is cheaper than coal. In no case should a cheap and dirty coal be bought for kitchen purposes, this is never an economy. It only produces a quantity of shale and ash, which no amount of poking will make into a clear and bright fire, and this is naturally a drawback to ail good cooking. It is always a mistake to choke up a kitchen stove with a lot of dust, except for the purpose of keeping a fire in at night or after the B