BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 555 The crispness of biscuits can sometimes be re- stored by reheating them in a moderate oven for a few minutes. WHAT TO DO WITH STALE CAKES AND BISCUITS Many nice puddings and sweets may be made out of the remains of stale cake and broken biscuits. Small pieces of white cake, such as sponge and Madeira cake, if too small for other purposes, can be made into crumbs by rubbing them through a wire sieve, and these can be used instead of bread- crumbs for many sweet dishes. The same can "be done with the remains of plain biscuits. These crumbs will even keep for some time if they are first dried in a slow oven and then stored in a jar with a tight-fitting lid. Larger pieces of cake can be used for making trifles and various puddings. In fact they may take the place of bread in many instances. It is gener- ally better to soak these pieces first with a little wine, fruit syrup or juice, or even milk. Fruit cake soaked in hot milk, then mashed up and one or two beaten eggs added, will make quite a nice plain plum pudding 2 steamed in a basin. Cakes made with yeast or dough cakes do not lend themselves so well for this purpose, although tea cakes and plain buns make an excellent pudding. PART I BREAD, SCONES, AND TEA CAKES 2646. Household Bread 3J lbs. flour (| stone). 1 oz. German yeast. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 2 tea-sps. salt. About 2 pts. lukewarm water. Sieve the flour and salt into a large basin, and place it in a cool oven, or some other warm place, to get warmed through, as this will assist the rising of the bread. Put the yeast into a smaller basin with the sugar, and mix these two together until they become smooth and liquid. (This is called creaming the yeast, and may be accomplished with either salt or sugar.) Add half the water to the creamed yeast, and mix well together. Make a well in the centre of the warm flour, and strain in the yeast and water. Stir in gradually from the sides enough flour to form a thick and smooth batter, still leaving a wall of flour round the edges. Sprinkle the surface lightly with flour, cover the basin with a double cloth, and set it in a warm place out of a draught until the sponge (mixture of flour, yeast, and water) is well risen. If the yeast is good, fif- teen or twenty minutes will be sufficient; the batter should then be covered with large bubbles. Mix in the rest of the flour by degrees, adding the rest of the lukewarm water, or enough to form rather a soft dough, as it will become firmer with kneading. Dough that is to be baked in tins may be a little softer than that which is made up in special shapes without support. Turn the dough on to a floured board, and knead well for fifteen minutes, or until it ceases to cling to the hands. Then flour the basin, and put the dough back into it, making a deep cross cut on the top from side to side with a sharp knife. Cover the basin, and let it stand in a warm place again for about one hour, or until the dough is well risen. It should be about twice its original size, and the cut on the top almost invisible. Turn out again on the board, re-knead lightly, and make up into loaves the size and shape desired. For a cottage loaf make one large ball with a smaller one on the top. Press a floured finger through the middle of both, and make four or five cuts at regular intervals round the sides. For a Coburg loaf form the dough into an oval shape, and make several deep cuts across the top. If the loaves are to be baked in tins, grease the tins first, and do not more than half fill them. After shaping the loaves, place them on a baking sheet (greased and floured for the loaves that are not in tins), and set them to prove for fifteen or twenty minutes. That is, place them again in a warm place to rise—on the rack above the fire is a very good place. The bread should be covered with a cloth or piece of paper, to prevent any smuts from falling on it. To bake the bread, place it in a hot oven to begin with until the loaves are well risen and slightly browned, then in a more moderate oven until they are cooked through to the middle. If an oven thermometer is used, 350° Fahr. will be about a right degree of heat to begin with. The time will depend on the size of the loaf. If the above quantities are made into two loaves they will take from 1 to 1£ hour to bake. When ready, the bread should give a hollow sound when tapped on the bottom ; it must on no account be underbaked. Directly the bread is taken from the oven, it should be turned on its side to allow the steam to escape. It must be quite cold before it is stored away. Probable cost, 8d. Notes.—There are different ways of making bread, but the above method is perhaps one of the simplest for a beginner. It is somewhat difficult to give exact rules as regards quantities and time, as these are bound to vary according to the material used and the prevailing conditions, but after one or two trials, the careful worker will soon learn to judge what is best, and be successful in producing a good batch of bread. 2647. Steamed Bread Make the dough according to directions given above, and half fill well-greased tins. Cover with greased paper, and steam in the same way as a pudding. Care must be taken that the water does not enter the tin. The time will depend on the size and thickness of the loaf, but it may be tested with a hot skewer ; 2 sufficiently cooked the skewer will come out dry. The bread may be put in a hot oven for a few minutes after removing it from the tin, to brown the outside.