COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 270 hot in the oven and then turn out on the dish on which the kidneys have to be served. Skin the kidneys, cut them in halves and remove the hard fat from the centre. Season them with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and then saute them in the butter until sufficiently cooked. When ready, lift them out and keep them warm. Pour the wine into the saucepan in which the kidneys were cooked, and allow it to reduce to half the quantity. Moisten with the stock mixed with the flour, stir until boiling, and add any juice which has run from the kidneys. To Serve.—Arrange the kidneys in a circle on the top of the rice and strain the sauce over and round. 1109. Cassolettes of Kidney (Cassolettes de Rognons) 3 sheep’s kidneys. 5 or 6 mushrooms. 1 shallot. 1 oz. butter. 1 gill brown sauce. \ glass sherry. Seasoning. 5 or 6 potato cases. To Prepare the Mixture.—Halve the kidneys, remove the skin and hard fat from the centre, and cut them in small pieces. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the shallot finely chopped, and cook it a few minutes. Trim the mushrooms and cut them in pieces, add them to the butter and shallot along with the kidney, and cook a few minutes longer. Then pour in the brown sauce and sherry and simmer slowly for J hour. Add a squeeze of lemon juice and more seasoning if necessary. To Finish.—Prepare about half a dozen small potato cases (see Recipe 544), fill them with the kidney mixture, and put the lids on the top. Serve on a hot entree dish with a dish paper under them and garnish with parsley. Note.—Batter or pastry cases may be used instead of those made of potato. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1110. Ox Palates a 1’Espagnole (Palais de Bceuf a l’Espagnole) 2 or 3 ox palates. I Green peas or asparagus \ pt. Espagnole sauce. | points. A border of potatoes. I Prepare the palates as directed in Recipe 873, and stew them in stock until tender. Press them between two plates until cold, and then stamp them in rounds the size of a five-shilling piece. Make these hot in the Espagnole sauce (Recipe 670), and then arrange them round a border of mashed potato. Pour the sauce over and round, and fill the centre with nicely cooked green peas or as- paragus points. Note.—The palates may be served in the same way with any other suitable'sauce, tomato, piquante, Italian, &c., an appropriate vegetable being used as a garnish. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. lilt 3 ox palates. Stock, 1 glass sherry. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Coralline pepper. Palais de Boeuf a ITtalienne J lb. macaroni. 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese. 2 oz. butter. Cayenne and salt. Prepare the palates as directed in Recipe 873, and stew them in stock until tender. Press them between two plates until cold and then cut the best part of them in slices about 2 inches long and \ inch wide. Put these pieces into a small stewpan with about 1 gill of the stock in which the palates were cooked and the glass of sherry. Simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Meanwhile cook the maca- roni and cut it into convenient-sized pieces. Re- heat it in a saucepan with the butter and cheese, and season rather highly with cayenne pepper and salt. Pile this in the centre of a hot entree dish, and arrange the pieces of ox palate round. Sprinkle lightly with some very finely chopped parsley and coralline pepper, and serve the gravy in which the palates were simmered separately in a sauce boat. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1112. Braised Sweetbread with Green Peas (Ris de Veau aux Petits Pois) 1 large sweetbread. Flavouring vegetables. £ pt. stock. A bunch of herbs. Trimmings of bacon. A crouton of bread. Tomato sauce. Green pea puree. Prepare and blanch the sweetbread as directed on p. 242, and press it between two plates until cold. Place a few trimmings of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, then cut up a small quantity of carrot, turnip, and onion, and lay them on the top. Nearly cover these with good stock, add seasoning and a small bunch of herbs, and bring all to the boil. Wrap the sweetbread in greased paper, and lay it on the top of the vegetables; cover with a tight-fitting lid, and cook by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until tender. Baste occasionally with the stock, adding more if neces- sary. Meanwhile cut a crouton of bread large enough to hold the sweetbread, fry it until lightly browned and lay it on a hot dish. When the sweetbread is tender, lay it on the top and brush it over with liquid glaze, made from the stock, strained and very much reduced. Put some green pea puree (Recipe 499) into a forcing bag with a rose pipe and force it out prettily on the sides of the sweetbread in order to cover the crouton of bread. Then pour tomato or any other suitable sauce round. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1113. Larded Sweetbread with Mushrooms (Ris de Veau aux Champignons) braising. A crouton of bread. \ pt. mushroom sauce. 1 large heart sweet- bread. Larding bacon. Vegetables and stock for Prepare and blanch the sweetbread as directed on p. 242, and press it between two plates until cold. Then lard it on the best side with thin strips of larding bacon. The larding needle used must not be too thick, and four or five rows of lardoons will be sufficient (see Larding, p. 205). Then braise the sweetbread (as in last recipe). Meanwhile prepare some good mushroom sauce and keep it warm. When the sweetbread is tender, remove it from the saucepan in which it was braised, place it on a tin, and put it in the oven just long enough to brown the lardoons of bacon. Reduce the stock in which the sweetbread was cooked until it is a thick glaze, and brush this over the sweetbread.