COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 414 sugared paper, and folded over like an omelet with a little hot jam in the centre. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1834. Baked Fruit Puddings Make in the same way as Boiled Fruit Puddings (Recipe 1771), using either suet pastry or short crust and fruit, acording to season. The basin or mould containing the pudding should be covered with greased paper. Make a hole on the top, through both paper and pastry, place the pudding on a baking tin and bako in a good moderate oven. The time for baking will depend partly upon the kind of fruit used, and also upon the thickness of the pastry. It will take rather a shorter time to bake than to boil. From If to 2 hours will generally be found sufficient for a pudding of If pints. When ready, turn out on a hot dish and sprinkle with sugar. To give the pudding a caramelled appearance when turned out, the mould may be coated with brown sugar after greasing. 1835. A Grateful Pudding f lb. flour. £ lb. bread-crumbs. 3 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. butter. 2 eggs. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-cupful currants. 1 tea-cupful sultanas. 2 oz. candied peel. 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. Pour the milk hot over the bread-crumbs, and let them soak whilst preparing the other ingredients. Put the butter and sugar into a basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Add the yolks of eggs and flour by degrees, then the fruit carefully cleaned and prepared, the soaked bread-crumbs, and ground ginger. Mix all together and, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a steady oven until firm to the touch and nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve with jam sauce (Recipe 804). Time to bake, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 1836. General Satisfaction Pudding Short crust, f pt. custard. 2 sponge cakes. 1 glass sherry. 2 table-sps. jam. 2 or 3 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. Cherries and angelica. Line a pie dish with pastry, put in dummies and bake in a moderate oven (see p. 409). While it is cooking make f pint custard (Recipe 794); split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, and soak them in the sherry. When the pastry is cooked, remove the dummies, and place the soaked sponge cakes at the bottom of the dish. Pour the custard over, and soak for a few minutes. Mean- while, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir in the castor sugar sieved. Pile this meringue on the top of the pudding, decorate prettily with small pieces of cherry and lozenge- shaped pieces of angelica, sprinkle with sugar, and put the pudding in a slow oven until the meringue is crisp and lightly browned. Serve hot or cold. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 1?. 2d. to Is. 4d. 1837. Indian Pudding 1 tea-sp. ground ginger. 2 eggs. Short crust. 2 sponge cakes. 1 oz. butter. 4 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. sugar. Line a small pie dish with short crust as directed on p. 409. Break the sponge cakes into a basin, boil the milk and pour it over them. Add the sugar, butter, and ginger, and allow all to soak a few minutes. Then stir in the eggs well beaten, and pour the mixture into the prepared dish. Bake in a moderate oven until firm to the touch and lightly browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot with ginger sauce (Recipe 801). Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, lOd. 1838. Baked Jam Pudding 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. sugar. 3 oz. suet. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Grated lemon rind. 1 egg. 1 tea-cupful milk. 2 table-sps. jam. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and add the suet finely chopped and the grated rind of one lemon. Mix together, and make a well in the centre. Add the egg well beaten and mix again, adding the milk by degrees. Grease a pie dish or mould and put the jam at the bottom. Pour the mixture on the top, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out on a dish and serve hot. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1839. Baked Lemon 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 1 lemon. 2 eggs. Pudding (Pouding au Citron) 2 oz. bread or cake crumbs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. Some scraps of pastry. Line a pie dish with pastry according to direc- tions given on p. 409, or, if a simpler pudding is wanted, this may be omitted. To Make the Mixture.—Grate the rind off the lemon and rub it into the sugar. Cream the butter in a basin and add the lemon sugar to it. Add one egg and half the crumbs and beat well, then the second egg and the remainder of the crumbs. Strain in the lemon juice, add the baking powder free from lumps, and mix again. Put this mixture into the prepared pie dish, put a few leaves or fancy-shaped pieces of pastry on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Notes.—If liked, a little jam may be put at the bottom of the dish before pouring in the mixture. If preferred, the pudding may be made on a flat dish instead of a pie dish. Time to bake, £ to £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1840, 3 sponge cakes. 2 table-sps. jam. 3 table-sps. wane fruit syrup. Marlborough Pudding 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar, or 2 eggs. A few drops vanilla. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, cut them in pieces, and lay them in a greased