VEGETABLES AND SALADS 157 Toss them over, so that the salt mixes properly with them, and allow them to dry for a few minutes in a warm place. Serve as hot as possible. Note.—There are many different varieties of fried potatoes, the name altering according to the manner in which they are cut. Different cutters are also sold, which make the preparation a very simple one. The following are a few of the best known varieties of fried potatoes. Potato Chips.—Cut the potatoes into thin slices, then across into chips or strips. Make them very dry in a towel, then fry as above. When the strips are cut very finely they are known as Pommes AUumettes. Potato Ribbons.—Cut the potatoes in slices about $ inch in thickness. Then take one slice at a time and with a small sharp knife peel slowly round and round it, cutting the ribbons so thin that the knife can be seen through them, and making them as long as possible. Keep them lying on a cloth until it is time to cook them, the drier they are the more easily they will fry. Some of them may be tied into bows and knots. Fry as above to a golden brown colour. Saratoga Potatoes.—Wash and peel the potatoes and cut them across into very thin and even slices. A cutter is very often used for these. Fry them until brown and crisp. While frying they will require to be stirred about from time to time as the slices will be inclined to stick together. Potato Straws (Pommes Pailles).—Cut the potatoes into thin shreds, like a straw and as long as possible. Fry them a very pretty brown colour. These are very good served with roast game, or they are sometimes made up in the form of a nest and used for the serving of different entrees. Note.—Fried potatoes can be kept for some days if they are put in an air-tight box. They can then be warmed up as required. 540. New Potatoes, 1 lb. new potatoes. Boiling water. Salt. To Boil or Steam 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A spray of mint. 1 oz. butter. New potatoes should be cooked as soon as possible after they are taken from the ground. Wash them well and rub or scrape off the skins. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water to cover them, a little salt and a spray of mint. Allow them to cook gently from 15 to 20 minutes, or until they are nearly tender. Then drain off every drop of water and lift out the mint. Shake the potatoes over the fire for a few minutes to dry them, then add the butter and let them cook a few minutes longer. Sprinkle the parsley over at the last and serve very hot. Time to cook, 20 to 25 minutes. 541. Potatoes with Bacon (Pommes de Terre au Lard) 4 or 5 potatoes. 2 oz. bacon. \ pt. stock. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. Pepper and salt. Cut the bacon in small square pieces and fry it a few minutes in a stewpan. Prepare the potatoes and cut them in quarters or small pieces, add them to the bacon and season with pepper, salt if necessary, and a pinch of nutmeg. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to cook for a few minutes without browning. Then add the stock and simmer slowly until the potatoes are tender. Sprinkle in the parsley and serve very hot. Note.—A little chopped onion and some finely powdered herbs may be added if wished. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 542. Potato Balls (Croquettes de Pommes de Terre) £ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter or dripping. Salt, pepper. 1 yolk of egg. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, or press them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and put the sieved potato into it. Season with white pepper and salt and add one yolk of egg, or half a whole egg well beaten (the other half may be used for egging and bread-crumbing). Mix all well together, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Then flour the hands slightly and roll the mixture into small Potato Croquettes in different shapes balls of equal size and free from cracks. Egg and bread-crumb these balls (see p. 249), and fry them until nicely browned in boiling fat (see p. 248). Do not put too many into the fat at one time, or they will cool down the fat so much that it will soak into them and cause them to burst. After frying, drain well on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with parsley. Note.—This mixture may be made into different shapes, such as cutlets, cones, small rolls, &c, A