MENUS AND THEIR CONSTRUCTION When giving a dinner or luncheon, the first thing one does is to draw out the menu or bill of fare. Thi3 is not always such an easy task as it would appear, especially if the meal has to consist of several courses ; and it requires some skill and experience to do it properly. A well-balanced and suitably chosen menu will add considerably to the success and popularity of a meal; while one that is badly planned will spoil the best served repast. It is therefore well worth while to give a due amount of thought to the selection of the dishes, and whether the meal has to be a simple one, or of a more important and formal character, there are several important points to bear in mind in its arrangement. The scope of this book does not permit of any lengthy list of menus, yet by the application of the follow- ing general rules, along witn a little ingenuity and originality, many dainty and successful dinners should be easily provided by its readers. FIRST CONSIDERATIONS The Style of Dinner.—Consideration should first be given to the kind of meal required, to the number of the guests, and the occasion of the dinner. The social position of the host and hostess should also be borne in mind, as well as the means at disposal. A long course dinner with all its formalities should never be attempted by those who keep only one or two servants, it should only be served in the houses of the wealthy. Of course it is always possible to have a certain number of dishes sent in from a caterer, but this is not only more expen- sive, it is never the same as having good cooking nicely done at home. Hired waiters and waitresses can also be employed, but formality of this sort is never so enjoyable, as a more simply served repast. Fortunately for most of us, simple dinners are now the fashion, and it is even considered bad taste to offer a long and heavy meal of double courses. The time spent at table should not exceed from 1 to 1£ hours. The rules of service are not nearly so rigid as they used to be; one can assume greater freedom of action as regards the dishes given, and the order in which they are served, so long as they follow each other harmoniously. Success depends largely on having the dishes well cooked and properly served, sufficient in quantity, and, above all, of the best quality. A few choice dishes, carefully selected to suit the tastes of the guests, will give infinitely more pleasure than an elaborate spread of indifferent quality. The Season of the Year.—It is always well to select foods that are in season, as the standard fare at the time of year is nearly always the best. Although many articles, such as vegetables, fruit, and fish, can be had out of their proper season, it must be remembered that an exorbitant price will likely be asked for them, and even at that, they will in all probability be lacking in flavour. In cold weather, too, a larger number of hot dishes should be given than in summer, when foods that are cooling and refreshing are more appreciated. Variety,—Even at the simple family meal an effort should be made to vary the dishes from day to day, and to escape monotony, while at the more formal dinner, the combination of dishes should be well assorted and care taken to avoid repetition, as regards material, mode of prepara- tion, colour, taste, and garnish. There should be variety in flavour, and the dishes should follow each other in such a way as will please the palate. An insipid dish should not directly follow one that is very tasty, and the same flavouring should not be repeated in two conse- cutive dishes. If two or three different entries are served, the most savoury one should come last. There should also be variety in the method of cooking, and in the character of the different dishes. It would not do for fried cutlets to follow fried fish, for instance, nor for two grills, or two pastry dishes, to come together. A simple dish should be followed by one that is a little more elaborate, or vice versa. And finally, there should be variety in colour and decoration. Although the dishes should be made pleasing to the eye as well as to the palate, there should be no sameness and an element of refinement should mark them rather than osten- tation. The Cook.—The powers of the cook and the capabilities of the kitchen range and cooking utensils should be thought of when arranging a dinner. If the cook is single-handed, do not give her many complicated dishes to prepare, especially of a kind that cannot be finished off until the moment of serving, as this would be sure to lead to confusion in the kitchen. Try rather to give her one or two dishes, among the number, that can bo well advanced beforehand, and cause little trouble at the time of dinner. Above all, give the cook fair notice and explicit directions as to what will be required, if a special dinner has to be arranged for. The materials necessary should also be ordered in good time to enable her to get well ahead with her preparations, and be saved unnecessary hurry at the last minute.