SOME MORE ELABORATE MEAT DISHES 265 on an entree dish with some pretty green salad in the centre. Note.—If the fancy shaped pieces of truffle are cut first, the trimmings may be chopped and added to the mixture. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1089. Moussaka a la Turque 4 aubergines or egg plants. J lb. cooked mutton. 1 onion. I oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A little stock or gravy. 1 table-sp. tomato puree 2 or 3 eggs. Seasoning. Tomato sauce. First Prepare the Aubergines.—Trim off the stalks and the hard part from the ends, and split them in two lengthwise. Then, with a small pointed knife, ease the centre part away from the skin to the depth of about half an inch, and score the inside across several times. Now sprinkle the aubergines with salt and, if time permits, let them stand half an hour to allow the water to exude. Wipe them dry and fry them in boiling fat, until the insides are cooked. Then drain them, remove all the inside part and chop it finely, and reserve the skins. To Make the Mixture.—Take some well-cooked and nicely-flavoured mutton, trim it, pass it through a mincing machine, and then weigh it. Put it into a basin and add to it the onion finely minced and cooked for a few minutes in butter, the chopped parsley, the inside part of the auber- gines and seasoning to taste. Mix well and moisten with the eggs well beaten, the tomato puree or sauce, and a little stock or gravy. To Finish.—Take a plain mould and line it entirely with the skins from the aubergines, putting the dark side next the mould. No butter is re- quired, as the skins are already greasy. Fill up with the mixture and cover over with any super- fluous length of skin. Cover with greased paper, and cook in the oven with a little water round the mould until the mixture is thoroughly cooked about 35 minutes. When ready, turn out and serve with thin tomato sauce poured round. Serve plainly boiled rice separately. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1090. Cutlets of Veal with Spinach (Cdtes de Veau aux Epinards) 4 or 5 veal cutlets. A little butter. Seasoning. A crouton of bread. Cooked spinach. Sauce Madere or Borde- laise. Choose the cutlets from the best end of the neck, with a bone in each, and trim them in the same way as directed for Mutton Cutlets (see p. 229). Season them with pepper and salt, and dip them in salad oil or melted butter. Then broil or grill them until thoroughly cooked, and place a paper frill on the bone of each. Have ready some nicely cooked spinach, and pile it up on a round crouton of fried bread in the centre of a dish. Place the veal cutlets round, and serve Sauce Madere or Bordelaise separately. Notes.—The cutlets may be egged and bread- crumbed and fried, if preferred. A small quantity of finely chopped lemon rind and powdered herbs should be mixed with the bread-crumbs. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Cutlets of Veal with Spinach Escalopes and Grenadins of Veal These are small fleshy pieces of veal cut from the fillet or cushion. They may be made either round or oval in shape. An escalope is usually cut rather thin, then egged and bread-crumbed and grilled or sauted in butter. A grenadin is cut thicker than an escalope, and is generally larded and braised. Both may be served with a variety of sauces and garnishes. 1091. Escalopes de Veau aux Champignons 1 lb. fillet of veal. Egg and bread-climbs. Chopped ham. Lemon rind. Seasoning. Croutons of bread. Savoury butter. Ragout of mushrooms. Sauce demi-glacc. To Prepare the Veal.—Slice the veal and beat it out with a wet cutlet bat to § inch in thickness. Cut small round cutlets or escalopes from this, from to 3 inches in diameter. Season these with pepper and salt, brush them over with beaten egg and toss in fine bread-crumbs, with which a little finely chopped ham and grated lemon rind have been mixed. Re-shape the escalopes, making them as smooth and neat as possible. Fry them in butter until a golden brown colour on both sides, and thoroughly cooked. Drain on kitchen paper until free from grease. Sauce and Garnish.—Prepare as many fried croutons of bread as there are escalopes, and coat them with some anchovy, shrimp, or other savoury butter. Have ready also a ragout of mushrooms (Recipe 516) or some nicely-grilled mushrooms and some sauce demi-glace. To Serve.—Place the escalopes on the top of the croutons of bread, and decorate them with some of the same savoury butter put through a little paper cornet. Arrange these in a circle on a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre and pour the sauce round. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1092. Escalopes de Veau a la Talleyrand 1 lb. fillet of veal. 6 or 8 button mush- rooms. 2 shallots. 1 table-sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill white sauce. Wipe the veal with a damp cloth, and cut it into neat round pieces, as much one size and shape as 2 yolks of eggs. 1 oz. butter. A squeeze of lemon juice A potato border. Croutons of pastry or fried bread.