POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 285 To Prepare the Chestnuts.—First roast them as directed in Recipe 1625, and when nearly tender remove the shells and under skin. Then put the chestnuts into a saucepan with brown stock to cover them, a tea-spoonful of sugar and a little salt. Allow them to cook until the stock is re- duced and the chestnuts are nicely glazed. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 1164. Cassoulet a la Toulousalne £ pt. haricot beans. 2 onions. £ lb. ham. I lb. smoked sausage. 1 gill tomato puree. Remains of cooked goose. Some goose fat. Salt and pepper. A few bread-crumbs. Soak and cook the haricot beans as directed in Recipe 613. Chop the onions, put them into a saucepan with a little of the fat from the goose, and cook them over the fire until they become slightly brown. Add to them the puree of tomatoes or some tomato sauce, then the haricot beans along with some of the water in which they were cooked. Season well with pepper and salt, and simmer for a few minutes over the fire. Put the piece of ham or lean bacon into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bring it to the boil and simmer a few minutes. Then remove it from the water and cut it in small pieces. Cut the sausage also in slices but leave it raw. Cut some remains of goose into neat joints. Now take a fireproof terrine and put into it half the haricot bean mix- ture. On the top of this arrange the pieces of goose, ham, and sausage, and pour the remainder of the haricot beans over. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs on the top, and then a little melted fat. Bake in a moderate oven and serve in the terrine. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. cool place. A few joints may be taken from the jar as required, the remainder being carefully covered with the grease. The joints of goose are generally reheated in a little bouillon with vege- tables, or used as in last recipe. Guinea-fowl (Pintade) The guinea-fowl is a domestic bird and lives in the barnyard with other poultry. Its plumage is dark grey with white spots and the flesh is darker in colour than the ordinary fowl. It really belongs to the pheasant family, and somewhat resembles Guinea-fowl that bird in taste, only the flesh is inclined to be dry. Guinea-fowl is very often served in place of game when the latter is out of season. It may be cooked according to almost any of the recipes given for fowl or pheasant. 1166. Roast Guinea-fowl (Pintade Rotie) Follow directions given for Roast Fowl (Recipe 1126). As the flesh is inclined to be dry, the breast is very often larded; it must in any case be well covered with bacon, and the basting must be well attended to. Oyster or celery sauce may be served separately. Time to roast, f to 1 hour. 1165. Preserved Goose (Confit d’Oies) Fat Geese. This is made in countries where geese are fattened up for foie gras. It is an excellent method of preserving the geese for winter use. Clean and empty the birds and take from them all the soft fat. Melt the grease slowly over the fire and then strain It into a large saucepan. Cut the geese into four or six pieces according tosize, and prick well through the skin, to allow the fat from the flesh to escape in the cooking. Put the pieces of goose into the melted fat in the saucepan, and allow them to cook slowly by the side of the fire until tender. The fat must not be allowed to become too hot, as the meat should poach only and not fry. When ready, lift out the pieces, spread them out on a dish and let them cool. When cold, put them into a large terrine or jar. Strain the grease carefully through a piece of muslin, leaving the meat juice at the foot of the saucepan, as this would prevent the fat from keeping. When the fat has cooled a little, but is still in a liquid condition, pour it over the pieces of goose, covering them entirely. There must be a good coating of fat on the top of the meat, to prevent the air entering Place the terrine or jar in a cool place and when the fat is firm, cover it with muslin. The confit d’oie will keep all winter if it is carefully prepared and stored in a 1167. Fricassee of Guinea-fowl (Fricassee de Pintade) 1 guinea-fowl. £ lb. fat bacon. 2 table-sps. flour. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 pt. water or stock. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. A squeeze of lemon juice 1 dessert-sp. red-Gurrant jelly. Forcemeat balls. Cut the guinea-fowl in smallneat joinis(see p.276), removing as much of the skin as possible and any unnecessary bone. Put 2 small table-spoonfuls of flour on to a plate, add a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and mix together. Dip the pieces of guinea-fowl into this and coat them well. Then cut the bacon in small thin strips, put it into a hot frying pan, and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to become too brown. Now lift it out, draining it from the gravy, and place it in a stewpan. Put the guinea-fowl, a few pieces at a time, into the hot bacon fat and fry them until brown on all sides. Then place them beside the pieces of bacon in the stewpan. Put any remain- ing flour into the frying pan, stir it until brown, pour in the stock or water, and continue to stir until boiling, rubbing down all browning from the sides of the pan. Strain the sauce over the guinea- fowl, &c., add the onion, red-currant jelly and lemon juice, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly