137 VEGETABLES AND SALADS is rich in both starch and sugar, and contains many valuable mineral salts. New carrots are the best for serving as a vege- table, but the older ones, if carefully cooked to soften their somewhat woody fibre, can be made into many palatable and tasty dishes. The red outside is the best part of the carrot, and this should not be wasted in the cleaning. Then mix the cornflour with the butter, add them to the carrots and stir until thoroughly mixed. Add a little pepper, cream, and parsley, cook a minute or two longer and serve. Note.—Stock may be used instead of water, and a little milk instead of the cream. A little chopped onion may be added. Time to stew, 1 to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 441. Carrot Croquettes 1 cupful cooked carrot. 1 oz. butter. 1J oz. flour. 1 gill milk. 1 yolk of egg. Salt. Pepper. | tea-sp. sugar. Egg and bread-crumbs. Choose nice red carrots and do not cook them too soft. Then grate the desired quantity. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and then the milk. Cook, stirring all the time, tintil-the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Now add the grated carrot, yolk of egg, and season- ing, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. When firm, form into small pear-shaped croquettes, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking. Egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat until brown. Stick a small piece of parsley stalk in the end of each to represent the stalk of the pear (see p. 157), dish the croquettes neatly and garnish with parsley. These are a good accompaniment to salt meat. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 439. Carrots with Parsley Sauce 3 or 4 carrots. | Salt. Boiling water. | \ pt. parsley sauce. To Prepare the Carrots.—Wash and brush the carrots in cold water, cutting off the green top. Then take clean cold water, and scrape them lightly from the thick end downwards, until all black is removed. The best part of the carrot is on the outside, so do not remove more than is necessary. Keep them in cold water until wanted. To Boil the Carrots.—Cut the carrots in convenient sized pieces, throw them into boiling salted water and boil them quickly with the lid on the saucepan until tender. Tho time required will depend on the age and size of the vegetable. When ready, drain, reserving the liquor. Put the carrots into a hot vegetable dish and keep them warm. Make a sauce according to Recipe 700, using some of the liquor from the carrots and some milk. (The rest of the liquor may be put into the stock pot or added to soup.) Pour the sauce over the carrots, coating the pieces well, and serve at once. Note.—New carrots may be served in the same way, but they should be left whole. 440. Carrots, To Stew (Carottes a I’Allemande) 3 carrots. 1 oz. butter. 1 £ pts. boiling water. 1 table-sp. chopped pars- ley. 1 tea-sp. cornflour. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Salt, pepper. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Prepare the carrots as in last recipe. Cut them in convenient sized pieces or slices (there should be about 3 cupfuls) and put them into a lined sauce- pan with the water, sugar, and salt. Put the lid on the pan and let them simmer slowly until tender. 442. Carrot Moulds (Cassolettes de Carottes) 2 carrots. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. flour. Seasoning. Prepare the carrots as in Recipe 439, cut them in pieces and cook them in boiling water or stock until quite tender. Drain them as dry as possible and rub them through a wire sieve. This pur6e should measure 1 breakfast-cupful. Season it to taste, add the flour and egg well beaten, and mix well. Grease 4 or 5 dariol moulds, fill them with the puree, cover with greased paper and steam until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully and serve a3 a garnish for a meat dish or as a dish by themselves with white, or parsley sauce poured round. Note.—The mixture may be steamed in one large mould if preferred and a few green peas used as a garnish. Time to steam, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 443. Carrot and Rice Stew 2 large red carrots. 1 tea-cupful rice. 2 oz. dripping or butter. 1 onion. Salt, pepper. 1 pt. water. A bunch of herbs. Prepare the carrots (see Recipe 439) and cut them in thin slices. Peel and slice the onion thinly and well wash the rice. Melt about 2 oz. dripping, butter, or other fat in a stewpan, put in the carrots and onion as dry as possible and fry them a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Then add the water, seasonings, and rice; put the lid on the pan, and stew all together until the carrots are tender. Stir the contents of the saucepan occa- sionally to prevent them sticking, and add more water if necessary. Before serving, lift out the