/ BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 553 Put the butter into a basin and beat it with a large wooden spoon, or the hand, until of a light creamy consistency. If over half a pound of butter is being used, it is quicker to take the hand. If the butter is very hard, the basin may be warmed slightly before commencing, but the butter must on no account be oiled, or it will make the cake heavy. This process requires some time, and un- less it is well carried out the cake will be heavy. The time will depend upon the quantity of butter used. When the butter is creamy, sieve the sugar on the top of it, and beat again for a few minutes. To Cream Yolks of Eggs and Sugar.—Castor Bugar is generally used for this purpose. Sieve it into a basin, and drop the yolks of eggs on the top. Then work the two together with a wooden spoon "»or wire whisk until they become a pale lemon colour, and quite light and frothy looking. This will require some little time. To Beat Eggs (Yolk and White Together).—If more than one egg is used, break them separately first into a small cup or basin to make sure that each one is fresh, then mix them together With a fork or egg whisk beat them lightly with an upward motion until they are light and frothy, and the whites and yolks thoroughly mixed together. Do not overbeat the eggs, or they will not be so light. To Whip the Whites of Eggs.—When only one or two are used put them on a flat dinner plate, being careful that none of the yolk falls in. Add a pinch of salt, and, with a dry broad-bladed knife or spatula, whip them with an upward motion to a stiff dry froth, or until they are so firm that the Whipping White of Egg plate can be turned upside down without the whites falling off. When more than two whites are used, put them in a dry basin with a pinch of salt, and beat them with a wire whisk until stiff enough to stand on the end of the whisk without dropping. There are also a number of patent whisks sold for beating eggs; directions for use are generally given with them. The whites of eggs ought to be beaten in a cool place, and if the eggs are fresh and cool, the beating will only take a few minutes. To Whip Cream.—Cream for whipping must be nice and thick and as cold as possible. Put it into a basin, and, if there is only a small quantity, beat it with a fork until it is stiff enough to stand on the fork without dropping off. For a larger quantity use a wire whisk instead of a fork. Stop beating the cream as soon as it becomes thick, otherwise it will turn into butter. Sugar and flavouring may then be added as required. THE BAKING OF CAKES This is one of the most difficult parts of cake- making. No matter how carefully the mixture has been prepared, the success or failure of the cake will very much depend upon the proper regulation of the heat of the oven. Ovens require very close observance; some are inclined to burn at the bottom, while in others the top is the hottest part, and it is only by experience and careful watching that the capabilities and faults of individual ovens can be learned. The most correct way of gauging the heat of an oven is with the thermometer. These are no longer the expensive articles they used to be : a very simple and yet efficient one can now be bought for the small sum of 2s. Gd., and will be found of invaluable service to the amateur cake-maker. The degrees of heat would be nearly the following : From 400° to 450° . . .a hot oven. 300° to 350° . . .a moderate oven. 250° to 275° . . .a slow oven. There are also one or two popular tests which may be applied by novices, such as the following : Sprinkle a little dry flour on a tin and place it in the oven. If there is sufficient heat to bake a cake, this will be brown in about 5 minutes. Or, put a piece of white paper in the oven, and if at the end of 5 minutes it is a good yellow colour, the heat is moderate and suitable for most cakes. After a very little experience the heat of the oven can easily be judged by simply feeling it with the hand. It is very important that the fire should be made up some little time before the cake is put into the oven, and in such a way that it will last, if possible, during the baking, or will not at least require fresh coal during the first hour of baking, while the cake is in process of rising, and when it is most essential for it to have steady heat. If a large cake requiring several hours’ cooking is in the oven, the fire should neve® be allowed to burn too low, except perhaps the last half hour when the cake is just “ soaking,” but a little coal should be added from time to time in order to keep up a uniform heat. The heat of the oven can generally be regulated by opening or shutting the damper. If shutting the damper is not sufficient to reduce the heat, the lid of the range over the oven may be opened a little way. If the oven does not become hot