275 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME fowl The system of “ wringing the neck ” is not to be recommended, an easier and more certain mode being to hold the bird by the legs and give it a very sharp blow at the back of the neck with a small but heavy stick. For the average poultry hand, who does not understand correct dislocation, perhaps the best way of all to bring about a merci- ful and instantaneous death is to pierce the brain with a knife. The bird must be hung up by the legs, the mouth opened, and the blade of a pen- knife thrust firmly through the back part of the roof of the mouth. An incision should be made in the neck, and the bird left hanging for a short time until the blood has drained out, if great whiteness of flesh is desired; but bleeding is not absolutely necessary. The best time to kill is the first thing in the morning before the early meal, as the intestines will then be free of food. A fast of not less than three hours is* absolutely necessary, or the birds will not keep well, and the flesh wifi lack firmness. PREPARATION OF POULTRY FOR TABLE The method of drawing and trussing poultry for roasting and boiling is not easily learnt from a book, a practical lesson on the subject would be of much greater value. In towns where birds are bought from a poulterer, they are usually sent home ready prepared for cooking, in fact, if it is preferred that they be delivered undrawn, the order must bo given accordingly. In country districts, however, this is not always the case, or where poultry (and sometimes living poultry) is sold in a market, or again when one has one’s own poultry-yard. Under such conditions the housewife will find herself very much at a loss if she has no knowledge of this important branch of the culinary art. To those, who must of necessity do the work at home, the following hints may be found helpfuL To Pluck and Singe Poultry If the plucking can be done while the bird Is still warm the feathers will come out more easily. Place the bird on a large sheet of newspaper and be careful not to do the plucking in a draught, or the feathers will fly about. Begin with the wings and legs, leaving the breast to the last, as the skin there is thinner and may easily be injured in appearance. Stiip the feathers off from the tail towards the head, giving them a backward pull, or if the flesh is very tender begin the opposite way. Use a small knife to remove the feathers from the wings, continue the plucking until every trace of feathers and stumps of feathers has been removed, and remember that singeing is not meant to remedy careless plucking. _ It is always better to pluck poultry dry. Some- times it is recommended to dip the bird in boiling water before commencing, but although this may simplify the process, it is not so good for the bird as it softens the flesh and makes it liable to tear; besides, scalded poultry spoils very quickly. Scald- ing should only be resorted to when one is in a hurry and the bird has to be cooked immediately. The points of the wings may sometimes bo dipped in boiling water without danger, when the feathers are found difficult to remove. After plucking there will always be some hairs left in the case of an old bird, and down on one that is young. These must always be singed off. Do this with a lighted taper, a well-twisted piece of paper, or over the jet of a gas stove. Go care- fully all over the bird, unfolding the wings so that they may be properly singed. Be careful while doing this not to blacken the skin. To Draw a Fowl Have in readiness a plate, pair of scissors, some scraps of paper, a basin of warm water, and a board to place the fowl on. Then turn the fowl on its breast, with the head lying towards you on the board. With a pair of scissors make a slit down the skin of the neck about 3 or 4 inches long. With a piece of paper take hold of the inside neck, draw it out and away from the skin, and with a sharp knife cut it off close to the body so that there is no stump left, and throw it into the basin of water. Cut off the head and some of the skin of the neck, leaving on 3 or 4 inches. Draw out the windpipe, and loosen the crop from the skin of the neck. (The crop is the bag of skin which lies close to the neck. It is- the digestive canal of the fowl, and continues right down into the gizzard, which is the bag of little stones found inside. These stones the fowl picks up and swallows, and they serve the purpose of teeth, helping to grind down the food.) Then turn the fowl on its back, still with the neck end towards you. Insert the first finger inside, and loosen all the inside, but draw nothing out at this end. Be careful not to break the gall bag, which lies in the liver, because if this were done the gall would give a bitter taste to the whole fowl; but keep the finger going.round as close to the bones as possible, and just breaking the little ligaments that attach the internal organs to the carcase. When all seems loose, turn to the other end of the fowl, and make a slit across the skin between the tail and the vent. Insert the first finger again, and loosen everything the same as at the other end, being careful not to make the hole too large. Then grasp the gizzard and draw everything out. Examine the inside of the bird by holding it up to the light and see that no part of the internal organs has been left. The heart and the lungs, a soft pinky-looking substance which lies close to the ribs, must not be forgotten. Remove any soft fat that may be left in the inside, especially at the vent and near the neck, and also cut away the oil bag which lies at the back of the rump or “ par- eon’s nose.” (This contains the oil with which the fowl oils its feathers, it frequently becomes rancid, and if left would give the fowl a bad taste.) Wipe the fowl with a damp cloth, first outside and then inside. If not clean with this, the water from the pipe may be quickly run through it, but on no account must the bird be put to soak in water, in fact the less it is wet the better. Keep the gizzard, cutting it open and removing the bag of stones from the inside, and the liver if it is good, removing the gall bag and any green parts from it. Wash these with the neck, remove any fat skin