VEGETABLES AND SALADS 151 the chopped parsley, and bind together with beaten egg. Divide the stuffing between the two lettuces, putting some into the centre of each, and tie them round with string or tape. Heat the dripping or bacon fat in a saucepan or fireproof dish, put in the lettuces, add the onion cut in thin slices, the bunch of herbs and a little stock. Cover with greased paper and a lid and cook the lettuces in a moderate oven or by the side of the fire until they are quite tender. When ready, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, removing the string. Reduce the liquid left from the cooking, or add a little more stock as necessary, and strain over the lettuces. Note.—Sausage meat or any other savoury stuffing may be used instead of the above. Time to cook, | to £ hour. Mushrooms (Champignons) The mushroom is not really a vegetable, but belongs to a family of plants called fungi. There are many different varieties of edible mushrooms, but great care should be taken in gathering them, as it requires some experience to distinguish them from the poisonous species. Field mush- rooms are very common in this country ; they are also largely cultivated, so that it is possible to obtain Mushrooms them all the year round. They must be used very fresh. A good mushroom is distinguished by its firm white stem, pink gills, fleshy top, and pleasant smell. When they are sodden and Dlack- looking they are no longer fit for food. Mush- rooms can be cooked and served in a variety of ways, but the more simply they are prepared the better, and it is always a mistake to add to them any powerful flavouring. They must never be overcooked, or they will harden. 510. Mushrooms, To Grill (Champignons grilles) Mushrooms. | Salad oil or melted butter. Pepper and salt. > Lemon juice. Choose large mushrooms of equal size. Peel them, and cut off the ends of the stalks. Wash in salted water, and dry thoroughly in a cloth. Slightly score the rounded side of the mushrooms and lay them on a deep plate. Sprinkle them with pepper and salt and pour some melted butter or salad oil over them. Let them lie for £ hour, basting them occasionally with the. oil or butter. Then lay them on a hot broiler, which has been brushed over with a little of the oil, and broil them over, or in front of a clear fire, or under the grill of a gas stove. The mushrooms should be turned once during the cooking. Serve them on small pieces of hot buttered toast and sprinkle a little lemon juice over each. Or, they may be served on a very hot dish without the toast with a small pat of maitre d’hotel butter (see Recipe 770) in the centre of each. Time to broil, about 10 minutes. 511. Mushrooms, To Bake (Champignons au Four) Mushrooms. | Seasoning. Butter. I Maitre d’hotel butter. Wash and peel the mushrooms, removing the stems, then dry them in a cloth. Place them in a greased baking dish with the hollow side upper- most and sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Lay some small pieces of butter on the top and bake in a moderate oven. Serve the mushrooms in the dish in which they were cooked and as hot as possible, and serve small pats of maitre d’hotel butter (see Recipe 770) separately. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. 512. Mushrooms au Gratin (Champignons au Gratin) £ lb. mushrooms. 1 oz. butter. 2 shallots. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. \ tea-sp. powdered herbs. 2 table-sps. bread-crumbs. £ glass white wine. Pepper, salt. A little butter. Peel the mushrooms and cut off the stalks. Wash them quickly in salted water, and dry thoroughly in a cloth. Chop the shallots finely and mix them with the parsley, herbs, and half the bread-crumbs. Grease a flat fireproof dish with a little butter and sprinkle over it half of the chopped ingredients. Place the mushrooms on the top, the stalk side uppermost, and season them with pepper and salt. Sprinkle the remainder of the chopped ingredients over and pour in the wine. Cover with the other half of the bread-crumbs, lay on some small pieces of butter and bake in a moderate oven. Serve in the same dish, garnishing with a few sprigs of parsley. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 513. Scalloped Mushrooms £ lb. mushrooms. £ oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 gill stock. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs A little butter. Remove the stalks from the mushrooms, peel them, wash them quickly in salted water, then dry them. Peel and wash the stalks, dry and chop them. Put the butter into a small saucepan and let it heat until it becomes brown, then add the flour and brown it also. Remove the pan to the side of the fire and pour in the stock ; return to the fire and stir until boiling. Add the chopped stalks of the mushrooms and reduce the sauce to one-half. Add parsley and seasoning. Turn this sauce into a shallow fireproof dish, and press the mushrooms into it with the hollow sides uppermost. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, lay small pieces of butter all over, and bake in a good oven for ten minutes. Serve in the same dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.