136 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD When ready, turn out and serve the colcannon by itself, or as an accompaniment to meat. If pre- ferred the colcannon may be baked in a border mould and another kind of vegetable served in the centre. Notes.—Any other cooked greens may be used instead of the cabbage. Instead of being baked, the mixture may be made a little moister by adding some milk, and then simply piled up in a hot vegetable dish. The egg in this case may be omitted. Fried bacon or sausages may be served with colcannon. This mixture may also be made up in small cakes, egged and bread-crumbed and fried. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 436. Red Cabbage, To Stew 1 red cabbage. 1 pt. light stock or broth. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. vinegar. Salt, pepper. 2 oz bacon. A pinch of nutmeg. Trim the cabbage, removing any damaged leaves and the hard part of the stalk. Cut it in halves and shred it rather finely. Then wash the cabbage carefully, drain it, and scald in boiling water for a few minutes. Drain again and put the prepared cabbage into a stewpan with the stock or broth (there should be sufficient to cover it). Add the butter and flour mixed together, the vinegar, season- ing, and bacon cut in small pieces. Put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to simmer slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until quite tender. Serve very hot. Notes.—Red cabbages are not often used in this country except pickled, but they make quite a good vegetable and may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for the ordinary green cabbage. This is a good accompaniment to game or sausages. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 437. Red Cabbage with Apples 1 red cabbage. 1 onion. 2 or 3 apples. 2 oz. butter or dripping. Salt. Pepper. 1 gill cream or milk. Choose a nice fresh cabbage of medium size. Cut it in four and trim it carefully, removing the hard part of the stalk and any outside or dis- coloured leaves. Then wash it well and allow it to soak about one hour in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have been added. Now rinse in fresh water, drain well, and with a sharp knife cut the cabbage in shreds. Have ready on the fire a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, plunge the shred cabbage into this, boil it quickly from 5 to 10 minutes and drain again. Peel the onion and chop it or cut it in thin slices. Peel and slice the apples, removing the cores. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the onion and allow it to cook a few minutes, but without browning. Then add the prepared cabbage and apples and season them with pepper and salt. Stew slowly by the side of the fire until the cabbage is tender, being careful to stir the contents of the saucepan occasionally. Add the cream or milk at the last, and cook a few minutes longer. Note.—This is a very good accompaniment to salt meat of different kinds, or it may be served with sausages. Time to cook, about | hour. Cardoon (Cardon) This is not a very common vegetable, although in some parts of the country it is easily obtainable in the autumn. The cardoon belongs to the same family as the artichoke, to which it is similar in taste, but not in appearance, as it is more like celery in form. The edible portion of the plant consists of the stems or ribs as they are called. These are bleached by being tied together and covered over Cardoon with matting, or banked up with earth in the same way as celery. This protection from the light whitens the stalks and makes them crisp and ready for use. Cardoons may be cooked according to any of the methods suggested for celery, only the stalks require a little more preparation. The prickles from the sides must first be removed, then they must be scalded for a few minutes in boiling water to which a few drops of vinegar, or lemon juice have been added. Then drain and peel off the fibrous skin. For further recipes see under Celery. 438. Stewed Cardoons (Cardons an Jus) Cardoons. Brown stock. Chopped parsley. Wash and trim the stalks, removing the prickles at the sides. Cut them in short lengths and throw them into a saucepan of boiling salted water made slightly acid with vinegar or lemon juice. Boil quickly for 5 or 10 minutes, then drain and scrape or peel off the fibrous skin. Now return the pieces of cardoon to the saucepan, pour in enough good brown stock to cover them and stew slowly until tender. When ready, lift out the pieces and arrange them neatly in a hot vegetable dish and allow the stock to boil rapidly until reduced to a thin glaze. Pour this over the cardoons and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Carrots (Carottes) The carrot is one of the most useful and most nourishing of vegetables, although it is not one which is particularly easy of digestion. It is valuable both for flavouring purposes in soups and stews, and also for serving as a separate vegetable. It is more nourishing than the turnip,