252 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD a frying pan with a small quantity of dripping or butter, and cook them thoroughly on account of the suet. Drain well and serve with some good sauce or gravy. A little cooked spaghetti or maca- roni may be put in the centre of the dish and the dormers arranged round it. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 8 dormers. 1022. Cold Meat Fritters, 1 (Beignets de Viande) £ lb. cooked meat, lb. flour. 1 gill tepid water. 1 table-sp. salad oil or melted butter. Seasoning. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. £ tea - sp. powdered herbs. 1 egg. Sieve the flour into a basin, add to it gradually the tepid water and yolk of egg, and beat well until a smooth batter is formed. Mince the meat very finely and add it to the batter with the salad oil or melted butter, and season with pepper, salt, the powdered herbs and parsley, and other season- ing, according to the kind of meat used. Allow this to stand for some time, and when ready to use it, stir in the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Drop small spoonfuls of the mixture into boiling fat (see p. 248) and fry a golden brown colour. Lift out, drain, and serve piled up with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley, and serve tomato or piquante sauce separ- ately. These fritters must not be allowed to stand, as they become heavy. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 1023. Cold Meat Fritters, 2 (Beignets de Viande) 4 to 6 oz. cooked meat. 1 tea - sp. chopped 1 table-sp. salad oil. onion. 1 table-sp. ketchup or A pinch of mace. Worcester sauce. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. chopped Frying batter. parsley. Use very tender beef or mutton for these. Cut the meat into thin neat slices and trim away all skin and gristle. Lay the slices on a plate, pour over them the salad oil and ketchup or Worcester sauce, and sprinkle with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, chopped onion, and a little ground mace or nutmeg. Allow the meat to lie in this marinade at least £ an hour, turning the slices occasionally. Then dip them, one or two at a time, into frying batter (Recipe 1861), and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain and serve at once garnished with fried parsley. Tomato, piquante, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Note.—Other meat fritters may be made in the same way, and the flavouring altered according to the kind of meat used. Lemon juice or white wine should be used instead of ketchup for white meats. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1024. Gateau of Cold Meat £ lb. cooked meat. 3 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 dessert - sp. chopped onion. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. Grated lemon rind. Sauce or gravy. 1 or 2 eggs. A few browned bread- crumbs. Seasoning. Trim the meat and mince it very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then add the meat, bread- crumbs, and seasoning, and mix all together. Moisten with the egg well beaten and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls good sauce or gravy. Take a plain mould or basin, just large enough to hold the mixture, grease it well and coat it with fine browned bread- crumbs. Fill up with the meat mixture and cover the top with greased paper. Cook in a moderate oven until firm to the touch. Then turn out care- fully on a hot dish with a dish paper under it, garnish with parsley, and serve some good sauce or gravy separately. Notes.—This gateau may be steamed instead of baked; the mould might then be garnished with hard-boiled egg cut in slices instead of lining with crumbs. One cupful of cooked and sieved potato may be used instead of the bread-crumbs. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1025. Cold Meat au Gratin Cold meat mince. 3 table - sps. grated 3 table - sp. bread- cheese. crumbs. A little butter. Prepare some cold meat mince, as directed in Recipe 1011, and mix the bread-crumbs and grated cheese together. Grease a deepish fireproof dish, and sprinkle in some of the bread-crumbs and cheese. Then put in some of the meat, and repeat these layers until all is in, making the top- most layer bread-crumbs and cheese. Put a few small pieces of butter on the top and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Time to bake, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1026. Cold Beef with Haricot Beans 1 cupful chopped to- mato. 1 cupful stock or gravy. Seasoning. Horse-radish. £ lb. cooked beef. 1 large cupful cooked haricot beans. 3 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 oz. dripping or butter. Prepare the meat by trimming it and cutting it in small pieces. Have ready also a large cupful of well-cooked haricot beans. Melt the butter or dripping in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Add the tomato and gravy and simmer until the onion is quite tender. Then put in the beans and meat and season to taste. Heat slowly, and when the beans and meat are well saturated with the sauce, serve very hot, decorating the dish with a little finely shred horse-radish. Note.—Any other kind of meat may be used instead of beef. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1027. Cold Meat with Stewed Lettuce £ pt. white sauce. 2 table-sps. cream. Croutons fried bread. 2 or 3 lettuces. 1 or 2 oz. butter. £ lb. cold meat. Seasoning. Wash and trim the lettuces, scald them in boil- ing water for 2 or 3 minutes, and drain them well. Then shred or chop them, put then into a stewpan