COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 466 ing recipes, examples of the different modes of treat- ment are given. The sugar used for preserving should be of the finest quality—pure cane sugar is the best—and in a crushed or granulated form, not powdered. An inferior quality of sugar will be found more expensive in the end, as there will not only be more waste in the form of scum, but the jam will neither have such a good colour nor will it keep so long. The quantity of sugar will vary somewhat according to the nature of the fruit used, the usual proportion being from f lb. to 1 lb. to each pound of fruit, or fruit juice, as the case may be. If too little sugar is used, the jam will not keep, and, if too much, it will candy, and the flavour of the fruit will be spoilt. It is possible, but not easy, to make jam without a proper preserving pan ; an iron one would dis- colour the jam, while a tin one is so thin that the jam would be almost sure to burn. Copper, brass, and aluminium pans are the best for the Preserving Pan and Spoon purpose. Enamelled iron preserving pans are also sold, and are less expensive, but jam made in them is much more likely to burn unless it has almost constant attention. If much preserving is to be done at home, it will be found a wise invest- ment to buy a thoroughly good preserving pan and to keep it for this purpose only. The greatest care must be taken to keep the pan in good condition, and it must always be scrupulously clean and dry before the fruit is put into it. For stirring jam use a wooden or silver spoon, never an iron one, as this latter would destroy the flavour of the fruit. During the time the fruit and sugar are being boiled together, they must be stirred carefully and almost constantly. Be careful, too, that the pan is raised a little above the fire, or it will he liable to burn. On the hot plate of a close range is really the best place for cooking jam, or, if on a gas stove, raise the pan a little above the gas jet, or place an asbestos mat under it. The skimming should not be commenced too early in the process, it is only a froth which rises at first; the scum itself is very thick and muddy looking. The time for cooking the jam will depend very much upon the method employed, the kind of fruit used, and the rate of boiling. As a matter of fact it does not do to lay down any hard and fast rule as to time. Experience will be found the best guide, as, not only will the time vary according as to whether the fruit is quickly or slowly boiled, but the same kinds of fruit will be found to differ, some being more watery than others, and the more watery the fruit the longer the boiling required. If boiled too short a time, the jam will neither set firmly, nor will it keep well; on the other hand, if too much boiled, the jam will be sticky and the flavour of the fruit will be spoilt. The Jelly Bag or Cloth The best strainer for jelly is a piece of hucka- back or strong cheese cloth. This is more easily kept in order than the old-fashioned flannel bag, and serves the purpose equally well. The material may be either in the form of a towel tied on the four legs of a chair (see p. 63), or a conical-shaped bag may be made with loops through which a stick may be put, in order to suspend it between two chairs with a basin underneath. The jelly bag should be well scalded with boiling water before it is used. After the fruit has been emptied into it no pressure must be used or the juice will not be clear. The straining must be done in a warm place and out of a draught, and sufficient time must be allowed to let every possible drop of juice run through. The best plan is to let it drain over- night. Some people use a hair sieve instead of a cloth, but this is not roomy enough if a large quantity of jelly is being made, and not a very convenient plan on the whole. To Know when Jam or Jelly is Ready When a little of the jam or jelly poured upon a cold plate sets in a few minutes, it is ready and should be put at once into pots. To Pot and Cover Jam Any kind of jam jar may be used, but glass ones are to be preferred, as the state of the jam can so easily be seen. They must be thoroughly clean, dry, and even heated. It is a good plan to stand them To Pot and Cover Jam in a cool oven for a short time before using. Ladle the jam out of the preserving pan with a silver soup ladle or with a cup or jug, and fill the pots to within quarter of an inch from the top. If any drops are spilt on the sides of the pots they should