462 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD them. Put a cover on the top and bake in a moderate oven until tender, but not broken. Lift the apples carefully and place them on a dish that can be sent to the table. Measure the liquid left in the dish, and to each \ pint allow 1 tea-spoonful arrowroot. Break the arrowroot first with a little cold water, then add it to the liquid and stir in a saucepan over the fire until it boils and turns clear. Add a little more marmalade and pour this sauce over the apples. A little liqueur may also be added to the sauce if wished. Serve this compote warm, handing finger biscuits and cream separately. 2084. Baked Bananas Bananas. I A little water. Granulated sugar. I Grated lemon rind. Peel the bananas and lay them in a fireproof dish. Sprinkle them liberally with sugar and a little grated lemon rind. Cover the bottom of the dish with water and bake in a good oven until the bananas are sufficiently cooked. Note.—Any other flavouring may be used instead of the lemon rind, such as spice, chopped nuts, vanilla, orange rind and juice, &c., and a little white wine may be used instead of water. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. 2085. Compote of Bananas 5 or 6 bananas. \ lb. sugar. Rind and juice of 1 orange. 2 table-sps. chopped walnuts. A little water. Peel the bananas, and with a silver knife cut them in slices about 1 inch in thickness. Place these in an enamelled or earthenware saucepan with the grated rind and the Juice of 1 orange, the sugar and nuts. Add just enough water to prevent the fruit from sticking to the saucepan, put on the lid and stew slowly until the bananas are soft, but not broken. Serve this compote warm. Note.—Lemon may be used instead of orange, And a little wine instead of the water. Time to cook, 15 to 20 minutes. 2086. Banana and 4 or 5 bananas. 1 tea-cupful cranberries. J lb. sugar. Cranberry Compote 1 gill water. I tea-sp. ground cinna mon. Pick and wash the cranberries, put them into a saucepan with the sugar and cinnamon, and stew them until tender. Then rub them through a sieve and return the puree thus obtained to the saucepan. Peel the bananas, cut them in pieces with a silver knife, and put them into the cranberry puree. Cook for a few minutes until the bananas are soft and serve cold. Note.—Red currant* or raspberries may be used instead of the cranberries. 2087. Compote of Cherries (Compote de Cerises) 1 lb. cherries. f lb. sugar. Juice of 1 lemon. Wipe the cherries carefully, and separate them the one from the other. Trim the stalks with a pair of scissors, leaving only from 1 inch to H inch on each. Put the cherries into a lined saucepan "with the sugar, and strain in the lemon juice. Put the lid on the pan, and stew gently for 10 minutes, or until the cherries are cooked without being broken. Lift them carefully on to a glass dish, and pour back into the saucepan any juice which may be round them. Boil this juice a few minutes longer, and then pour it over the cherries. 2088. Jubilee Cherries (Cerises a la Jubile) 1 lb. cherries. £ lb. loaf sugar. | gill water. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot. A little rum,champagne, kirsch, or brandy. Choose very good cherries for this, and pick, wash, anc! stone them. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan and let them melt over the fire. Skim if necessary. Put in the cherries, let them cook a for/ minutes and drain them from the syrup. Return the syrup to the saucepan, add to it the arrowroot broken with a little water, and stir over the fire until smooth and thick. Put back the cherries to warm them through; then serve in small china or silver casseroles. Pour a little hot rum, champagne, kirsch, or brandy over each, and set a light to them just before serving. 2089. Cherries in Brandy Morelia cherries. Castor sugar. French brandy. Choose perfectly sound and not over-ripe morella cherries of a good colour. Cut off the stalks about \ inch from the fruit and wipe the cherries with a soft cloth. Then pack them in perfectly dry pre- serving bottles and in alternate layers with the best castor sugar. Allow about 3 oz. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Rather more than half fill the bottles with the fruit and sugar, and then fill up with good French brandy. Cover or cork the bottles very tightly to make them air-tight, and store in a cool and dry place. These should be kept at least two months before using. 2090. Compote of Chestnuts with Rum (Compote de Marrons au Rhum) 1 lb. Italian chestnuts. 1 glass rum. 2 oz. sugar. Roast and peel the chestnuts (see Recipe 1625), place them in a hot dish which can be sent to table, and keep them warm. Heat the rum in a small lined saucepan with the sugar, pour it over the chestnuts, and set a light to it. Send the dish to table while burning. 2091. Compote of Dates 1 lb. dates. I Juice 1 lemon. \ lb. sugar. I 1 large glass Malaga. Wipe the dates and remove the stones. Put them into a jar with the sugar, strained juice of 1 lemon, and the wine. Cover and place the jar in a saucepan of boiling water. Then- stew by the side of the fire or in the oven for 1 hour. Serve when cold. 2092. Stewed Figs 1 lb. dried figs. I 1 pt. water. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. | Juice of 1 lemon. Wash the figs thoroughly, cut oS the hard piece of stalk, and then look them over carefully, discard- ing any that are black or discoloured. Place the