HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES 501 part through a fine sieve to make 1 gill of puree. Dissolve the gelatine in the aspic jelly, allow it to cool slightly and strain into the tomato puree. Add the mayonnaise or cream, season to taste, and stir occasionally until beginning to set. Take a flat tin or box, rinse it out with cold water, pour in the tomato mixture, and set aside in a cold place until firm. When required, cut the tomato cheese in small neat pieces and serve garnished with small cress or salad. Note..—Some good jelly stock may be used in- stead of aspic jelly. 2304. Savoury Tomato Creams (Petites Cremes aux Tomates) \ tea-cupful tomato puree. 1 oz. sheet gelatine. | gill double cream. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. Small biscuits. A little butter. Chopped parsley. The tomato puree may be made from either fresh or tinned tomatoes by rubbing them through a fine sieve. The puree must not be too thin. Put it into a small saucepan with the gelatine cut in pieces, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Then turn into a basin to cool, and add the grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere will be best). Season to taste, and lastly stir in the cream, slightly whipped. Rinse some very small dariole or other shaped moulds with cold water, fill them up with the tomato cream mixture when it is beginning to set, and place them in a cool place until firm. When required, turn out the creams on small round biscuits that have been buttered and sprinkled with some finely-chopped parsley. Serve cold, garnished with sprigs of parsley or watercress. 2305. Mayonnaise of Tunny Fish (Thon a la Mayonnaise) some thick whipped cream, season with cayenne, put it into a small forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force out a rose on the top of each biscuit. Finish with a stoned olive or a small radish placed on the top of each. 2307. Canapgs a la Duchesse Small biscuits. Plover’s eggs. 4 or 5 oz. cooked ham. 1 table-sp. bechamel sauce. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. thick cream. Cayenne. Mustard. Parsley or chervil. Use small round biscuits, either plain or made of anchovy or cheese pastry. Chop the ham finely, pound it in a mortar with the sauce, butter, and seasoning, and rub all through a fine wire sieve. Then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls thick cream lightly whipped. Put this mixture into a forcing bag with a rose pipe on the end of it, and force out some on to each biscuit. Place a half or quarter of a hard-boiled plover’s egg on the top, and garnish with a tiny sprig of parsley or chervil. Serve very cold. 2308. Canapes a la Russe Brown bread and butter Tomato. Spiced beef. Whipped cream. Grated horse-radish. Chilli vinegar. Cut some round canapes of brown bread and butter (see Recipe 2247). Take a firm red tomato, peel it, cut it in thin slices, and lay a slice on each canap4 of bread. Then a thin round of spiced or smoked beef, or tongue on the top. Mix some grated horse-radish with the whipped cream, season with a few drops of chilli vinegar, and pile a little of this on the top of each canapA Sprinkle with coralline pepper and serve on a lace-edged paper. Lettuce. Tunny fish. Mayonnaise sauce. Chopped parsley or chervil. Coralline pepper. Take the heart of a nice round and firm lettuce and separate the leaves carefully, being careful not to break them. The leaves should be as much the shape of a scallop shell as possible. Wipe them very gently with a damp cloth, or wash them if neces- sary, but on no account must they be made limp. Then take some tunny fish and mix it with some well-seasoned mayonnaise sauce. Put some of this mixture into the centre of each lettuce leaf and decorate with chopped parsley or chervil, and a little coralline pepper. Arrange neatly on a round dish with all the stalk ends of the lettuce leaves towards the centre. 2306. Biscuits a la Mignonne Parmesan biscuits. Potted meat. Cream or butter. Whipped cream. Capers. Olives. Take any nice potted meat and mix it with a little cream or butter to make it of a softish con- sistency. Spread this rather thickly on Parmesan cheese biscuits, or any other nice savoury biscuit, and smooth over with a knife. Sprinkle with chopped capers or other green pickle. Then take 2309. Canapes a la Victoria Cucumber (6 or 8 slices). 1 table-sp. shrimp paste. 2 table-sps. tomato juice 2 sheets gelatine. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 6 or 8 radishes. Small cress. Take a fresh raw cucumber and cut 6 or 8 slices about \ inch in thickness. With a round cutter stamp off the green skin from the slices of cucumber, and then, with a smaller cutter, stamp out the seeds from the centre. Now place these rings of cucumber on a plate and put them in a very cold place or on ice, whilst preparing the rest of the savoury. Take a table-spoonful of potted shrimp, remove all the butter from the top, and work it in a basin to soften it slightly. Dissolve the gelatine in the tomato juice and strain into the shrimp paste. Add the whipped cream, seasoning, and a very little carmine to make the mixture a pale pink colour. Stir occasionally until beginning to set; then put the mixture into a forcing bag and force it out on the top of the rings of cucumber, piling it high like a rosette. Stand a small radish on the top of each, and decorate with a little small cress or tiny sprigs of chervil. Serve on a dish paper as a savoury, or one on each plate as a hors- d’oeuvre.