337 PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES cooking must be done in such a way as to lose none of the flavour of the meat. The best plan is to cover the pie dish, when it is filled with the meat, with another dish or close-fitting lid, and to place it in a moderate oven for 1 hour or longer. Or, the prepared meat may be put into a closed jar and steamed for an hour or so. In all cases the contents of a meat pie must be quite cold before the covering of paste is put on. To Cover and Bake a Meat Pie For a plain pie, to be eaten hot, dripping crust does very well; but for a superior pie, either rough puff or flaky pastry is more suitable. The quantity made with £ lb. of flour will be about the requisite amount for the following recipes. Roll out the pastry into an oblong shape and about I inch in thickness. From this cut a strip about l\ inches in width, or rather wider than the rim of the pie dish. Then wet the rim of the dish with cold water and lay this neatly on. Where a join is made, wet one of the edges to make them stick. Do not overlap the pieces, or one part of the edge will be thicker than the other. Wet this strip of pastry with cold water and lay on the larger piece of pastry to cover the top of the pie. Press this piece of pastry well on, easing it in slightly and. not dragging it over the dish. With a sharp knife cut off the larger pieces of pastry hanging round the dish, then hold the dish up in the left hand and with the right trim neatly round the edges. When trimming take short quick strokes, always cuttingawayfromyou,andincliningthe knife in such a way that the edges of the crust will have a considerable outward slope. Then flour the first finger of the left hand and keep pressing the back of it down on the rim of the pastry, while with the back-of a floured knife you tap the edges smartly all round, making them look like the leaves of a book. To scallop them, draw the back of the knife sharply across them at intervals of about £ inch, drawing the knife upwards and inwards, while with the thumb of the left hand you keep pressing the pastry just in front of the knife down- wards and outwards. Make a hole in the centre of the pie with a knife and brush over with beaten egg, omitting the outer edge. Roll out the trimmings of the pastry and cut out leaves for decorating. To Make Leaves.—This may be done with fancy cutters, or in the following simple way. Cut the pastry into strips about 1 £ inch wide. Then divide these obliquely into diamond-shaped pieces. Mark each with the back of a knife to imitate the veins of a leaf. From seven to nine of these leaves will be required for a centre ornament, and they should radiate from the hole in the centre of the pie towards Meat Pie ready for Oven the edge of the dish. The pie may be further deco- rated by having one or two roses, or a tassel, put in the centre, but care must always be taken not to fill up the hole. To Make a Rose.—Take a small piece of pastry about the size of a nutmeg and work into it as much dry flour as it will take up. Then roll it out as thin as a sheet of paper and cut a square. Fold in four so as to make a smaller square, and then lay this over the point of the first finger, folding down the edges all round. Cut a cross in the centre of the V