COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 228 905. Blanquette of Mutton Prepare in the same way as Blanquette de Veau (Recipe 945), using a breast of mutton instead of the veal. 906. Hot Pot 11 lbs. mutton. 1 lb. potatoes. 3 onions. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter or dripping. £ pt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Seasoning. This dish should be cooked and served in an earthenware pot sold for the purpose. Trim the meat and cut it into small pieces, removing all superfluous fat, which can be saved for clarifying. Split the kidneys, remove the skin and the hard part from the centre and cut them in small pieces, slice the onions thinly and scald them in boiling water a few minutes. Peel the potatoes, cut a few of them in halves or quarters, and slice the re- mainder rather thickly. Arrange the ingredients in layers in the hot-pot dish, seasoning each with a little pepper and salt. The last layer should be the pieces of potato. Pour in the stock and put the butter or dripping in small pieces on the top. Cover with a lid, or twist a strong piece of greased paper over the top, and cook in a moderate oven. About half an hour before serving, remove the cover and allow the top to become a nice brown colour. Sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley and serve in the dish. Notes.—Beef or veal may be used instead of the mutton, or a mixture of meats makes a very good hot pot. A few mushrooms or oysters may be added if liked, also a red chilli cut in fine shreds. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 907. Spring Stew 2 lbs. neck of lamb. 1 doz. young carrots. | doz. young turnips. 4 doz. spring onions. £ doz. new potatoes. 1 Cos lettuce. 1 cupful green peas. Warm water. Salt. Cut the lamb into chops, wipe and trim them neatly. Put them into a stewpan or earthenware casserole with warm water to cover them and a little salt. Bring to the boil and skim well. Pre- pare the vegetables. Cut the lettuce and onions in shreds, and cut the potatoes, turnips, and carrots in about equal-sized pieces. When all scum has been removed from the meat, put into the saucepan the lettuce, onion, carrot and turnip, and add a little more salt. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for | hour. Then add the new potatoes and green peas and stew about J hour longer. To serve, place the meat jn the centre of a hot dish, with the vegetables ana gravy round. Time to stew, 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 908. Ragout of Lamb with Green Peas (Ragoflt d’Agneau aux Petits Pois) 2 lbs. breast or neck of lamb. 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 pt. shelled peas. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Some light stock. A sprig of mint. A small bunch of herbs. Cut the meat in small neat pieces and sprinkle it with the flour. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the meat and brown it slightly. Add pepper, salt, enough light stock or meat boilings to cover the meat, and the bunch of herbs. Bring to the boil, skim if necessary, and stew slowly for £ an hour. Then add the peas, mint, and sugar, and continue the cooking for an hour longer, or until the meat is tender. Lift out the mint and herbs before serving. One or two table-spoonfuls of cream added at the last will very much improve the ragout. Note.—Veal or mutton may be cooked in the same way. A little finely-chopped onion may be added to the ragout if liked. Time to stew, about 14 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 909. Grilled Chops For grilling, chops should be cut at least 1 inch in thickness, and they should be taken from a well- hung piece of mutton. Remove from them all skin and superfluous fat and trim them neatly. Then flatten them slightly with a cutlet bat or heavy spoon, and brush them over with melted butter or salad oil. Grill according to General Directions (see p. 208), and season them with pepper and salt. The time required for cooking will de- pend on the thickness of the meat and also upon individual taste. A well-cooked chop should be nicely browned on the outside and red and juicy within. When ready, place the chops on a very hot dish and serve them with a pat of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top of each. A little watercress may be used as a garnish. Fried or saute potatoes or some grilled or baked tomatoes are good accompaniments, or the chops may be served on a puree of potatoes, chestnuts, onions, &c. Time to grill, from 8 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. 910. Fried Chops To taste well these must be cooked in such a way that they retain all their juices and are not saturated with fat. Prepare the chops as for grill- ing, but without brushing them over with oil or butter. Melt a small quantity of good butter or dripping in a clean frying pan—1 oz. will be suffi- cient for 5 or 6 chops—and let it become smoking hot. If not made hot enough it will draw the juice out of the meat; at the same time care must be taken that it does not burn. Lay the chops into this—they must not overlap each other—and when brown on one side, turn them without piercing the meat and brown on the other. Turn occasionally until the chops are sufficiently cooked. When the meat is puffy and offers a slight resistance to the touch it is done. Drain the chops and serve them as directed in last recipe, or a gravy may be made in the pan and poured round, or, if preferred, a