SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 195 the pieces into a basin of cold water. When all are sliced, drain the apple and put it in a lined saucepan with the water, sugar, and nutmeg. Stew slowly until reduced to a pulp, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. Add the butter and mash until smooth, or rub through a hair sieve. Make thoroughly hot before serving. Sometimes a little cream is added at the last. Notes.—Apple sauce is frequently a bad colour owing to the apples being cut with a steel knife; and the sauce stirred with a metal spoon, or an iron saucepan being used. The above directions must be carefully followed to ensure success. This sauce is used as an accompaniment to roast pork, roast duck, goose, or young pig. 774. Apricot Sauce (Sauce aux Abricots) 1 gill apricot puree. 1 gill water. 1 tea-sp. arrowroot or cornflour. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. sherry or 1 tea-sp. maraschino. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Make the puree from tinned apricots by rubbing four or five pieces through a hair sieve and making up the quantity with the syrup. Put this puree into a small lined saucepan, add to it the arrow- root broken with the cold water, and stir over the fire until it boils and thickens. Add the sugar, flavouring, and enough carmine to make it a pretty pink colour. Cook two or three minutes longer, and serve. Note.—Apricot jam may be used instead of tinned fruit, but a little water must be used to thin it down while sieving. The wine or liqueur may be omitted, and any other flavouring added to taste. 775. Arrowroot Sauce | pt. water. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. arrowroot. 1 oz. butter. Lemon juice. Put most of the water into a small lined saucepan and heat it over the fire. Mix the arrowroot with the remainder of the water, and when quite smooth add it to the rest. Stir over the fire until boiling, and cook at least 10 minutes. Add the sugar, lemon juice, and butter at the last. Any other flavouring may be used, or a little wine or fruit syrup may be added. This sauce may be coloured with a few drops of carmine or cochineal. 776. Banana Sauce (Sauce aux Bananes) 2 or 3 ripe bananas. 1 orange. 1 breakfast-cupful water Yellow colouring. 2 table-sps. sugar. Peel the bananas and rub them through a sieve. Put the water, sugar, and thinly peeled rind of the orange into a saucepan, and allow them to simmer for 10 minutes. Add the banana pulp, the juice of the orange, and a little yellow colouring. Simmer a few minutes longer and strain before using. Serve hot or cold. 777. Brandy Butter or Guards’ Sauce Make in the same way as Hard Sauce (Recipe 803), using brandy instead of sherry. 778. Brandy Sauce, 1 (Sauce au Cognac) 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour, i 1| gills of water. 1 oz. sugar. | | glass brandy. Melt the butter in a small lined saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon .until smooth. Draw the pan to one side, and pour in the water; then return to the fire and stir con- stantly until boiling. Add the brandy and sugar, and boil a few minutes longer. 779. Brandy Sauce, 2 (Sauce au Cognac) 2 yolks of eggs. I f glass of brandy. | gill cream, f gill water. I 1 oz. sugar. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and stand the basin in a saucepan of slowly simmering water. Whisk the contents with a fork or small wire whisk from 6 to 8 minutes, until thick and frothy, when the sauce will be ready. Do not boil, or it will curdle. 780. Caramel Sauce (Sauce au Caramel) 2 table-sps. castor sugar. I \ pt. custard sauce. 2 table-sps. water. | Vanilla. Put the castor sugar into a saucepan, stir it until melted, and let it take a nice brown colour. Then add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of water, mix until smooth, and pour this caramel into J pint custard sauce. Flavour with vanilla. 781. Cherry Sauce (Sauce aux Cerises) 1 oz. glac6 cherries. 2 oz. loaf suga*. 1 gill water. Juice of | lemon. 2 or 3 drops carmine. 1 tea-sp. brandy. Put the sugar and water into a saucepan with the strained juice of £ lemon. Bring them to the boil and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. Then add the cherries cut in small neat pieces, a little carmine or cochineal to make the sauce a cherry colour, and the brandy. Cook a minute or two longer, then turn into a basin to cool. Serve cold. 782. Chocolate Sauce, 1 (Sauce au Chocolat) 1 gill milk. 1 oz. chocolate. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 4 or 5 drops of vanilla essence. Rinse out a small lined saucepan with cold water and put into it the milk and chocolate, either grated or shred down finely with a knife. Simmer until quite dissolved. Mix the yolk of egg and sugar together in a basin, and pour the chocolate gradually on to them. Return to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until almost boiling. Remove at once, and add the flavouring. Notes.—A plainer sauce can be made by omitting the yolk of egg and adding 1 tea-spoonful corn- flour, broken with a little cold water. This must be cooked thoroughly in the sauce. A tea-spoonful brandy or liqueur may be added to the sauce if wished. 783. Chocolate Sauce, 2 (Sauce au Chocolat) 2 oz. chocolate. | pt. water. 1J oz. castor sugar. Grate or shred the chocolate, put it into a sauce- pan with half the water and the sugar, and stir 1 dessert-sp. flourof rice. 1 tea-sp. rum. Vanilla essence.