32 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD FARM PRODUCE Butter.—Keep in an earthenware crock, cover with a piece of muslin wrung out of salted water and then with a tight-fitting lid. If there is a large quantity of butter to be stored it should be packed very tightly in the crock, so as to leave no room for air to get down the sides. Place the crock in a cool, dark, and airy place. To keep fresh butter in hot weather a butter cooler should be used; this is made with a cover into which is poured a little water. Failing a butter cooler, place the butter in a bowl standing in a larger bowl of cold water. Cover it with a piece of muslin, allowing the ends of the muslin to dip into the water. The water, which should be changed daily, is soaked up by the muslin and thus kept constantly wet. Butter must not be put near any strong-smelling substance, as it quickly absorbs any flavour. Cheese.—A cut piece of cheese should be wrapped in grease-proof paper or in damp muslin and kept in a cheese dish, or jar or tin in which there is a little ventilation. A large piece of cheese ought to be turned frequently and the rind rubbed occa- sionally with a cloth to prevent moisture collecting. A ripe cheese must be watched carefully to see that it is not attacked by the cheese fly. Milk and Cream.—Strict cleanliness is of the first importance in the keeping of milk and cream. The vessels in which they are kept must be tho- roughly washed and scalded and then rinsed with cold water before they are used. A milk jug should always be of a shape that can be washed easily, wide enough to allow of a dishcloth being used right to the bottom of it, and without bends and curves which are likely to evade proper washing. A dirty milk jug is quite enough to cause poisoning, and one cannot be too particular in this respect. The jugs and basins should also be kept free from dust—the form of jug known as the dust-proof is to be recommended for this; it is hung upside down and does not catch all the dust and smuts that are flying about. Milk should always be kept covered—a piece of muslin, a plate or saucer is good for the purpose— and it should never be put near anything with a strong smell, as it readily absorbs odours. Then, again, it is a bad plan to mix milk, that is to say, a fresh lot coming in should never be added to some that has been in the house for several hours, or the whole is likely to become sour. In hot weather the milk should be scalded if it has to be kept for several hours. Stand the jug containing it in a large saucepan of water and heat to almost boiling point, or this may be done in a double saucepan. A pinch of carbonate of soda or powdered Dorax may be added to the milk to preserve it, but this spoils the flavour. The same care must be taken with cream. If it is scalded as above it will keep sweet for several hours. A lump of sugar will also help to preserve it. Eggs.—If only few in number they may be kept in a basket, but when bought in dozens it is better to keep them on an egg stand where they do not touch each other, or in a wooden box with bran or sawdust. When there is room for storing, the thrifty house- keeper will sometimes buy a quantity of eggs in the spring and store them for winter use. They can then be preserved in one of the following manners : (1) Place them in an air-tight box between layers of coarse salt. The small end of the egg should be placed downwards, and they must never touch each other. Put a layer of salt two inches deep on the top, cover with a thick piece of calico or strong paper, and then a tight-fitting lid. This must be kept in a cool place. (2) Grease the eggs (they must be very fresh) over with lard, oil, or any pure fat, and place them on a tray with a layer of bran above and below. (3) Pack in lime, in the same manner as with salt, only this renders them so brittle that they are unfit for boiling. (4) Lay them in a bath of water glass, which can be bought for about 4<2. per lb., and full directions for its use are printed on each tin. MISCELLANEOUS Fish.—Fish should always be placed in the coolest part of the larder—on a marble or slate slab if possible—and covered with a meat screen