COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 240 dry it, and rub it over with a cut lemon to whiten it. Now wrap the head in a piece of muslin and bind it with tape so that it does not lose its form. Put it into a saucepan large enough to hold it comfortably, cover it with cold water, bring slowly to the boil and skim well. When the scum has ceased to rise,add a small quantity of carrot, turnip, and onion cut in rough pieces, a little salt, and a bunch of herbs. Cover the saucepan and simmer slowly and steadily until the head is sufficiently cooked. The time will vary according to the size of the head. The flesh must not be allowed to become too soft, or it will fall to pieces and be want- ing in taste. If the liquid should boil away, add more water, as the head must always be covered. When ready, drain and bone it. Then cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Fringe the ear with a Eair of scissors and turn it backwards, giving it a ornlike appearance. Skin the tongue and cut it in slices. To Serve the Head,—Prepare the brain sauce (Recipe 677) and put the pieces of head into it to reheat. Then serve them neatly on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. Garnish with the slices of tongue and small rolls of bacon or croutons of fried bread. Notes.—Other sauces may be used in thesameway instead of the brain sauce,such as poulette.ravigote, tomato, &c., and the dish will take its name accord- ingly ; or the flesh of the head may be served cold, garnished with parsley, and vinaigrette sauce handed separately. Some people prefer to bone the head before cooking; this is just a matter of judgment. The liquid in which the head is cooked should bo kept for making soup. Time to cook, 2 to 3 horns. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Cost uncertain. 967. Calf’s Heart, Stewed, 1 I calf’s heart. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. dripping or butter. & pt. stock. Juice of | lemon. Seasoning Veal forcemeat. Chopped parsley. Thoroughly cleanse the heart, cutting away all the pipes, and if time permits allow it to soak in cold water for 1 hour. Then rinse and dry. Pre- pare some veal forcemeat as directed in Recipe 1281, fill up the cavities in the heart with this, and sew up the openings with a needle and thread. Now roll the heart in a little of the flour in order to make it very dry Melt the dripping or butter in a stew- pan; when smoking hot, put in the heart, turn it over and over until nicely browned on all sides, and then remove it to a plate. Add the remainder of the flour to the fat in the pan, and stir it over the fire until brown and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling, skim if necessary, and season to taste. Return the heart to this sauce, cover closely, and stew very slowly until tender. The heart ought to be turned over occasionally while it is cooking, and if the sauce reduces too much add a little more stock. When ready, remove the heart to a hot dish and take out the stitches. Skim any grease off the sauce, add the lemon juice, and strain over the heart. Sprinkle with finely chopped parsley and serve. Note.—The dish may bo garnished with rolls of bacon or with potato balls. Time to stew, 2 to 3 horns. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 968. Calves’ Hearts, Stewed, 2 2 calves’ hearts. U oz. butter, if oz. flour. Boiling water. Salt. Pepper. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Boiled rice. Sprigs of parsley. Wash the hearts well in cold water, cut them in pieces about an inch square, and wash again. Then put them into a saucepan "with boiling water to cover them, skim when necessary, and simmer slowly until tender with the lid on the pan. Strain when ready and reserve the liquor. Now melt the butter in the saucepan and mix the flour into it, pour in the liquor, which should measure 1 pint, and stir until boiling. Season to taste with pepper and salt, and return the pieces of heart. Cook a few minutes longer, and just before serving stir in the ’yolks of eggs and parsley off the fire. The sauce must not boil after the yolks of eggs have been added. Serve the stew neatly with a border of boiled rice round, and decorate with small sprigs of parsley. Time to cook, 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 969. Calf’s Heart, Roasted Prepare and stuff the heart as in Recipe 967, and wap it up in a piece of greased paper. Roast it in the oven from 1J to 2 hours, keeping it well basted with dripping. When ready, carefully remove all the paper and place the heart on a hot dish. Pour away most of the dripping from the Calf’s Heart, Boasted roasting tin, add a tea-spoonful of flour to what remains and mix it well in. Then pour on a cupful of stock or gravy and stir over the fire until boiling. Skim well, season to taste, and pour this sauce over the heart. Garnish the dish with rolls of bacon or forcemeat balls and serve very hot. 970. Stewed Veal Kidneys (Rognons de Veau Sautes) 2 veal kidneys. 2 oz. butter or beef dripping. 1 onion. 1 oz. flour. Salt. Pepper. 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 cupful stock or gravy. Juice of h lemon. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. Croutons of fried bread or pastry. Remove the skin from the kidneys and split them in two. Take out the white nerve from the centre, cut each half into thin slices and toss them in the flour. Melt the fat in a small stewpan, add