COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 312 They may, if liked, be sprinkled with a little grated Parmesan or other dry cheese, or, if to be served with pea or lentil soup, with a little finely powdered mint. 1301a. Croutons for Garnish Prepare some bread as above and cut it in slices not more than £ inch in thickness. Then cut the Crofttons for Garnishing slices in crescents, triangles, heart or cutlet shapes, according to the purpose for which they are re- quired. Fry as directed for croutons for soup and drain well. These are useful for decorating dishes of mince, hash, ragouts, fricassees, &c., and various entries. 1302. Bread Croute or Socle This is a large piece of fried bread, which is not meant to be eaten, but is used to raise or support various entries and meat dishes, to give them a handsomer appearance, and to allow of better garnishing. The crumb of stale bread should be used, cut it to the desired shape, round, oval, or conical, &c., immerse it in hot fat and fry to a golden brown colour. This can be made to adhere to the dish with a little white of egg. Note.—For other croutes see under Savouries. 1303. Baked Bread for Soup A square loaf not less than a day old is best for this. Cut off the crust of as much as will be re- quired, but not too deep. Then take a very sharp knife and cut the bread in slices as thin as possible. They should be so thin that the knife can be seen through them. Place these shoes on a clean baking tin and dry them in a slow oven until they curl up and become a pale yellow colour. Send them to table in a bread basket or on a plate with a dish paper under them. 1304. Pulled Bread This may be either bought ready or prepared in the following way : take the inside crumb from a French roll, pull it with the fingers (it must never be cut) into small pieces, and brown these in a slow oven until of a nice amber colour. 1305. Pastry Croutons for Soup Roll out some scraps of puff or other good pastry very thinly and cut it in shreds from 1 to 1£ inches in length and either bake or fry these until lightly browned. Drain carefully and serve hot and crisp. The pastry may be flavoured with grated cheese if desired, or cheese pastry (Recipe 2255) may be used. 1306. Fleurons of Pastry Roll out any scraps of light pastry to about \ inch in thickness, and cut out small shapes with a fluted or fancy cutter. Place these on a baking sheet, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven for about 10 minutes. These are used as a garnish for various entries, ragouts, mince, &c. 1307. Aspic Jelly (Aspic) 1 \ pt. veal or calf’s foot stock or 1J pt. water. 1 gill sherry, Marsala, or Chablis. About 1 gill assorted vinegars. 2 oz. or less sheet gela- tine. Rind and juice of 1 lemon. 1 onion. A piece of carrot and turnip. 1 stick celery or 1 tea-sp. celery seed. 1 tea-sp. salt. A sprig of thyme. A sprig of marjoram. A few parsley stalks. 2 or 3 bay-leaves. 1 blade of mace. The whites and shells of 2 eggs. 20 white peppercorns. 4 cloves. Take a clean lined saucepan and rinse it out with hot water. Put into it the stock or water (which should be quite free from grease) and the gelatine cut in small pieces. If the stock is a jelly, less gelatine may be used, the quantity will depend somewhat upon what the aspic is to be used for—a stiffer jelly being required in some cases than others. This is a matter of judgment. Add the vegetables, prepared and cut in pieces, the herbs tied together with fine string or thread, and the smaller seasonings tied in a piece of muslin. Add also the sherry, whites of eggs, and the shells washed and crushed. To measure the vinegars, take half a gill brown malt vinegar, nearly half a gill of tarragon vinegar, and make up the remainder with Chili vinegar. Or, less brown vinegar may be used and some spiced vinegar added. The amount of vinegar used is very much a matter of taste, a very usual fault is to add too much. Add the vinegars to the'other ingredients, with the salt, lemon rind