COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 592 then have it raised to a convenient height for the hand. Failing a proper cake stand, fix the cake on to the bottom of a cake tin turned upside down, always choosing the tin a size smaller than the cake itself, in order that the knife may pass freely round it while icing. Then pile on the top of the cake sufficient icing to cover it and spread it over, quite roughly at first, with a good-sized table knife. Now place the point of the knife to the centre of the cake, holding it horizontally and steadily with the right hand and, with the left, move the rotation stand round until a complete circle has been made, when the knife may be slipped off. It will require some practice to leave the surface smooth after one turn of the stand ; a little touching up may be neces- sary, but skill will be acquired by degrees. If the cake is being iced without a rotation stand, the knife must just be brought smoothly across it in one direction. If the top only of the cake is to be iced, allow it to dry, then decorate to taste and cover the sides with a silver or gilt paper band or with a coloured paper frill, and perhaps a band of ribbon. To Ice the Sides of the Cake.—Place some more icing on the bare parts, and spread it roughly round with a knife. Then hold the knife verti- cally and in a slanting position against the cake, seeing that it touches the complete width, and turn the stand round with the left hand. Any super- fluous icing should be carried off with a sweep of the knife when the circle is finished. If not smooth after the first attempt, repeat the process. Touch up the edges with the point of the knife, and allow the cake to dry. For a wedding cake, two, or even three coats of this icing are generally put on, but one coat must always be dry before another is added ; in fact, if more convenient, the cake may rest for several days between the coatings. To Decorate the Cake.—The simplest method of decorating a Christmas or birthday cake is to use bon-bons or preserved fruits, and these can easily be fixed in place with a little icing. The other style of decoration, known as “ piping,” is more elaborate and requires a considerable amount of practice. A few lessons from an experienced teacher would be an immense help to a beginner. For piping purposes paper bags and fancy forcing pipes are necessary. There is a special paper sold for the purpose, and this ought to be cut in triangular-shaped pieces, and twisted into little cone-shaped bags. Cut a small piece oS the end of the bag and slip in the pipe you wish to use. The pipes or tubes are made with various-shaped rpenings to give different forms to the icing pressed through them. Put some icing into this bag and fold down the top to keep it in. Now force out this icing as fancy dictates, experimenting first on the back of a plate or even a piece of paper until you get a definite and regular pattern. Then try your hand on the cake itself. Dots, stars, or rosettes are easier than a long flowing pattern, and they can be arranged very effectively. Points may be pricked at regular intervals on the cake to act as a guide in forming any pattern. Then press the icing slowly through the tube, following any device you may have in view. Of course this piping is an art which cannot be learned in a day, but if it is com- menced at the simple stages and gradually worked up to something more difficult, it will be found a most fascinating employment. Cotton and india- rubber bags are also sold for the purpose of piping, but when once the use of the paper bag is mastered it will be found much more satisfactory than any other kind, and it will do finer work. An empty paper bag, if not broken, may be refilled with icing and used again. A little colouring may also be added to the icing when desired, but this should be in the form of a paste, as any liquid would spoil the icing. When a cake is to be in two or three tiers, as in the case of a wedding cake, the cakes must be in graduated sizes, the plain coatings of icing put on separately, and then the cakes stuck together by means of a little icing before the decorating or piping is commenced. Note.—Any icing used for practising purposes may, if it is kept clean and not allowed to harden, be put back into the basin, and beaten up again with the whole. 2854. Fondant Icing 2 lbs. loaf sugar. \ pint water. £ lb. glucose. This is the most difficult kind of icing to make, and one that is not frequently tried by the amateur. It is, however, one of the nicest to eat, since it melts away in the mouth like a fondant bon-bon. The following directions may therefore prove useful. To Make the Fondant.—Use good loaf sugar. Put all the ingredients into a white enamelled saucepan or sugar boiler, and melt gradually over the fire, stirring all the time (it must not be allowed to boil before the sugar is melted). Remove any scum, then put the lid on the saucepan, and boil quickly for 5 minutes. Skim again, and wash round the sides of the saucepan with a small brush. Now put in a sugar thermometer, and boil with the lid off, and to a temperature of 240°, or to what is called the “soft ball ” (see p. 597). Pour out on a marble slab, and let the syrup cool until it can be rolled up at the sides in a sort of soft sheet. Work with a wooden spatula, turning the mixture over and over until it is quite white. Then pound with the hands until the fondant is quite smooth, and like a piece of putty. This is very hard work, so that it is better not to attempt too much at one time. The fondant is now made, and in this form it may be wrapped in paper and kept for some time in an air-tight box. If no marble slab is available, a small quantity of fondant can be worked up in a basin or on a large flat dish. To Flavour and Colour the Icing.—Take as much of the fondant as you require for the cake or cakes to be iced and put it into an enamelled saucepan. Warm this gradually over the fire, stirring care- fully, and adding a very little water if too thick. Be very careful not to make the icing too liquid, and it must on no account boil. The degree of thickness may be tested on the back of a wooden spoon ; if it coats that without running off too freely, it will coat the cake. Flavouring and colouring may be added according to taste, and the flavouring should always be suited to the colour, as for example : White Fcmdant Icing.—Flavour the fondant with vanilla, peppermint, ratafia, or maraschino. Pink.—Add a few drops of carmine or other red