COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 102 before being cooked. It requires a piquant sauce or some other tasty accompaniment to make it taste well. 272. Carp with Cream Sauce (Carpe a l’Allemande) 1 medium-sized carp. Pepper and salt. Lemon juice. | pt. sour cream. I tea-sp. meat extract. A little butter. Bread-crumbs. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. 1 or 2 sprigs of parsley. Clean the fish thoroughly, cutting off the head and fins. Place it in a well-greased baking dish or tin, season it with pepper, salt, and lemon juice, and let it stand for half an hour. Then brush the fish over with a little melted butter, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs, and put some more butter on the top. Pour the cream round, and add the onion cut in quarters and the bay-leaf. Place the fish in a moderate oven, and bake until the flesh w ill come away easily from the bone, basting several times with the cream. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a hot dish, add the meat extract to the sauce, also a little water if it has become too thick, and strain over the fish. Garnish with fresh or fried parsley. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 273, Carp, To Stew (Carpe au Jus) 1 carp. 1 table-sp. flour. Salt. 2 or 3 gills white or fish stock. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. 12 peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 gill red wine. Juice of \ lemon. A pinch of cayenne. Choose a carp of medium size, prepare it care- fully, and divide it into four or five equal-sized pieces. Dip these into flour, seasoned with salt, coating the pieces rather thickly. Put the stock into a stewpan and add to it the onion, skinned and cut in thin slices, the spices tied in a piece of muslin, the bunch of herbs and red wine. Bring this to the boil over the fire, then lay in the fish and simmer slowly until it is tender. When ready, arrange the pieces of fish neatly on a hot dish, remove the herbs and spices from the liquid in the saucepan, add the lemon juice and more seasoning, if necessary, and pour this sauce over and round the fish. Garnish with croutons of toast or fried bread. Note.—A few button mushrooms, or some stoned raisins and blanched and shred almonds may, if liked, be added to this stew. Time to stew, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 274. Carp, Stuffed and Baked (Carpe Farcie au Four) 1 carp. Fish stuffing. Egg or milk. Bread-crumbs. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 onion. 2 or 3 sprigs of parsley. 1 tea-cupful water. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 tea-sp. Worcestersauce. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A squeeze of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Choose a carp of medium size, and prepare and clean it, cutting off the head and fins. Make the stuffing as directed in Recipe 1266, put it into the opening of the fish, and sew up with a needle and cotton. Place the fish in a well-greased baking tin, brush it over with beaten egg or milk, and sprinkle it liberally with bread-crumbs. Then mix the anchovy and Worcester sauce with the water, pour them round the fish, and add the onion, finely chopped, a few sprigs of parsley, pepper and salt. Put the remainder of the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven, basting several times with the liquid. When the fish is ready, lift it carefully with a fish slice on to a hot dish, add the flour, broken with a little cold water, to the liquid in the baking tin, and stir over the fire until boiling. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, cook a few minutes, and strain round the fish or serve separately in a sauce-boat. The fish itself may be garnished with sprigs of parsley and some cut lemon. , Note.—If the liquid in the tin has dried up in the cooking, a little more water must be added, or fish stock or white wine may be used. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Eels (Angullles) There are several different kinds of eels, and they are to be found both in fresh and salt water. They cannot be eaten too fresh, and should be soaked in salt and water some time before cooking. Eels are valuable on account of their nutritive pro- perties, and, as they are rich in themselves, they are best dressed very simply. They are obtainable all the year round, but are best during the autumn and winter months. To Shin an Ed.—First cut off the head. Then turn back the skin at the top, and draw it down- wards, turning it outside in as you would draw off a stocking. 275. Eels, To Fry (Angullles Frites) Eels. Salt. I A little flour. Egg. Lemon juice. J Bread-crumbs. Wash and if possible skin the eels (see above), and cut them in pieces 2 or 3 inches long. If the pieces are thick, split them and remove the bones. Then sprinkle them with salt and a little lemon juice, and let them remain at least half an horn. Next wipe the fish dry with a clean cloth, and dip each piece in flour, coating them very lightly. Egg and bread-crumb the fish (see p. 249), and fry in deep fat to a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Tartare, caper, or some other piquante sauce should be served separately.