COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 214 pieces of rather coarse meat may be cooked in the same way, the vinegar helps to soften the fibre. Shin of beef may also be cooked according to any of the other recipes given for stewed beef, but it should never be browned, and longer time must always be allowed. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 835. Curried Beef 1£ lbs. lean beef. 2 oz. dripping or butter. 1 onion. 1 table-sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. \ pt. gravyor thin brown sauce. Juice of \ lemon. Salt. 1 table-sp. chopped pickles. Boiled rice. Wipe the meat and cut it in small neat pieces. Peel and slice the onion thinly. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the sliced onion and cook it over the fire a few minutes. Then put in the meat and fry all together for a few minutes longer, or until the meat has lost its red colour. Now add the curry powder, chutney, salt, and pickles, and cook five minutes longer. Then add the brown gravy, put the lid on the pan and allow the contents to cook very slowly until the meat is tender. Strain in the lemon juice at the last and serve with plainly boiled rice (see Recipe 1586). Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 836. Dry Beef Curry 1 lb. tender steak. 1| oz. butter. 1 dessert - sp. curry powder. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 1 tea - sp. chopped pickles. 2 table-sps. chopped apple. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 1 tea-sp.red-currant jelly A pinch of salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped apple and onion and the curry powder and cook them for a few minutes over the fire without dis- colouring. Then add the steak cut in very small pieces, the chopped pickles, chutney, and red- currant jelly. Mix well, put the lid on the sauce- pan and cook over a slow fire until the meat feels tender. The curry must be stirred from time to time and the lemon juice and salt added a short time before serving. Serve with plainly boiled rice. Note.—This curry may be cooked and served in an earthenware saucepan. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. 8d. 837. Giriash of Beef or Veal 1 lb. beef or veal. 1 onion. 1 oz. dripping. 1 gill stock or water. 1 glass claret or Madeira. 1 table-sp. flour. 2 or 3 potatoes. Seasoning. Choose tender meat. Wipe it and cut it in small pieces about an inch square, removing all skin and superfluous fat. Cut a medium-sized onion in thin slices and separate it' so that it falls in rings. Heat the dripping in a stewpan, put in the sliced onion and cook it until a pale brown colour. Then add the meat, cover the saucepan. and continue the cooking until the meat has lost its red colour. Now sprinkle in the flour, season with pepper and salt, and mix well. Moisten with the stock or water and the wine, and again cover the saucepan. Cook slowly by the side of the fire until the meat is tender, from 1J to 2 horns, stirring occasionally and adding a little more liquid if necessary. The gulash should not be made too moist. About J hour before it is ready, add the potatoes cut in small cubes, and cook them until soft, but not broken. Sometimes a little sour cream is added at the last. Serve very hot. Time to cook, 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 838. Beef with Rice and Tomatoes (Boeuf a l’ltalienne) 1£ pts. light stock or broth. 1 tea-cupful of rice. 2 tomatoes. Salt. Pepper^ 1 lb. stewing beef. 2 small onions. 2 table-sps. salad oil or butter. 1 dessert - sp. chopped pickles. Wipe and trim the meat and cut it in small square pieces. Chop the onions and peel and cut the tomatoes in small pieces. Put the oil or butter into a saucepan, when hot put in the chopped onion and cook for a few minutes over the fire. Add the meat, season with pepper, salt, and the chopped pickles, and continue the cooking for about 20 minutes, stirring frequently. Wash the rice and blanch it by putting it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, bringing it to the boil and straining. Add it to the meat with the stock and tomatoes and simmer all together until the meat is tender, being careful to stir the contents of the saucepan now and again. Serve very hot. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours in all. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. Gd. 839. Beef as Mock Hare 1 lb. stewing beef. 2 oz. bacon. 1 oz. flour. J pt. stock. A bunch of herbs. Rind and juice of \ lemon. 1 dessert-sp. red-currant i glass port wine. 1 onion stuck with 4 cloves. 1 dessert-sp. chopped capers or pickles. Forcemeat balls. Salt. Pepper. Wipe the meat, cut it in neat pieces about an inch square, and toss these in flour with a little pepper and salt. Cut the bacon in dice, put it into a stewpan and fry it for a few minutes. Then add the meat and stir it over the fire until nicely browned. Pour in the stock, and add the bunch of herbs, grated lemon rind, and onion stuck with cloves. Now put the lid on the pan and stew all very slowly until the meat is tender. A few minutes before serving, add the wine, lemon juice, red-currant jelly, and chopped pickles or capers. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, strain the gravy over, and garnish with small forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288). Notes.—Shin of beef may be used for this, but it will require a longer time to cook. The stew may be cooked in the oven instead of oil the top of the stove, or turned into a jar after the meat is ,