COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 308 squeeze out all the water in a towel. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without browning. Add the soaked bread, cook again until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan, then turn it on to a plate to cool. Wash and trim the liver, cut it in pieces and put it through the mincing machine. Mix the liver and bread panada together, season well with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg,and bind all together with beaten egg. 1271. Liver Farce au Gratin (Imitation Foie Gras) 4 oz. calf’s or sheep’s liver. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1 shallot. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley A little brown sauce. 1 table-sp. sherry. Wash and dry the liver and cut it in very thin slices, removing all skin. Chop the bacon and fry it for a few minutes in a small saucepan. Add the liver and cook it just long enough to colour the outside. Then add the shallot finely chopped, the parsley and seasoning. Cook a minute longer, turn the mixture into a mortar and pound it well, adding a little brown sauce if too dry, and accord- ing to the purpose for which the farce is to be used. When well pounded, rub through a sieve and then use as required. 1272, \ lb. mushrooms. \ lb. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Use fresh mushrooms. Mushroom Stuffing 1 egg. Pepper. Salt. A pinch of mace. Wash and dry them, and chop them up with their trimmings. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, put in the mushrooms, and cook them over a moderate heat for 6 or 7 minutes. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin, add the mushrooms to them, and season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace. Mix together and bind with beaten egg. This makes a very good stuffing for small birds. 1273. Mushroom or D’Uxelle Stuffing 2 oz. mushrooms. 1 oz. parsley and chervil. 1 dessert-sp. chopped shallot or chives. 1 oz. butter. 1 egg- Seasoning. 1 or 2 oz. bread-crumbs. Chop the parsley, chervil, and mushrooms. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, put in the chopped shallot and cOok it a few minutes over a moderate heat. Add the other chopped ingredients and cook a few minutes longer. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add a beaten egg, seasoning to taste, and enough bread-crumbs to make the stuffing of the right consistency. This is used principally for stuffing small birds. The livers of the birds, if good, may be cooked, chopped, and added to the stuffing. 1274. Nut Stuffing l lb. pine kernels. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1£ oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 1 dessert-sp. chopped 1 egg. onion. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a small saucepan and put in the nuts finely chopped and the chopped onion. Fry until lightly browned and then turn the con- tents of the saucepan into a mortar. Pound until smooth, add the cream and egg well beaten, and then the 2 oz. bread-crumbs, or enough to make the stuffing of the right consistency. Season to taste and use for stuffing game, poultry, and certain vegetables. 1275. Oyster Stuffing 1 dozen oysters. \ lb. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. Lemon rind. 1 egg- 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley A pinch of mace. Pepper. Salt. Beard the oysters, put the beards into a small saucepan with any liquor, bring them to the boil, and simmer a few minutes to extract the flavour. Then strain and reserve the liquor. Put the bread- crumbs into a basin, add the butter slightly melted, then the oysters broken in small pieces and the seasonings. Mix all together and add enough beaten egg and oyster liquor to make the stuffing of a softish consistency. This may be used for stuffing either fish or poultry. Note.—Shrimp stuffing can be made in the same way. 2 or 3 pigeon livers. 3 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1276. Forcemeat for Pigeon 1 tea-sp.chopped shallot Pepper. Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 yolk of egg. Parboil the livers and chop them finely. Mix them with the bacon, also chopped, the shallot and bread-crumbs. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and bind together with the yolk of egg and a little stock or milk if necessary. 1277. Potato Stuffing Pepper. Salt. 1 egg or 2 table-Bps. cream. 1 lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 Spanish onion. The potatoes should be dry and mealy. Mash them up with a fork or rub them through a sieve. Melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan, put in the onion finely chopped and cook it 5 or 10 minutes. Then add it to the potato, season well and add the egg well beaten, or the cream. Mix all together. The egg or cream may be omitted if a plainer stuffing is wished. Sometimes a little powdered sage or other herb is added. 1278. 2 large Spanish onions. I lb. bread-crumbs. 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. 1 oz. butter. Sage and Onion Stuffing Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of castor sugar. Peel the onions and cut them in thick slices. Put them into a saucepan, sprinkle them well with salt and cover with hot water. Bring to the boil, cook 5 minutes and strain off this water. Cover again with hot water and boil slowly for i hour, or until the onions are half cooked. Then drain, press the onions as dry as possible and chop them finely. Put them into a basin with the bread-crumbs and add the sage finely powdered, seasoning, and the butter melted. Mix together and use as directed,