381 BREAKFAST DISHES warmed in the oven, or on the rack above the fire before being toasted. Brown bread may be toasted in the same way, and is preferred by some people. Although toast requires some care to make pro- perly, badly made toast is simply the result of want of attention. For toasting on a gas stove, see p. 21. 1637. Hot Buttered Toast Toast the bread rather more quickly than for dry toast, as it should not be so crisp. As each slice is ready, trim off the crusts and spread liberally with butter that has been slightly warmed, but not oiled. Cut in convenient-sized pieces and keep hot in a covered dish over a bowl of hot water. Proceed with more slices in the same way and serve them piled one on the top of the other and as hot as possible. Be particular to use very good butter. 1638. Oatmeal Porridge (Scotch Method) £ lb. oatmeal. 1£ pts. water. Salt. Put the water into a clean saucepan and bring it to the boil. When boiling, sprinkle in the oat- meal, stirring all the time with a porridge stick or “ spurtle.” Continue to stir until the porridge is perfectly smooth and beginning to thicken. Then add salt to taste and draw the saucepan to the side of the fire where the contents will simmer slowly. Allow the porridge to cook at least three quarters of an hour, until the oatmeal is soft and swollen. The time will depend somewhat on the kind of oatmeal used, whether it is fine, medium, or coarse. The medium or coarse is generally preferred, and care must be taken to buy it as fresh as possible and to keep it in a dry place, as it soon becomes musty. The porridge must be stirred occasionally during the cooking, and if it becomes too thick more water must be added. When wanted, pour boiling hot into porridge plates or platters and serve with cream or milk. Note.—The saucepan in which the porridge has been cooked should at once be filled with cold water, as this will facilitate the cleaning later on. It should, if possible, be kept for porridge making only. Other Methods Put the oatmeal and water into a basin, cover with a plate, and stand overnight. Next morning turn them into a saucepan, stir over the fire until boiling and add salt to taste. Draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and allow the porridge to simmer slowly for at least £ hour, stirring occasion- ally to prevent its sticking to the saucepan. Or, the meal with the water may be soaked in a double cooker overnight, and if water is put in the outer saucepan, it will only require to be put on the fire or gas in the morning. Cooked in this way the porridge may require longer time, but it will need little attention beyond an occasional stir and seeing that the water underneath boils all the time, and does not reduce too much. There will be no fear of the porridge burning. There are also different preparations of rolled or crushed oats, which may be used for making por- ridge ; they form a little variety to the ordinary oatmeal, and take perhaps a shorter time to cook. Double Cooker Note.—Brown sugar or syrup may be served with the porridge if liked. 1639. Wheaten Meal Porridge Make in the same way as oatmeal porridge. This forms a nice variety and is less heating to the blood than oatmeal porridge. 1640. Bread and Milk Cut some stale white bread in dice, removing the crust if desired. Half fill a small bowl with this and fill up with boiling milk. Cover the bowl and stand the bread and milk in a warm place for 5 or 10 minutes. Serve with brown sugar to taste. Note.—Breakfast biscuits or rusks may be used in place of the bread. 1641. Milk Toast Toast the required amount of stale bread until brown and crisp. Then butter it, cut it in fingers, and arrange it in a hot plate or porridge dish. Have ready some scalded milk, season it with salt, pour over the toast, and serve very hot. This makes a nice change from porridge and is good for children. 1642. Shredded Wheat Biscuit Place a shredded wheat biscuit in a hot oven and allow it to become crisp without burning. Then put it in a soup plate and pour over a cupful of hot milk. Let it stand a minute or two and serve with salt or sugar to taste. Or, dip the biscuit quickly in cold milk, drain it, put it in a covered dish, and heat thoroughly in the oven. Then serve with cold milk or cream, and sugar or salt to taste. Note.—Stewed fruit, honey, syrup, or marmalade may be served with the biscuit if wished. 1643. Hominy Porridge 2 oz. hominy. I Salt or sugar to taste. 1 pt. boiling water. | A small piece of butter. Wash the hominy, then pour over it the boiling water, cover the basin and let it stand all night. Next morning turn all into a saucepan, bring to the boil and simmer at least half an hour, stirring frequently, as it is apt to burn. Or, a better plan is to cook the hominy in a double saucepan, allowing one hour. More water must be added if necessary, or half milk and half water may be used. Add salt or sugar to taste, and just before serving stir