COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 286 until the bird Is tender. About J hour before it is ready, add small forcemeat balls made according to Recipe 1288. Serve neatly, placing the balls round the dish. Or, the fricassee may be cooked and served in an earthenware casserole. An orange or celery salad would be a good accompani- ment. Note.—The forcemeat balls may be omitted and the dish garnished with fried croutons of bread. The grated rind and juice of an orange may be added instead of the lemon juice. Time to cook, 1 to hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1168. Roast Pigeon (Pigeon Roti) A pigeon should be plucked and drawn as soon as killed. Do this in the same way as directed for a fowl (see p. 275). Only a very young and tender pigeon should be roasted, in fact as a rule they are better braised or stewed. Wash the pigeon or wipe it well, scald and skin the legs and feet and cut off the toes at the first joint. Put a small piece of butter inside, and season with pepper and salt. A pigeon is trussed in very much the same way as a fowl for roasting, only the legs are crossed. Make a small slit in the skin of one of them, just above the foot, and pass the other through it. Turn the ends of the pinions over the back and press the thighs close to the sides of the body. Now take a needle and fine string, pass it through the pinion and leg on one side, then through the body and the leg and pinion on the other side. Pass back again at a very short distance from where the first string comes out, and tie the two ends together at the other side. Tie a piece of fat bacon over the breast, or the breast may be larded. Roast in a good oven from 15 to 20 minutes, keeping it well basted with butter. Serve garnished with watercress or chip potatoes and a thickened gravy made in the roasting tin (see p. 208) separately. Bread sauce may also be served if wished, and a green salad is a good accompaniment. Note.—If liked, the pigeon may be stuffed before roasting. For Recipe for forcemeat see p. 308, and a little port wine may be added to the gravy. Time to roast, 20 to 30 minutes. 1169. Boiled or Steamed Pigeon This is not a very usual way of cooking a pigeon, but it makes a nice change when the birds are plentiful, and when served with a good sauce, a boiled or steamed pigeon makes a very tasty dish. Prepare the pigeon in the same way as you would a fowl or chicken for boiling, rub it all over with cut lemon, wrap it in greased paper and boil as directed for Boiled Fowl (Recipe 1127). It is always better if the pigeon can be boiled in stock instead of water. The time required will depend on the age of the bird and also upon the kind, some of the wild pigeons being much tougher than a Bordeaux pigeon. As a rule f to 1 hour will be sufficient. When ready, serve on a hot dish, removing the trussing string, and mask with celery, parsley, soubise, or any other sauce preferred. The dish may be garnished with little rolls of bacon. If the pigeon is steamed instead of boiled, longer time must be allowed for cooking it. 1170. Grilled Pigeons with Orange Sauce (Pigeons Grilles, Sauce a l’Orange) 2 pigeons. Butter. I Pepper. Salt. White bread-crumbs. ] Watercress. Lemon. Prepare the pigeons as directed in Recipe 1168, and split them open without separating the two halves. Flatten them slightly with a cutlet bat, brush them over with melted butter, and season with pepper and salt. Then place them on a tin and cook in a good oven for 10 minutes. When lightly browned, take them out, coat them with bread-crumbs and sprinkle with a little more butter. Finish cooking them on the grill, turning them from side to side until nicely browned. Serve the pigeons on a hot dish, garnished with watercress and half slices of lemon. Serve orange or tartare sauce separately. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. 1171. Stewed Pigeons with Macaroni 2 pigeons. 1 oz. dripping or butter. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. pt. brown stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 3 or 4 oz. macaroni. Clean the pigeons and cut each one in four pieces. Season them with pepper and salt and coat them with the flour. Melt the batter or drip- ping in a stewpan, put in the joints of pigeon with the chopped onion and cook over the fire or in the oven until well browned. Then add the stock and a little wine if wished, and allow the contents of the saucepan to simmer slowly until the pigeons are tender. About 20 minutes before they are ready, add the macaroni, parboiled and cut in small pieces, and cook this with the pigeons for the remainder of the time. Add more seasoning if necessary and serve very hot, sprinkling the chopped parsley over Note.—-Spaghetti may be used instead of mac- aroni. Time to cook, 1 to 1| hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1172. Potted Pigeons 3 pigeons. A little bacon fat. 1 oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 oz. flour. Salt. Pepper. 3 gills stock. A small bunch of herbs. | 6 bread croutons. Singe and draw the pigeons, and wipe them inside and out with a damp cloth. Season them with salt and truss them into shape with a needle and string. Then place them on a roasting tin, rub the breasts with bacon fat and brown them quickly in the oven. Meanwhile prepare a sauce. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the onion finely chopped and fry it a fight brown. Mix in the flour, pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Add pepper, salt, and any other seasoning desired. Now put the browned pigeons into this sauce, cover with a fid, and cook very slowly at the side of the fire or in the oven until the birds are tender. When ready, remove the pigeons, take out the trussing string, and cut them in halves. Serve each half on a crouton of fried bread, skim the sauce and strain it over. A dish of macaroni or rice would be a good accompaniment to this dish.