INVALID COOKERY When vegetables are given they must be as fresh as possible, well cooked, and delicately served. They must be cooked until tender, and then served immediately and very hot. For directions for cooking the different vegetables (see under “ Vegetables ”). Among the most suit- able recipes for an invalid diet may be quoted the following :—Asparagus ; Brussel Sprouts with Butter ; Cauliflower ; Cauliflower Souffle ; Celery, Stewed; Celery with. Cream Sauce; Endive, Stewed; Endive with Cream; French Beans & la Maitre d’Hotel; Leeks, Stewed; Lettuce, Stewed; Onion, Boiled; Onion, Puree of; Pota- toes, Boiled, Steamed, or Baked; Potato Puree; Potato Souffle ; Potato Snowflakes ; Rice, Boiled ; Sea-Kale with Cream Sauce ; Spaghetti, Stewed ; Spinach with Butter ; Spinach with Cream. PART III INVALID MEAT DISHES INTRODUCTORY Fowl, or rather chicken, comes about first in the order of digestibility, and the white meat of the breast and wings is more tender than the legs. Game is also good and forms a nice variety, but it should not be high. Pheasant, partridge, grouse, or woodcock are among the most suitable. The white meat of a turkey, or a tender young pigeon may also be given before butcher’s meat. Ducks and geese should be avoided, as they are too rich in fat. A young rabbit will sometimes form a nice change, but it is not considered of very much value in the sick-room, and requires very careful cooking. With regard to the other meats, mutton gener- ally comes first in the order of digestibility in this country, and then beef. Young meats, such as veal and lamb, are not considered so digestible, and they are more difficult to masticate. Pork should never be given to an invalid, although bacon, if lightly toasted or well boiled or steamed, supplies a wholesome form of fat. Other salted meats should never be given. Of the internal meats, liver, kidney, and heart are too close in fibre to be digestible, but tripe and sweetbread are both light and nourishing, if well cooked. Brains are also light and delicate, but there is little nourishment in them. Boiling, grilling, steaming, and roasting are the best methods of cooking meat for an invalid. Stewing and frying are not so suitable. All white meats must be thoroughly cooked, although beef and mutton are sometimes more digestible if under- done. Warmed-up meats are not so wholesome as those that are freshly cooked. 2534. J lb. lean, juicy beef. £ oz. butter. | oz. flour. Beef Cream £ gill stock, or beef-tea. 2 table-sps. of cream. Pepper and salt. Wipe the beef with a damp cloth, and shred it down very finely with a sharp knife. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add to it the flour, and mix with a wooden spoon until smooth. Then pour on the stock, and stir until boiling and 535 thoroughly cooked. Put this panada into a mortar with the shred beef, and pound well together. Add the whole egg and seasoning, aqd pound again until as smooth as possible. Then rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve into a basin, and scrape the sieve well underneath. Add to the mixture the cream, and taste it to see that it is sufficiently seasoned. Have ready a small basin well greased, put the mixture into it, and shake it down. Cover the basin with a piece of greased paper, and steam the cream very gently until it is firm to the touch. Turn out on a hot plate, with a piece of paper remove any grease from the top, and serve plain, or with a little beef-tea heated and poured round. Time to steam, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2535. Beef or Mutton Quenelles 4 to 6 oz. best steak or lean mutton. 2 table - sps. bread - crumbs. 1 egg. A little beef-tea or stock Seasoning. Wipe the meat, and remove all fat from it. Shred it down finely, or pass it through a mincing machine, and put it into a mortar with the bread-crumbs, egg, and seasoning, and pound well together. Add a little beef-tea or stock, but keep the mixture stiff enough to form into quenelles. When the mixture is well pounded, rub all through a fine wire sieve, using two iron spoons—one to rub through with, and the other to scrape underneath the sieve. Scrape underneath the sieve every now and then, as it gets clogged. Shape the mixture into que- nelles (see Recipe 1099), and lay them in a greased pan or tin, pour in very gently enough boiling water to come half-way up the quenelles, and cover with a round of greased paper. Poach slowly until they have lost their raw appearance and are firm to the touch. Lift out, and drain for a minute on a clean cloth. Then serve, either plain, with a piece of dry toast, or dish on a neat square of toast, and pour some hot beef-tea round them. Note.—Veal, chicken, or game quenelles may be made in the same way. - Time to poach, 10 to 12 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2536. Fillets of Beef Sautes 6 oz. fillet steak. I 1 tomato. £ oz. butter. I Pepper and salt. Cut the steak into two neat pieces, trimming away the skin and untidy edges. Season with pepper and salt. Wipe the tomato, and with a sharp knife cut it in six or eight sections, removing the stalk. Melt the butter in a small frying-pan, and, when smoking hot, put in the fillets; fry them a minute or two on each side until brown, then add the pieces of tomato. Cover the frying pan with a plate or lid, and let all cook slowly for 10 or 12 minutes. Serve the meat with the pieces of tomato round, and the gravy poured over it. Time to cook, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. or 9d. 2537. Minced Beef 6 oz. best rump steak. crumbs. £ gill of cold water. Pepper and salt. 1 table - sp. bread- Sippets of toast. Choose the beef, and select a nice juicy piece. Either get the butcher to mince it for you, or re-