COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 502 2310. Petites Cremes de Monte Carlo Mixture. 2 table-sps. smoked haddock. 1 table-sp. white sauce. 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 2 table-sps. liquid aspic. Seasoning. For Decoration. Aspic jelly. Tongue. Truffle. Salad. Required—5 or 6 small card moulds. Take 5 or 6 small card-shaped moulds, and line them at the bottom with a thin coating of liquid aspic jelly. When this is set, decorate them to resemble cards, cutting out the clubs and spades from thin slices of truffle, and the hearts and diamonds from thin slices of cooked tongue, with little cutters suitable to the purpose. Set the decoration with a little more liquid aspic. To Make the Mixture.—Use cooked smoked haddock free from skin and bone, chop it finely, pound it in a mortar with the white sauce, and then rub it through a sieve. Put this puree into a basin and add to it 2 table-spoonfuls liquid aspic. This must be stiff aspic in order to set the mixture; if not sufficiently so, dissolve in it about f a sheet of gelatine first. Lastly, stir in the whipped cream and season to taste. Place the mixture in a cool place or on ice until beginning to set; then fill up the little moulds and set them aside until firm. If any mixture is over, it may be used in the dishing up. Turn out the moulds when required, and ar- range them neatly on a silver dish, garnishing with salad and chopped aspic. Note.—Other cream mixtures may be used in place of the smoked haddock, and this dish may also be served as a cold entree. PART II SMALL HOT SAVOURIES 2311. Anchovy Croutes 4 filleted anchovies. 1 hard-boiled egg. Coralline pepper. \ tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. (Crofites aux Anchois) 1 dessert-sp. butter. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Croutons fried bread. Wipe the anchovies and chop the hard-boiled egg, reserving a little of the white for decoration. Pound the anchovies and egg together with the butter and seasoning, and rub them through a sieve. Have ready some round or oval-shaped croutons of fried bread (see Recipe 2245), spread them rather thickly with the mixture, and place them in the oven to become very hot. Decorate the croutes with finely-chopped parsley, chopped white of egg, and coralline pepper, and serve them on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. 2312. Anchovy Fingers 1 tea-sp. anchovy paste 2 table-sps. grated Par- mesan. 1 yolk of egg. Coralline pepper. (D’Artois aux Anchois) 1 table-sp. melted butter or cream. 3 or 4 oz. puff pastry. Beaten egg. Mix the anchovy paste, cheese, and yolk of egg together with the cream or melted butter. Season with coralline or cayenne pepper, and set the mixture aside until very cold. Then roll out some puff pastry very thinly and cut it in two strips from 3 to 4 inches in width. Spread one of the pieces to about \ inch from the edge with the anchovy mixture, brush the other piece of pastry over with beaten egg, and lay it on the top. Press the two together, brush over with beaten egg, and cut across in finger-shaped pieces. Bake them in a good oven until well browned and thoroughly cooked. 2313. Anchovy Fritters (Beignets d’Anchois) Filleted anchovies. Cayenne pepper. Lemon juice. Salad oil. Frying batter. Chopped parsley. Take as many filleted anchovies as required, wash them in warm water, anc) dry them, then curl them round into a neat little roll. Sprinkle these little rolls with cayenne, salad oil, and a few drops of lemon juice or tarragon vinegar, and let them stand for J hour. Then dip them into frying batter (Recipe 1863), and fry them in boding fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, and serve pded up on a hot dish sprinkled with finely-chopped parsley. Place a few thin slices of lemon round the dish. 2314, Anchovy Rolls (Rissolettes d’Anchois) Filleted anchovies. Puff pastry. Coralline pepper. Lemon juice. Beaten egg. Grated Parmesan. Roll out some scraps of puff pastry very thinly, and cut it in oblong-shaped pieces the length and twice the width of a filleted anchovy. Wash and dry the anchovies, season them with coralline pepper and lemon juice, and lay a fillet on each piece of pastry. Moisten round the edges with beaten egg, cover the anchovy with the pastry, and roll with slightly floured fingers into pencil- shaped pieces. Lay these on a greased tin, brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle with grated Parmesan and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. 2315. Anchovies on Toast, 1 (Anchois sur Croutes) Filleted anchovies. I Toast. Butter. Pepper. Lemon juice. I Chopped parsley. Wash some filleted anchovies in warm water and dry them lightly in a cloth. Prepare some neat fingers of hot buttered toast, and lay a filleted anchovy on each. Season them with pepper (coralline pepper would look nice) and lemon juice, lay small pieces of butter on the top, and sprinkle with finely-chopped parsley. Heat the croutes in the oven and serve at once on a lace-edged paper. Note.—This savoury may be varied by using fried bread or little rounds of pastry instead of the toast. Also by spreading the croute first with a little savoury butter, such as shrimp, curry, lobster, &c., before laying on the anchovy. Or again, the croute may be made round or heart- shaped and the anchovy curled on the top.