COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 437 saucepan with the water, and let it simmer slowly at the side of the fire to extract the flavour. Mix the cornflour smoothly with a little oold water, and then strain the water from the rind slowly on to it, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook about 10 minutes, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the sugar, butter, the strained juice of the fruit, and lastly the egg well beaten. Mix together and pour all into a wet mould. Put in a cool place to set, and when wanted turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1956. Pine-apple Mould 1 gill pine-apple syrup. 2 whites of eggs. Sugar to taste. 4 oz. cornflour. 1 qt. milk. 1 cupful pine-apple cut in dice. Put the cornflour into a basin and break it smoothly with a little of the milk. Heat the rest of the milk in a saucepan, and pour it over the corn- flour, stirring all the time. Then return all to the saucepan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly from 8 to 10 minutes to cook the cornflour thoroughly. Meanwhile cut some tinned pine-apple in small dice, and whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. When the cornflour is sufficiently cooked, remove the saucepan from the fire and mix in the pine-apple, the syrup, and then add sugar if necessary. Lastly, stir in the beaten whites very lightly. Pour the mixture into wet moulds, and put them in a cool place to set. When required, turn out and serve with custard or pine- apple sauce. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOef. 1957. Raspberry and Red Currant Mould | lb. raspberries. I 4 to 6 oz. sugar. | lb. red currants. Cornflour. 1 pt. water. Prepare the fruit carefully, put it into a sauce- pan with the sugar and water, and stew slowly until soft, pressing the fruit occasionally with the back of a wooden spoon in order to extract all the juice. Then strain through a hair sieve. When all the juice has run through, measure it and allow 2 oz. cornflour to the pint. Put the juice into a saucepan, mix the cornflour to a smooth paste with a little water, mix all together and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly about 10 minutes, then pour into a wet mould, and keep in a cool place until set. Turn out when wanted, and serve plain or with custard sauce. Note.—Fine sago or tapioca may be used instead of cornflour to stiffen the juice. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. 1958. Rhubarb Fool Make in the same way as Gooseberry Fool (Re- cipe 1952), using rhubarb in place of gooseberries. 1959. Rhubarb and Sago Mould 1 lb. rhubarb. 3 oz. sugar. 1 pt. water. Flavouring. 2 oz. fine sago. A few drops of carmine. Wipe the rhubarb with a damp cloth and, if coarse, peel it. Cut it into short lengths, and put it into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and sago well washed. Simmer slowly until the rhubarb is cooked, and the sago is quite clear. Add a little grated lemon rind, a few drops of ratafia or other flavouring to taste, pour the mixture into a wet mould and set aside until cold and firm. When wanted, turn out, and serve with cream, or custard sauce. Note.—Fine tapioca may be used instead of sago. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 3d. 1960. Rice Mould Make the same rice mixture as directed for Rice Surprises (see below), and put it into one large mould, omitting the jam. When cold and set, turn out and serve with custard or jam. 1961. Rice Surprises 3 oz. rice.- | 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-cupful water. Flavouring. 1 pt. milk. 2 oz. sugar, i Some jam. Wash the rice in several waters and put it into a saucepan with a tea-cupful of fresh cold water. Let it boil quickly until the water is absorbed, then add the milk and butter. Simmer slowly until the rice is thoroughly cooked and the mixture rather thick. Stir occasionally, as it will be in- clined to stick to the foot of the saucepan. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar and flavouring. Rinse out some small cups or dariole moulds with cold water, three- quarters fill them with the rice, and make a little hollow in the centre. Put a tea-spoonful of any nice jam into eaoh, cover and fill up with more rice, and set aside to cool. When firm, turn out on a glass dish, and serve with custard sauce poured round. Time to cook, about £ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1962. Sago Snow 3 table-sps. small sago. I 2 eggs. 1 gill water. | \ pt. milk. 1 pt. milk. 1 Sugar and flavouring. Wash the sago, put it into a saucepan with the water and bring it to the boil. Simmer a few minutes, and add the pint of milk. Continue to cook slowly until the sago is quite soft and clear, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and add sugar and flavouring to taste. Allow this mixture to cool, and pour it into a crystal or china dish. Now beat up the whites of the two eggs to a stiff froth, and poach this in spoonfuls in \ pint hot milk