30 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD The Position.—Whenever possible a larder should have a northerly or easterly aspect and compara- tive absence of bright sunshine. It is important, too, that it should be conveniently near the kitchen, although not near enough to be influenced by the heat of the range nor hot-water boiler. It should never be placed near a lavatory ; neither should the window overlook that part of the premises where the gulleys to receive the contents of the waste-pipes are placed. Ventilation and Temperature.—There should be one or more windows with which to ventilate the larder. If there are two, one should be glazed to let in light and the other should be fitted with wire gauze or perforated zinc, fine enough to exclude all flies. If there is only one window it should be kept open constantly, and a piece of muslin should be stretched tightly across it to keep out flies and dust. There should be a thorough ventilation, and some- times it is advisable to have one of the panels of the door fitted with perforated zinc in order to secure the necessary draught. Or sometimes per- forated bricks are let into the walls, which help considerably to ventilate the larder. The temperature of the larder should not exceed 50° F. in summer, nor fall below 38° F. in winter. Of course it is not always possible to regulate the temperature at will, but still with a little contriv- ance one can often manage to arrive approxi- mately near these figures. Arrangements and Fittings.—The ceiling should be lime- or white-washed. The walls too, if they are not tiled, should be lime- or white-washed or painted with some sanitary paint which can easily be washed. It is very important that no holes or crevices should be left in the walls through which mice and beetles may enter. When these appear, they should at once be filled up with cement or putty. The shelves are best made of stone, marble, or slate, although wooden ones are very often fitted for the sake of economy. In any case it is well to have a slab of slate or marble on which special things, such as butter and milk, can be placed to keep them cool. For the convenience of hanging meat, poultry, &c., strong hooks should be securely fixed in the ceiling or hung from rods of iron running from side to side of the larder. A few smaller hooks should also be fixed to the shelves or walls. All fittings should be as simple in construction as possible, so that they can easily be washed and cleaned. Useful Requisites.—A wire rack, baskets, or wooden boxes for holding vegetables; bags of netting for lemons, a bread pan, one or two earthenware pans for milk with pieces of muslin to cover them, wire covers for cold meat and fish, odd cups, basins, plates, and dishes, also a few muslin bags for holding meat, hams, &c., or some improvised meat safes made of muslin bags stretched out by wooden hoops. A refrigerator is an advantage in a larder but by no means a necessity, except in large establishments or in houses where ices are largely used (see Ices). Daily Inspection of the Larder.—Whatever else may have to be neglected in a house, a daily visit to the larder, or what constitutes the larder, should never be dispensed with. It is of the utmost im- portance that the food which is to nourish our bodies be kept in good condition and free from all im- urities, or bad health and even poisoning might e the result. Besides the necessity from a health point of view, a visit to the larder is helpful in making up the bill of fare for the day, as all “ left- overs ” should be considered before new material is ordered, also the utilisation of scraps. The condition of all food being kept, such as game, poultry, vegetables, stock, fruit, &c., must be looked into and nothing allowed to waste. Then, what is of paramount importance, the clean- liness of the larder must have the strictest attention, as nothing tends to destroy food more quickly than dirty and unhealthy conditions. Cleanliness.—Absolute cleanliness should be main- tained in the larder by daily and weekly cleaning. Daily Cleaning.—(1) Wipe over the shelves with a damp cloth and put food, not being used immedi- ately for cooking, on clean plates and dishes. (2) Wipe over the floor also with a damp cloth or with a brush with a damp cloth or swab tied over it. (Sweeping and dusting must never be done while food is in the larder, as it simply raises the dust to let it fall afterwards on the food.) (3) Wipe out the bread pan. (4) Burn any scraps of fish, bones, or meat, vege- tables, &c., that are not quite fresh. Weekly Cleaning.—A special day should be chosen for this: (1) Remove all food from the larder. (2) Sweep and dust the wall3 and floor, gather up the dust, and burn it. (3) When the dust has settled, dust and scrub the shelves and wash the window and any wire gauze or perforated zinc that covers it, using car- bolic soap, or, if the weather is hot, some disinfect- ant may be added to the water, such as carbolic, Jeyes’ fluid, Sanitas, or Izal. (4) Scrub floor with soft soap or carbolic soap and water. (5) Leave door and window open to dry the place, as damp is most detrimental to food. When dry, replace the dishes of food. (6) Thoroughly wash out the bread pan and leave it to dry and air before returning the bread. (7) In hot weather hang up bags of powdered charcoal or place bowls of disinfectant on the shelves. Occasionally.—(1) White-wash or lime-wash the ceiling about every six months. (2) Scald and scrub meat hooks and wire meat covers. (3) Wash muslin covers when necessary. (4) Fill up any cracks or mouse holes with cement, and place traps when necessary. To keep Food without a Larder.—In many small houses and flats there is no proper larder, and one cupboard has to serve the purpose of larder and store room, and sometimes as a place for keeping dishes as well. When this is the case the quantities ordered must be as small as possible, and cleanliness and order are all the more necessary. If the shelves are made of wood it is a good plan to have them covered with white oil-cloth, as this can so easily be wiped over, or washed. In addition to this cupboard, a meat safe should be provided and placed either outside or in a cool place. Needless to say, it should not be placed anywhere near a lavatory. A small