159 VEGETABLES AND SALADS 549. Potatoes au Gratin (Pommes de Terre au Grattn) 3 cupfuls cooked pota- toes. 1 to 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 cupful milk. 2 yolks of eggs. £ lb. grated cheese. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs. Put the milk and butter into a saucepan and heat them over the fire. Sieve the potatoes and add them with most of the cheese and the yolks of eggs. Mix well together and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Pour the mixture into a greased fireproof dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese, mixed with the bread- crumbs, on the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter and brown in the oven. Or, the mixture may be made very hot in the saucepan, then the surface browned in front of the fire or under the grill of a gas stove. Note.—The yolks of eggs may be omitted and dripping used instead of butter. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 550. Potatoes a la MaPre d’Hotel (Pommes de Terre a la Maitre d’Hfitel) 4 or 5 cooked potatoes. 2table-sps. cream or white stock. 1 oz. butter. White pepper, salt. 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. A pinch of nutmeg. ' Waxy potatoes are better for this method of cooking than those that are very mealy. Cut the potatoes into slices rather less than £ of an inch in thickness. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the parsley, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nut- meg, and mix in the lemon juice gradually. Then put in the sliced potatoes, cover the saucepan and toss the contents over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Add the cream or stock, heat through and serve at once. Note.—New potatoes may be treated in this way, and if small may be left whole, fficient for 2 or 3 persons. 551. Potatoes with Parsley Sauce 1 lb. small potatoes. £ pt. parsley sauce. Choose small potatoes, or cut larger ones in pieces. Steam or boil them, being careful they do not break in pieces. A waxy type of potato is really the best for the purpose. Make £ pint of parsley sauce (see Recipe 700) and add the potatoes to it. Turn them gently over and over and cook them a minute or two. Then serve in a hot vegetable dish. Note.—Other sauces may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 552. Potato Puree (Puree de Pommes de Terre) £ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. 3 or 4 table-sps. of hot milk. White pepper, salt. _ The potatoes used must be dry and mealy. Sieve them or put them through a vegetable presser. Heat the milk with the butter in a sauce- pan, add the sieved potato and beat them together until white and light, season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. The puree should be of the consistency of thick cream. Cream or stock may be used instead of milk, or a little whipped cream may be stirred in lightly at the last. Finely chopped parsley may be added if liked. Serve the puree in a hot vegetable dish. 553. Potato Roses, Rings, &c. (Pommes de Terre a la Duchesse) Make the same mixture as for Potatoes k la Duchesse (see Recipe 547), but make it moister by adding more milk. Put this potato puree into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe on the end of it Potato Roses and Rings and force it out on a greased tin in roses, rings, or any other shape that is fancied. Brush them over very lightly with beaten egg, and brown in the oven. Then lift them carefully on to a hot dish with a dish paper on it and garnish with parsley. 554. Sauted Potatoes (Pommes de Terre Sautees) 4 or 5 cooked potatoes. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. ’ Salt, white pepper. The potatoes must be dry and not overcooked. Cut them in slices about £ inch in thickness. Melt the butter in a saute pan or frying pan, put in the slices of potato and toss them about until nicely browned on both sides. Sprinkle them with pepper, salt, and the chopped parsley. Turn them into a hot vegetable dish and pour the browned butter over them. Note.—Bacon fat may be used instead of butter, and if a little fried bacon is served along with the potatoes, they will make a very good supper dish. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 555. A Potato Stew 6 or 8 potatoes. 1 large onion. 2 oz. butter or dripping. | pt. milk. 1 gill water. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Salt, pepper. A small bunch of herbs. 1 grated carrot. Choose potatoes of medium size, wash, peel, and cut them in quarters. Peel and slice the onion very thinly, and prepare and grate the carrot. Melt about 2 oz. of dripping, butter, or other fat in a stewpan, put in the potatoes and onion as dry as possible, and cook them a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Then add half the milk, the water, seasoning, and grated carrot. Mix together, put the lid on the saucepan and stew slowly until the vegetables are tender. When sufficiently cooked, lift out the potatoes and place them in a hot dish. Mix the flour smoothly with the remainder of the milk and add it to the re- maining contents of the saucepan, lifting out the