294 COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 1198. Rabbit with Mushrooms, 2 (Lapin Saute aux Champignons) 1 tender rabbit. 1 doz. mushrooms. 1 small onion. 1 table - sp. chopped parsley. 2 oz. fat bacon. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Stock or water. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Wash the rabbit carefully, dry it and cut in small neat joints. Peel the mushrooms, wash them and cut them in small pieces. Slice the onion very thinly, chop the parsley, and cut the bacon in small pieces. Now put the butter and bacon into a stewpan and cook them together until the fat is well drawn out of the latter. Then put in the mushrooms, onion and parsley, and when these have cooked a few minutes add the joints of rabbit. Season with pepper, salt, and a little spice, and pour in the stock or water. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly in the oven or by the side of the fire until the rabbit is tender. When ready, lift out the rabbit on to a hot dish and keep it warm. Mix the flour smoothly with a little stock or water and add it to the liquid in the saucepan. Stir until boiling and skim well. Then draw the saucepan to one side and add the yolks of eggs and lemon juice. Pour this sauce over the rabbit and garnish with croutons of toast or fried bread. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1199. Fillets of Rabbit with Chestnut Puree (Filets de Lapereau aux Marrons) 1 young rabbit. Marinade. 2 table-sps. salad oil. | gill good vinegar. 1 small carrot. 1 small onion. 1 bay-leaf. A sprig of thyme. 3 or 4 peppercorns. Pepper. Salt. A little butter. 1 glass red wine. 2 or 3 table-sps. brown sauce. Puree of chestnuts. Choose a young and tender rabbit, remove the flesh from the back and cut it into small neat pieces. (The rest of the rabbit is not required for this dish.) Flatten the fillets slightly with a knife and put them in a deep dish. Sprinkle them with the oil and add the carrot and onion cut in small pieces, the peppercorns, bay-leaf, and thyme. Heat the vinegar and pour it boiling hot over the fillets of rabbit, cover and set aside until cold. Prepare a puree of chestnuts (Recipe 1628), adding to it a pinch of sugar, a little stock, and a small piece of butter. A few minutes before serving, lift the pieces of rabbit out of the marinade, dry them in a cloth and sprinkle them lightly with salt. Melt a little butter in a frying or saute pan and fry the pieces of rabbit in this until they are nicely browned and sufficiently cooked. Then pile the puree of chestnuts in a hot dish and arrange the fillets of rabbit round. Pour the following sauce over and round the fillets. Sauce.—Pour the wine into the saucepan in which the rabbit was cooked, also a little of the liquid from the marinade. Reduce this to about half the quantity, then add the brown sauce. Skim if necessary and strain through a fine strainer. Time to cook, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 1200. Fillets of Rabbit & la Carnot (Filets de Lapin it la Carnot) 1 rabbit. Cold water. 2 or 3 onions. A bunch of herbs. 2 or 3 cloves. \ doz. peppercorns. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. i pt. liquor from rabbit. 1 oz. Parmesan cheese. Juice of | lemon. J gill cream. 2 or 3 chillies. Cut the four legs from the rabbit, and reserve these for some other dish. Remove the fillets from the back, and cut them into 6 or 8 neat pieces. Then break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with a little salt, and enough cold water to cover them. Bring to the boil and skim well. Add the onions cut in slices, the cloves, peppercorns, and bunch of herbs. Place the fillets of rabbit on the top, cover with greased paper, and stew slowly for 1 \ hours, or until the meat is tender. Then lift out the fillets and strain the liquor into a basin. To Make the Sauce.—Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, add the flour, and mix until smooth. Then pour in \ pint liquor from the rabbit, and stir until boiling. Add the cheese, pepper, salt and cream. Cook for 10 or 15 minutes, and rub through a tammy or hair sieve. Return the sauce to the pan, add the pieces of rabbit, the chillies chopped, and the lemon juice strained. Make all thoroughly hot, then serve the pieces of rabbit in the centre of a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Garnish with prettily shaped croutons of fried bread dipped in a little melted glaze or white of egg, and sprinkled with coralline pepper. Time to cook, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. 1201. Rabbit Cream (Creme de Lapin) Make in the same way as Veal Cream (Recipe 1096), using rabbit flesh in place of the veal. 1202. Galantine of Rabbit 1 rabbit. | lb. sausage meat. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Rind of £ lemon. Seasoning. A little glaze. Bone the rabbit as directed on p. 291. Spread it out on a board and trim and arrange it so that it forms a neat oblong, putting all the scraps in the middle. Then season with pepper and salt. Cut the bacon in strips free from rind and rust, and the hard-boiled eggs in 6 or 8 pieces. Add the chopped parsley and the grated rind of £ a lemon to the sausage meat, also a little more season- ing if necessary, and mix well together. Spread the sausage meat over the rabbit, arrange the hard-boiled egg and bacon on the top and roll up. Wrap and tie up firmly in a pudding cloth like a roly-poly, and simmer slowly in the stock pot, or in stock made with the bones of the rabbit and some flavouring vegetables, until tender. 'When the galantine is ready, lift it out and re-roll it, tightening the cloth, then press it between two dishes with a weight on the top until cold. Now remove the cloth and glaze the galantine nicely