POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 297 £ hour. Add more seasoning if necessary, and serve garnished with sippets of toast or small forcemeat balls. Serve red-currant jelly separately. Note.—A little red-currant jelly and port wine may be added to the sauce if wished. 1213. GSteau of Hare or Rabbit £ lb. cooked rabbit or hare. 2 oz. fat bacon. £ lb. bread-crumbs. 1 gill stock. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 dessert-sp. red-currant jeUy. Seasoning. Brown sauce Put the bread-crumbs into a saucepan with the stock, and cook them, a few minutes over the file until the bread-crumbs swell and thicken the mix- ture. Take some remains of cooked hare or rabbit, remove the bones carefully, and then weigh £ lb. Put this meat once or twice through the mincer along with the bacon, and then pound it well in a mortar with the soaked bread-crumbs. Season to taste, add the yolks of eggs and red-currant jelly and pound again. Then, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put the mix- ture into a well-greased mould and steam until it feels firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with a good brown sauce poured round. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. To Goolc the Terrine.—Place it in a deepish tin with a little cold water round it, and bring this to the boil over the fire. Then place it in the oven and cook until the meat is ready. The water round the terrine should be kept boiling all the time; if it boils away, more boiling water must be added— not cold, as it would crack the pot; for the same reason it must not be allowed to become dry. The meat may be tested by running in a needle through the hole in the top, or if, on removing the cover, the fat on the top looks quite clear and the meat moves about easily without adhering to the bottom and sides, it is sufficiently cooked. When ready, put a small piece of wood (cut to fit inside the pot) on the top, with a light weight over it, and press until cold. Notes.—A terrine like this will keep good for two or three months in cold weather, as long as the fat on the top is left intact. Other kinds of game may be used instead of hare. Time to cook, 2 to 2£ hours. 1215. Timbale of Hare (Timbale de Lievre) f lb. cooked hare. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ gill stock. 1 egg. Brown sauce. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. chopped ham. 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. 1 yolk of egg. Madeira sauce. 1214. Terrine of Hare (Terrine de Lievre) I lb. hare meat. 1 lb. fine sausage meat. Slices of fat bacon. Salt. Pepper. A little butter. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 glass white wine or 2 table-sps. brandy. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley A little thyme. Any remains of uncooked hare may be used to make a “terrine.” Remove all bones, trim the flesh and cut it in small pieces, and then weigh it. Heat the butter in a saucepan, put in the meat and cook it a minute or two to harden the outside; it must not brown. Then put the pieces on a plate and season them well with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, a little chopped thyme and parsley, and the wine or brandy. If time permits, allow this mixture to stand for an hour or two to marinate. The sausage meat used must be very fine and smooth ; if not sufficiently so when bought, it should be put through the mincer and well pounded. Sometimes it is sieved as well. Add to it the liquid from the meat and, if there is any, the blood from the hare, or the liver pounded and sieved. This latter is to give the farce the taste and darkish colour of the game. Mix these in- gredients well into the farce, then add the meat and mix again. Now line a terrine, the bottom and sides, with thin slices of fat bacon, then put in the mixture, which should fill it and form a mound on the top as well, so as to fill the lid, which is generally rounded. Cover the top with more fat bacon and put on the lid. Seal round the join of lid and pot with a paste made of flour and water, so as to keep in all the flavour of the meat while it is cooking. Be most particular to see that the little hole in the top of the lid is left open, otherwise the terrine would burst in the cooking; if there happens to be no hole in the lid, leave a small piece of the join unsealed. Weigh the hare free from skin and bone, cut about £ lb. of it in tiny dice and put the remainder once or twice through a mincing machine. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and stock, add it to the minced hare, and pound all together in a mortar. Season with pepper, salt, and a little ground mace and nutmeg. Moisten with the egg and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and pound again. Then rub all through a wire sieve. Mix the hare that was cut in dice with the chopped ham and mushroom. Season and moisten with the yolk of an egg and a little brown sauce. Then well grease a timbale mould and line it carefully with the sieved mixture. Put the chopped mixture in the centre and cover with the sieved mixture. Cover the mould with greased paper and steam steadily until firm to the touch. AVhen ready, turn out and serve with Sauoe Madere or a good brown sauce strained over and round. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 oe 5 persons. VENISON This is the flesh of deer. There are three different kinds to be had in this country, that of the red deer, roe deer, and fallow deer. The flesh of the fallow deer is considered the best, and the buck is superior in quality to the doe. Buck venison is in season from June to the end of September, while from October to the end of December is the season for the doe. The flesh of venison should be dark and finely grained, and the fat firm, clear, and white. It should be well hung before using, in order to acquire a game flavour (see p. 31). The age can be judged by the hoof ; in the young animal the cleft is small and smooth, while in the older one it has become much deeper and more