505 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES until brown and crisp. Drain them well and keep them warm. Put the butter, milk, or cream and bread-crumbs into a small saucepan and bring them to the boil. Then add the cheese, yolk of egg and seasoning, and make all thoroughly hot, but do not boil again. Put some of this mixture into each croustade, cover with a little whipped white of egg, smoothing it over with a knife, and place the croustades in the oven for a minute or two or until lightly browned. Note.—The white of egg may be omitted. 2333. Cheese Fritters, 1 (Beignets au Fromage) Prepare the same mixture as for Aiguilles au Parmesan (Recipe 2326), but instead of rubbing it through a sieve drop it in small pieces in the Cheese Fritters boiling fat, and let them fry slowly until well puffed out and lightly browned. Drain and serve sprinkled with grated Parmesan. 2336. Cheese Ramequlns, 1 1 oz. flour. I 3 oz. grated cheese. 1 gill milk. 1 egg. | Seasoning. Mix the milk gradually with the flour, and beat the batter until smooth and light. Then add the egg and cheese, season to taste, and beat again. Half fill small greased ramequin cases with the mix- ture, and bake them in a good oven until brown and well risen. Serve as quickly as possible. 2337. Cheese Ramequins, 2 Make in the same way as Cheese Fondue (Recipe 2408), baking the mixture in small china dishes or paper case3 instead of one large dish. 2338. Cheese Rissoles (Creme Frites au Fromage) 1 oz. cornflour. 1 gill milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 dessert-sp. butter. 3 oz. grated cheese. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mix the cornflour slowly with the milk, turn the two into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire. Simmer slowly for a few minutes, then remove the saucepan from the fire, and mix in the cheese, yolks of eggs, and butter. Season with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard, and spread the mixture on a plate. When cool, form into balls, using a little flour, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat until nicely browned. Serve very hot on a dish paper and sprinkle with grated cheese. 2334. Cheese Fritters, 2 (Beignets au Parmesan) 2 oz. grated Parmesan I 2 whites of eggs. Salt, cheese. | Cayenne pepper. Beat the whites of eggs to a perfectly stiff froth with a pinch of salt and a dust of cayenne. Then stir in quickly and lightly 2 oz. of freshly grated Parmesan cheese. Drop small tea-spoonfuls of the mixture into a saucepan of boiling fat, and cook them until a pretty brown colour (about 5 minutes). Drain well and serve on a dish paper, sprinkled with Paprika pepper and grated cheese. 2335. Cheese Puffs 3 oz. Cheddar cheese. 1 oz. butter. 1 hard-boiled egg. Cayenne pepper. Salt. A little made mustard. Flaky pastry. A little beaten egg. Roll out some flaky pastry rather thinly, and cut it in pieces about 4 inches square. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the cheese finely chopped or shred, the hard-boiled egg chopped, and seasoning. Heat slowly over the fire until thick, but do not boil. Put a little of this mixture in the centre of each square of pastry, moisten the edges with beaten egg, and then bring two opposite corners together so as to make triangular-shaped puffs. Mark round the edges, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve hot with a lace-edged paper under them. 2339. Cream Cheese Savoury 2 table-sps. cream cheese 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. A little butter. Cayenne pepper. Salt. Plain biscuits. This is a very good way of using up the remains of cream cheese. Put the cheese into a small basin, and break it up with a fork or spoon, working in a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Add the cream and season with cayenne and a little salt. Stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water, and make the contents thoroughly hot over the fire. Butter 5 or 6 water or toast biscuits, heat them in the oven until brown and crisp, then pour the cream cheese mixture over them. 2340. Cheese Souffle (Souffle au Parmesan) 1 oz. butter. | oz. flour. 1 £ oz. Cheddar cheese, if oz. Parmesan cheese. 1 gill of milk. 2 yolks of eggs. 3 whites of eggs. Pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour, and mix these two well together with a wooden spoon. Pour in the milk, and stir quickly over the fire until the mixture draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the pan from the fire, and add the grated cheese and the seasonings. Next add the yolks, one at a time, and beat well together. Have the whites beaten to a very stiff froth with a wire whisk, and stir them lightly in with an iron spoon. Pour the mixture into small