COLD SWEETS, JELLIES, AND CREAMS 433 ration in keeping with the cream or mixture that is afterwards to be poured in. The following are all suitable—small pieces of cherry, angelica, or other preserved fruits, chopped or shred almonds or pistachio nuts, cocoanut, a little gold or silver leaf, small pieces of fresh fruit, &c. Or, the jelly itself may be coloured in order to contrast prettily with the other mixture—as, for instance, a pink top on the top of a white cream or blanc-mange, or a pale green top on a yellow cream. When the decoration is arranged, pour in very carefully a little more liquid jelly, just sufficient to keep it in position and then set again. One or two spoon- fuls may again be added if wished, but it is better not to make the top too heavy. To Line a Mould with Jelly This is a little more difficult than simply de- corating the top, but it is often required for more elaborate sweets. There are two different ways of lining a mould with jelly. (1) Take a clean mould and place it on broken ice. Pour into it sufficient liquid jelly to cover the bottom, about | of an inch. Allow this to set and decorate it if wished. Then coat the sides by turn- ing the mould slowly round on the ice and coating just a small piece at a time with the liquid jelly. Try to make the coating as even as possible. Some more decoration may be arranged up the sides as well. (2) Take either a double mould (one with an inner lining), or two moulds of the same shape, one smaller than the other. A tumbler will sometimes serve to fit into a plain round mould. Take the larger mould first and line the bottom of it with some jelly, decorating it if wished. When this is set, place the smaller mould evenly in the centre of the larger one and fill it with broken ice or cold water. Fill up the space between with more liquid jelly and let it set. Then remove the inner mould by tipping out the ice or water and warming the inside of it with a cloth wrung out of hot water. Ease it away from the jelly and withdraw it slowly. The larger lined mould is then ready for filling up with any mixture required. To Unmould a Jelly or Cream Take a basin of hot water, hotter than the hand can comfortably bear, and dip the mould quickly into it, allowing the water to cover it for a second (if a china mould is used, a little longer immersion in the water will be necessary). Then wipe the moisture off the mould with a cloth, and loosen the contents away from the sides with the tips of the fingers. Shake the jelly until it seems quite loose in the mould, place the dish on which it is to be served on the top, and reverse both together. Give another slight shake, and draw the mould slowly off. To Chop Jelly The jelly used should be very clear and rather stiff. Turn it on to a sheet of wetted paper, and then with a sharp, clean knife, chop it quickly and as lightly as possible. The amount of chopping is a matter of taste; if done roughly the jelly will have a golden appearance, and when made very fine will look more silvery. This chopped jelly may either be put in a border round any cold sweet, or it may be put into a forcing bag and pipe and used as a garnish in various ways. PART I INEXPENSIVE COLD SWEETS 1934. 1 doz. apples. A lb. sugar. | pt. water. Rind of 1 lemon. Apple Hedgehog 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. 2 doz. sweet almonds. Choose apples of medium size. Peel them and core six of them, leaving them whole. Put | lb. of loaf or granulated sugar into a saucepan with the water and grated rind of one lemon. Bring this to the boil and put in the whole apples. Allow them to cook slowly until they are tender, but not broken. Then lift them out, draining them from the syrup. Now slice down the other six apples and cook them in the same syrup until reduced to a thick pulp. Arrange the" whole apples in a pyramid on a dish, putting the apple pulp between them and making a smooth mound. Then whip up the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and mix the castor sugar very lightly into them. Spread this meringue over the surface of the apples, cover- ing them entirely, and sprinkle with more castor or icing sugar. Blanch and split the almonds and stick them here and there over the top. Then place in a moderate oven until lightly browned. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1935. Apple Whip | pt. apple pulp. I 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. 2 whites of eggs. Have some nice juicy apples stewed to a thick pulp, sweetened and flavoured with lemon. Beat it up until perfectly smooth or rub it through a sieve. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff Apple Whips froth, add them to the apple puree and whisk both together until light and frothy. Stir in 1 or 2 table- spoonfuls of whipped cream at the last and serve in a glass dish or in custard glasses. A few biscuits should be served separately. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1936. Banana 3 or 4 ripe bananas. 2 table-sps. raspberry or strawberry jam. 1J oz. small sago. First put the milk and and heat them over the d Sago Pudding 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. A few drops of vanilla. 1 tea-cupful custard, butter into a saucepan fire. Then sprinkle in 2 E