482 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Care must always be taken in the amount of sugar added; if the mixture is made too sweet it will not freeze properly, and if not sweet enough it will be hard and rough like snow. Examples of various qualities of ice creams are given below, and with a little ingenuity others can easily be invented. Those that are considered too rich may be made less so by substituting custard or milk for some of the cream. 2194. Apple Cream Ice (Glace aux Pommes) 1 lb. apples. 3 oz. sugar. 1 | pt cream or custard. l~ lemon. 1 gill water. I Colouring. Choose good cooking apples. Peel, core, and slice them and put them into a saucepan with the water, sugar, and the rind and juice of the \ lemon. Cook slowly until reduced to a pulp, then rub all through a fine sieve, and allow the puree to cool. Now add to it the custard, or cream lightly whipped, and more sugar if necessary. Colour a pale pink with carmine, or tinge it very slightly with apple or spinach green. Freeze in the usual way. A little liqueur may be added if wished. 2195. Apricot Cream Ice (Glace a la Creme d’Abricots) | pt. apricot puree. | pt. double cream. Sugar to taste. A squeeze of lemon juice. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Make the apricot puree by rubbing tinned apricots through a hair sieve, using some of the syrup. The puree must not be too thick. Mix the cream, lightly whipped, with the puree, and add the lemon juice and enough carmine to make the mixture an apricot colour. Sweeten to taste and freeze as directed on p. 479. A little liqueur may be added if wished. Notes.—Fresh apricots may be used, but they must be stewed until soft in a syrup of sugar and water. A plainer ice may be made by using half custard and half cream. moderate oven until dry and crisp. Make the custard according to Recipe 794, strain and let it cool. Then stir in the cream (whipped), sweeten with castor sugar, and flavour with vanilla and the brandy or noyeau. Put the mixture into the freezing pot, when half frozen stir in the crumbs, and then continue the freezing until sufficiently stiff. 2198. Cherry Ice Cream (Glace a la Creme de Cerises) 1| lbs. cherries. | pt. custard. 1 gill cream. Sugar. Juice of 1 lemon. 1 glass noyeau or a few drops essence of al- monds. Carmine. Choose ripe and juicy cherries. Remove the stalks, wipe them in a clean cloth, and remove the stones. Then pound the cherries in a mortar (a few at a time) and rub them through a fine sieve, j Add the custard and strained lemon juice to the cherry pulp and sweeten to taste. Whip the cream ’ and stir it in lightly, then flavour with noyeau or ; essence of almonds. Add a few of the cherry ^ kernels blanched and chopped, and colour if neces- s sary with a few drops of carmine. Freeze as directed on p. 479. Note.—If the cherries seem hard and rather ' wanting in juice, stew them for a short time in a little syrup of sugar and water. 2199. Chocolate Cream Ice (Glace au Chocolat) 1 pt. custard. pt. double cream. 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. 2 table-sps. milk. Sugar to taste. Vanilla. Grate the chocolate and dissolve it in about 2 table-spoonfuls milk. Make the custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, add the chocolate to it, and strain both together. Whip the cream lightly, mix it with the chocolate custard, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of vanilla. Freeze as directed on p. 479. 2196. Banana Cream lee (Glace de Bananes) 5 bananas. | pt. custard. 1 gill double cream. Sugar. 1 orange. Sugar. 1 table-sp. maraschino. Apricot-yellow. Make the custard according to directions given in Recipe 794, flavouring it with the grated rind of the orange. Choose ripe bananas, peel them, chop them a little, and rub them through a sieve. There should be one gill of pulp when finished. Add to it the strained juice of the orange, and the custard when cold. Mix well, add the cream stiffly whipped, sugar to taste, and 1 table-spoonful mar- aschino or other liqueur. Colour slightly with apricot yellow. Freeze as directed on p. 479. 2197. Brown Bread Cream Ice (Glace au Pain Bis) | pt. custard. pt. cream. £ lb. brown crumbs. Sugar. Vanilla. bread- 1 table-sp. brandy or noyeau. Rub sufficient brown bread through a wire sieve to make i lb. crumbs. Put the crumbs into a 2200. Cocoanut Ice Cream 1 fresh cocoanut. 1 pt. cream. 6 oz. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. vanilla. 1 pt. milk. 3 yolks of eggs. 2 whites of eggs. 1 table-sp. sherry. Remove the cocoanut from the shell, peel off all the brown skin, and then grate it. Cook it for a short time in the milk, then strain it out and make a custard with the milk, eggs, and sugar. Allow the custard to cool, add to it the cream slightly whipped, the vanilla and sherry. Pour this mix- ture into a freezing pot and half freeze it, then add the cocoanut and freeze again until sufficiently hard. 2201. Coffee Cream Ice (Creme au Cafd Glacg) Make in the same way as Vanilla Cream Ice (Recipe 2217), making the custard with equal parts of strong black coffee and milk. A small liqueur glass of kirsch may be added. 2202. Cream Ices with Fruit Purge Very delicious ices can be made by combining an iced cream mixture with some puree of fresh