COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 304 1246. Quails in Cases (Cailles en Caisses) 5 or 6 quails. Liver farce. Truffles. Brown chaudfroid sauce. Aspic jelly. Prepare some liver farce or mock foie gras as directed in Recipe 1271. Then bone the quails and stuff them with the farce, putting a truffle or part of a truffle in the centre of each. Sew them up, making them as neat a shape as possible. Then braise the birds, or poach them in well-flavoured stock until tender. When ready, lift them out, allow them to cool, and remove the trussing threads. Now coat the quails with brown chaud- froid sauce (see Recipe 715), and, when set, place them in little paper or china cases and garnish with chopped aspic jelly. 1247. Ruffs and Reeves These little birds belong to the snipe family, and should be cooked in the same way. The ruff is the male and the reeve the female bird. 1248. Teal and Widgeon (Sarcelles Roties) Follow the directions given for Wild Duck. A widgeon will take from 20 to 25 minutes to roast, and a teal rather longer. 1249. Roast Snipe (BScassines Roties) This little bird is very much esteemed ; it is generally kept until rather high, although some people prefer to use it fresh. Allow one snipe for each person. Pluck them very carefully, as the skin is particularly tender. Do not empty them, only remove the gizzard. The head, too, is kept on. Skin it, remove the eyes and use the long beak for trussing the bird instead of a skewer. Press the legs and wings together, then draw the head round and run the beak through where the legs and wings cross. Brush the snipe over with melted butter, and tie a thin slice of fat bacon over the breast of each. Now roast them in front of the fire or in the oven, basting them well with butter. The time vail depend upon how they are liked, well done or with the flesh red—from 15 to 20 minutes. When ready, serve them on oblong croutons of fried bread, which may be spread with liver farce (cooked chicken, liver and bacon, minced and rubbed through a sieve) or foie gras. Garnish with watercress and small pieces of fresh lemon. Make a good gravy in the roasting tin and serve it separately. Time to roast, 15 to 20 minutes. 1250. Roast Wild Duck (Canard Sauvage R6ti) Prepare and truss in the same way as an ordinary duck, only the feet are generally left on and twisted backwards close to the sides. Roast from 15 to 20 minutes, basting it well. Sometimes a glass of port wine is poured over the duck during the cook- ing. Wild duck is usually left rather underdone. Serve garnished with seasoned watercress and quarters of cut lemon. A good brown sauce flavoured with orange juice, or bigarade sauce (see Recipe 710) should be handed separately. An orange salad is also a favourite accompaniment. Port wine may also be added to the sauce. Time to roast, 20 to 25 minutes. 1251. Wild Duck a la Bigarade (Canard Sauvage a la Bigarade) Prepare and truss the duck as for roasting, and then braise it until tender (see Braising, p. 210). When ready, lift it out, cut it in neat joints, and arrange these on a crouton of fried bread. Mask with bigarade sauce (Recipe 710) and garnish with small sections of orange and glace cherries, heated over hot water. 1252. Roast Woodcock (Becasse Rotie) Follow directions given for Roast Snipe (Recipe 1249). From 20 to 25 minutes will be required to cook them. They must not be overcooked. 1253. Compote of Game 2 plovers or partridges. 1 oz. butter. 2 tomatoes. 1 doz. preserved mush- rooms. 1| gills brown sauce. 1 glass Marsala or sherry. A bunch of herbs. 6 or 8 glace cherries. Fleurons of pastry. Partially roast the birds, and when cool cut them in neat joints, removing the larger bones and as much of the skin as possible. Put the joints into a fireproof terrine or casserole with the mushrooms and cherries sliced or cut in small pieces, and leave these until the sauce is prepared. Melt the butter in another saucepan, put in the wine, and tomatoes cut in pieces, and reduce over the fire. Then add any bones and trimmings from the game, the brown sauce, bunch of herbs and necessary seasoning. Cover and cook about 1 hour. When well flavoured, strain through a fine strainer over the joints of game, &c., and add a small piece of glaze if the sauce is not a good colour. Simmer all together for | hour longer and serve in the terrine garnished with fleurons of pastry. Note.—A few small quenelles and stoned olives may be added to the compote if wished.