583 BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 2804. Orange Cake 6 oz. Vienna flour. The grated rind of 1 orange 3 eggs. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 5 oz. castor sugar. Icing.—I lb. icing sugar, and the juice of 1 orange. Sieve the sugar into a basin, grate the orange rind on the top of it, and rub these two together with the tips of the fingers, until they are thoroughly blended. Add the eggs to the orange sugar, and beat with a wire whisk about 15 minutes until smooth and creamy. Then add the flour dried and sifted, and also the baking powder. Mix these in very lightly, and pour the mixture into a tin that has been greased and dusted out with a mixture of flour and sugar. Bake in a quick oven until lightly browned and firm to the touch. When ready, turn carefully on to a sieve to cool. For the Icing.—Sieve the icing sugar into a basin, and add gradually enough strained orange juice to make the icing just soft enough to pour. Mix well until smooth, and then pour over the cake. The cake may be decorated with chopped pistachio nuts, crystallised violets, or small sections of pre- served fruits. Note.—Instead of being iced, this cake may be split when cold, and spread with the following cream mixture : Whip a gill of double cream until quite thick, sweeten to taste, and flavour with orange flavouring. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. with the hands. This may take some little time, but no liquid must be used. Form into a round flat cake about 1J inches thick, and prick all over with a fork. Place the cake on a baking tin, and tie a band of double paper round it. Bake in a moderate oven until the cake feels firm and is a nice brown colour. Allow it to cool on the tin before removing it, and take oS the band of paper. Note.—This cake should be rolled in paper and kept in an air-tight tin box, and then broken in pieces when required. Time to bake, 1 to 1J hours. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2807. Potato Cake \ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. candied peel. Orange flower water. 2 eggs. A few chopped almonds. The potatoes must be very dry and mealy. Sieve them into a basin, and add the salt, sugar, candied peel finely shred, and the butter melted. Flavour with orange flower water or any other flavouring preferred. Stir in the yolks of eggs, and, lastly, the whites beaten to a stifl froth. Pour the mixture into a flat cake tin that has been greased and dusted out with flour and sugar, sprinkle the top with chopped almonds, and bake in a moderate oven. Sprinkle with sugar and serve the cake either hot ob cold. Time to bake, about J hour. Probable cost, 8d. 2805. Orange Sandwich Cake 6 oz. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. J lb. sugar. 1 gill milk. 2tea-sps. baking powder 1 table-sp. orange juice. Grated rind J orange. Filling. 1 gill orange juice. Grated rind | orange. Juice \ lemon. 1 dessert-sp. cornflour. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Cream the butter, sugar, and grated orange rind together, then add the eggs well beaten and the orange juice. Sieve the flour and baking powder, and add them gradually to the other mix- ture along with the milk. Mix lightly ; spread the mixture on a flat tin lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, remove the cake from the tin and allow it to cool on a wire stand or sieve, then split and spread with orange filling. Orange Filling.—Mix the cornflour smoothly with the lemon juice, sugar, and grated orange rind, add the orange juice and turn all into a sauce- pan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and simmer slowly 5 or 6 minutes. Turn the mixture on to a plate and use it when cold. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 9d. 2806. Pitcaithly Bannock \ lb. butter. \ lb. flour. | lb. rice flour. 2 oz. sweet almonds. 2oz. candied orangepeel. I oz. castor sugar. A little flavouring. Warm the butter slightly and then beat it to a cream. Blanch and chop the almonds, and 6hred the peel very finely. Mix all the other ingredients with the creamed butter, and knead into one lump 2808. Raisin Cake 1 lb. flour. 3 oz. butter. 3 oz. lard. 6 oz. sugar. J lb. raisins. J lb. currants. 1 oz. baking powder. Rind of \ lemon. 2 eggs. gills milk. ’ Sieve the flour into a large basin, and rub in the butter and lard until free from lumps. Then add the fruit carefully prepared, the grated lemon rind, sugar, and baking powder. Mix all together and make a well in the centre. Pour in the eggs well beaten and the milk, and mix again from the centre outwards. Bake in a papered tin until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about 11 hours. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 2809. Rice Cake 5 oz. Vienna flour. 3 oz. rice flour. \ lb. castor sugar. 1 lb. butter. 6 eggs. A pinch of salt. A little flavouring. Beat the butter to a light cream, add the sieved sugar and beat again. Then add the eggs, one at a time, and beat well between each. Add the ground rice, salt, and flavouring, and lastly the flour sieved. Mix lightly, but do not beat again. Pour the mixture into a papered cake tin, filling it only half full, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—This mixture will also make very nice little cakes if baked in small greased tins. They will be richer than those from Recipe 2717. Time to bake, 1| hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d.