328 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD there is no reason why they should not be made, and made well, by any intelligent cook who follows carefully the directions given for their manufacture. Two or three trials may be neces- sary, but ultimate success is sure to be the result of genuine effort to produce the right thing. Omelets are a most useful class of dish : they are nourishing and quickly made, and they are the means also of using up a number of savoury odds and ends, such as the remains of ham, tongue, or other meats, fish, shellfish, nuts, vegetables, cheese, &c., these either entering into the com- position of the omelet itself or being made into a kind of filling or stuffing. There are many different kinds of omelets, but the rules for making them are pretty much the same throughout, the variation being supplied by the different savoury ingredients which are added to the eggs, or used as a filling. One of the first essentials of successful omelet- making is a good pan. This must be perfectly Omelet Pan clean and smooth, and should, if possible, be kept for this special purpose. The best omelet pans are made of copper, steel, or aluminium, but failing one of these, which are all somewhat expensive, an ordinary tinned iron frying pan may be used, pro- vided it is kept scrupulously clean. Enamelled frying pans do not answer well for omelet-making, as the egg mixture is very much inclined to stick to them. The size of the pan must also be con- sidered; unless it is proportioned to the number of eggs generally used, the omelet will either be unmanageably thick or too thin. Then, again, an omelet pan should never be washed, or at least as seldom as possible, but rubbed clean after use with kitchen paper and then a dry cloth. If any egg adheres to the pan, this may be rubbed off with a little dry salt. When occasion requires the thorough washing of the pan, or in the case of a new pan being used for the first time, a little butter or fat should be put into the pan and made smoking hot over the fire, then poured away and the pan well rubbed out with paper. A pliant palette knife is also very necessary for omelet-making. Have everything in readiness before beginning to mix and cook the omelet, as it will not improve if it has to be kept hot, while the dish is heated or the garnishing found. A gas stove is better to cook it by than an ordinary kitchen fire, unless the latter is very hot and the heat regular. Follow the directions for making very carefully, and serve the omelet immediately it is cooked, as the most successful one will spoil and become tough if it has to be kept hot. Better let an omelet be waited for than have it ready beforehand. 1411. Plain Omelet, 1 3 eggs. A little butter. 1 table-sp. warm water. (Omelet au Natural) Salt. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Read the above introductory notes before making an omelet for the first time. Then put a small piece of butter into the omelet pan, and allow it to melt on the stove whilst preparing the eggs. It must not brown. Break the eggs into a basin; add pepper, salt, parsley, and 1 table- spoonful warm water. Beat them just enough to break them, and at the last moment, or they will become watery. The rule is twelve beats. Just at the last add two small pieces of butter the size of a filbert. Draw the pan with the butter over the fire, and as soon as it begins to fizzle pour in the eggs, &c. With a fork break the cooked sur- face in several places quickly, so that the eggs from the top may run"to the bottom and cook, or loosen the omelet from the sides of the pan, letting the uncooked part run under. This must be done in the beginning, so as not to make the surface uneven. When the egg is cooked, but yet quite soft on the top, tilt the pan on one side, slip a palette knife under one half of the omelet, and carefully roll the egg to the centre. Let it cook a moment to set any egg that has run out. Then slide it gently on to a hot dish, doubling it over. It takes some practice to give the omelet its right bolster-like shape, to have it soft and creamy inside with a smooth golden yellow surface, but success can soon be acquired. Garnish the omelet with a little parsley, cover it over, and serve at once. Notes.—More eggs may be used if a larger omelet is required, but six should be the limit. The water is added to lighten the eggs. A little cream is sometimes used in its place, but it is not quite so good. Milk must never be used, as it would make the omelet heavy, and flour must on no account enter into its composition. 1412. Plain Omelet, 2 (Omelet au Nature!) 3 eggs. I 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 oz. butter. | Pepper and salt. Separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs. Put the yolks into a medium-sized basin and the whites on to a plate. Add to the yolks the parsley, pepper, and salt, and work these well together with Plain Omelet a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Beat up the whites of the eggs with a broad-bladed knife until so stiff that you could turn the plate upside down without the whites falling off. Re- move the wooden spoon from the basin, and with