COLD MEAT REDRESSED 255 Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry until brown in boiling fat. Sufficient for 8 or 10 cakes. 1038. Meat and Rice Cakes Make in the same way as last recipe, using well- cooked rice instead of the sieved potato, and shaping the mixture into round flat cakes. The remains of curry are very good for these cakes, but care must be taken that neither the rice nor the meat is too soft. 1039. Meat Cakes with Poached Eggs Seasoning. A little milk or gravy. Poached eggs. £ lb. corned or spiced beef. J lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. good dripping. Remove any gristle or discoloured pieces from the meat and chop it finely. Mash the potatoes or put them through a sieve. Then melt the drip- ping in a saucepan and mix in first the potatoes and then the meat. Season to taste with pepper and salt if necessary, and if very dry add some milk or gravy. Form this mixture into round flat cakes, using a little flour to shape them. Lay them on a greased baking tin, score them across with the back of a knife, and brush over with a little milk. Bake the cakes in a good oven until nicely browned, then serve them very hot with a neatly poached egg on the top of each. Sufficient for 5 or 6 cakes. 1040. Meat and Macaroni Pie 1 lb. cooked meat. | lb. macaroni. 1 cupful good sauce. 2 or 3 tomatoes. Seasoning. 2 table - sps. bread crumbs. A little butter. Boil the macaroni in salted water, or in light stock, until quite tender, then drain and cut it in small pieces. Mince the meat finely and moisten it with a large cupful of good brown or any other suitable sauce. Peel the tomatoes (see Recipe 583) and cut them in thin slices. Then grease a pie- dish large enough to hold the different ingredients and put them in in layers, seasoning wdth pepper and salt. Cover the top with a good layer of bread-crumbs and lay on small pieces of butter, here and there. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned and well cooked. Serve hot garnished with a little parsley. Time to bake, \ to f hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1041. Meat and Macaroni Timbale 2 eggs. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill milk or stock. Tomato or brown sauce. I lb. macaroni (large 1 lb. cooked meat. 2 oz. bread-crumbs, ltea-sp. chopped parsley Break the macaroni into short lengths, anc throw it into a saucepan with plenty of hot watei and a little salt. Boil gently from 15 to 20 minutes but do not make the macaroni too soft. Drair the water from it, and cut it in short pieces aboui i inch long. Grease a plain mould or basin (pini size), and commence at the bottom, putting ir pieces of macaroni to stand on end and quite clos< to each other. A skewer is most convenient for lifting the pieces and putting them in the mould. Continue until the mould is lined throughout wdth macaroni. Then prepare the mixture for filling. Mince the meat finely and put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs and seasoning. Add the stock or milk and the eggs well beaten. Mix together and Meat and Macaroni Timbale fill in the prepared mould. Cover with greased paper and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Then turn out and pour tomato or brown sauce round. Note.—A quicker way of lining the mould is to use the small pipe macaroni or spaghetti and to cook it without breaking it. Wind this round and round the greased mould, keeping it in place Small Macaroni and Meat Timbales as you go along with some of the meat mixture. Small moulds may be used instead of one large one. A little ham or tongue should always be mixed with other meat, if possible. A few chopped mushrooms may be added. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1042. Meat and Rice Mould | lb. cooked meat. 2 ta.ble-sps. chopped onion 3 oz. rice. 1 oz. butter or dripping. £ pt. stock. First wash the rice, put it into a saucepan with cold water to cover it, and bring to the boil. Strain and rinse the rice with fresh cold water. This is to prevent the rice tasting so very gluey, as it would otherwise do. Return the rice to the saucepan with the butter or dripping, chopped onion and stock, and simmer slowly until soft. More stock may be added if necessary, but when finished the rice mixture must not be too liquid. Add to it the meat finely chopped. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg, and, lastly, stir in the eggs well beaten. Grease a plain mould or basin, just large enough to hold the mixture; sprinkle the chopped parsley inside, or, if preferred, line the inside with browned bread-crumbs and then fill up. Steam the mould in the oven or over the 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 or 2 eggs.