138 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD bunch of herbs, arrange the stew on a hot disn and sprinkle a little finely chopped parsley over. Time to stew, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 444. Carrots with Spaghetti 2 carrots. J lb. spaghetti. | 2 oz. butter or dripping. Boiling water. J Seasoning. Prepare the carrots as in Recipe 439, and cut them in fine shreds. Put them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them, add salt and simmer slowly for 1 hour. Wash the spaghetti, break it in pieces, put it into the saucepan with the carrots and cook both together for J horn) or until tender. Then drain thoroughly. Melt the butter in the saucepan, and let it become slightly brown, return the carrots and spaghetti and mix for a few minutes over the fire. Add seasoning to taste and serve very hot. Time to cook, about 1£ hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 445. Puree of Carrots (Puree de Carottes) 1 to 2 oz. butter. i 1 tea-sp. sugar. 3 carrots. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 1 table-sp. cream. Prepare the carrots as in Recipe 439, and cut them in small pieces. Then put them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them and a little salt and allow them to cook until quite tender. Drain ofi the water, which may be put into the stock pot, rub the carrots through a sieve and return them to the saucepan with the butter, sugar, and more salt if necessary. Cook a few minutes until the puree is perfectly smooth, and add the cream at the last. 450. New Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel (Carottes a la Maitre d’Hotel 1 or 2 bunches young carrots. | tea-sp. sugar. Salt, pepper. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. Wash and scrape the carrots very lightly, cutting ofi the green tops. Put them into a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover them, add a little salt and boil with the lid on the saucepan until tender. When ready, drain ofi every drop of water (this may be put into the stock pot), add the butter, lemon juice, and seasoning, and toss over the fire until thoroughly mixed. Serve very hot. Note.—Older carrots may be prepared in the same way, but they must be cut in pieces. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 451. New Carrots a la Flamande (Carottes a la Flamande) 1 or 2 bunches young carrots. 1 gill boiling water. 2 oz. butter. 1 tea-sp. salt. \ gill cream. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. sugar. Wash and scrape the carrots very lightly, cutting ofi the green tops. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, salted in the proportion of one dessert- spoonful to one quart; boil 10 minutes, and strain. Then cut the carrots into thin slices, and put them into a stewpan with the butter, gill of water, sugar. and salt. Put the lid on the pan, and simmer slowly until the carrots are tender. Add the yolk of egg and cream mixed together, and the chopped parsley. Stir carefully over the fire until thick, but do not boil. Serve very hot, garnished with croutons of bread or pastry (see p. 312). Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 452. New Carrots a la Menagere (Carottes & la Menagere 1 or 2 bunches young carrots. £ pt. stock. J gill white wine. A pinch of sugar. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. flour, loz. butter. Wash and scrape the carrots very lightly, cutting ofi the green tops. Cut them in small pieces or shoes and put them into a saucepan with the stock, wine, and bunch of herbs. Simmer slowly for j hour, then remove the herbs and add the butter and flour mixed together. Stir for a few minutes, season to taste, and serve sprinkled with a little finely chopped parsley. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 453. Glazed Carrots (Carottes Glaeees) Choose young carrots if possible, but if not in season cut the large carrots in small rounds with a vegetable cutter or in some other fancy shape. When prepared, put the carrots into a shallow stew- pan with enough stock to cover them, a small piece of butter and a good pinch of sugar. Cook in the oven or by the side of the fire without covering the saucepan, so that by the time the eobking is finished, the liquid has evaporated and the carrots are coated with a thick gravy or glaze. These are often used as a garnish for meat dishes. Cauliflower (Choufleur) This Is one of the best of vegetables and a favourite with most people. It is another variety of the cabbage tribe, of which the edible part is the flower. It is very wholesome and delicate in flavour. although it cannot be said to contain much nourish- ment. It is more easily digested than any other kind of cabbage, and for this reason appears very often on an invalid dietary.