COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 246 997. Pigs* Tongues, To Cook (Langues de Pore) Prepare and cook in the same way as sheep’s tongues (see Recipes 933 to 935). 998. Pork Sausages, To Make (Saucisses) 1 lb. lean pork. 4 lb. fat pork. I lb. white bread- crumbs. 4 tea-sp. powdered sage. Salt. Pepper. J tea-sp. grated nutmeg. | tea-sp. powdered mace. Sausage skins. To Prepare the Skins.—As a rule sausage skins can be bought ready prepared from the butcher, in which case they will only require thorough wash- ing and drying before being ready for use. If the skins have to be cleaned at home, wash them first in salt and water, then scrape them with the back of a knife and wash them again. After this preliminary washing, allow the skins to soak for several days in salt and water, and then wash and scrape them again. Finally rinse them in fresh water, and let the water from the tap run through them until they smell quite sweet and fresh. Dry and they are ready for use. To Make the Mixture.—Remove all skin and gristle from the meat, cut it in pieces, and put it through a very clean mincing machine. Add to it the bread-crumbs, sage, and spice, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Mix the ingredients well together with the hand and then fill the skins. To Fill the Skins.—The easiest way to do this is to tie one end of the skin on to a mincer that has a filler spout, and to put the finished mixture through the machine, filling the skin gradually. Do not fill the skin too full or it will burst, and at regular intervals give it a twist so as to divide off the sausages. If the mincing machine is not suitable for this arrangement, the skins must be filled with a small spoon and the mixture worked down with the fingers. Note.—The mixture for filling may be varied very much to suit individual taste. Veal is very often used along with the pork, and finely minced suet sometimes takes the place of some of the fat of the pork. The spices can also be varied, and mixed herbs finely powdered, and grated lemon rind may be added if desired. 999. Sausages, To Broil Make the grill of a gas stove red hot. Prick the sausages and place them in the grid tin. Cook them under the grill until brown and crisp on one side, then turn them over and cook them on the other. They will require from 10 to 15- minutes, and must be thoroughly cooked. Sausages are nice and crisp prepared in this way, and not so greasy as when fried. They may also be broiled in a hanging grill in front "of the fire. 1000. Sausages, Fried or Baked Sausages. Dripping. Toasted bread. Prick the sausages with a fork and put them into a frying pan with a little melted dripping. The dripping must not be made too hot before the sausages are put in or the sausages will burst. Keep turning the sausages over and over, and allow them to cook slowly until brown and crisp on all sides. Pork sausages especially require thorough cooking, or they will not be wholesome. Have ready some neat fingers of toast or fried bread, lay them on a hot dish, and place a sausage on the top of each. Brown sauce or gravy may be served separately in a sauce boat. Sausages may also be baked. Prick them well and place them side by side on a greased tin. Cook in a moderate oven until brown and crisp, turning them occasionally. Serve in the same way. Fried bacon may be served along with the sausages. Note.—Sometimes the sausages are parboiled for 5 minutes before frying ; this makes them less rich, but at the same time not quite so tasty. 1001. Sausages with Potatoes, 1 Cook the sausages as above and serve them round a mound of mashed potatoes. The potatoes should not be too dry, a little milk or hot dripping should be added to them. 1002, Smothered Sausages 1 lb. sausages. 2 cupfuls mashed pota^ toes. Seasoning. Milk or gravy. 2 table - sps. crumbs. bread Blanch the sausages by putting them into a saucepan with cold water and bringing them quickly to the boil. Then drain them, remove the skins, and cut them in two or four pieces, according to size. Place these in a greased pie-dish or fire- proof dish and sprinkle them with pepper and salt. Now take about 2 cupfuls of nicely mashed potatoes (see Recipe 537), seasoned and moistened with a little milk or gravy, and spread on the top of the sausages. Brush over with milk or egg, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and bake in a good oven. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1003. Sausages, Egged and Bread-crumb 1 lb. sausages. Some brown gravy. Beaten egg. A potato border. Bread-crumbs. Prick the sausages and lay them in a saucepan with hot water to cover them. Bring this gently to the boil and simmer slowly for 15 minutes. Then drain and remove the skins carefully from the sausages. Cut them in two or four pieces, accord- ing to size, and egg and bread-crumb them. Then fry them in boiling fat (see p. 248) until of a golden brown colour, lift out and drain on kitchen paper Serve them on a potato border (Recipe 543), and serve gravy round, or separately in a sauce boat. Or, the potato mixture may be formed into flat, oblong-shaped cakes, as many as there are sausages browned in the oven, and then a sausage placed on the top of each. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4cl. 1004. Sausages with Cabbage 1 lb. sausages. i 1 medium-sized or 2 Seasoning. | small cabbages. Prepare the cabbage, removing any hard stalk and discoloured parts, and cut it across in fine shreds. Wash and drain well. Put it into a saucepan with boiling water to cover it and a little