215. SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES browned and steamed, when it will require less attention. Time to stew, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 10& 840. Stuffed Roll of Beef 1J lbs. tender steak. Seasoning. Veal stuffing. A little flour. 1 table-sp. dripping or bacon fat. 3 gills stock. A glass sherry. Choose a nice tender piece of steak and have it cut in one slice, and rather less than half an inch in thickness. Wipe the meat, removing the skin and any superfluous fat. Lay it on a board and beat it out slightly with a cutlet bat or rolling- pin. Then trim it, season well with pepper and salt, and lay any good trimmings in the centre, or over the thinner pieces of the meat. Prepare some veal stuffing according to Recipe 1281, lay it in the centre of the meat, roll up and bind round with tape. Now coat this roll with flour in order to make it very dry. Melt the dripping or bacon fat in a stewpan, when smoking hot put in the meat and turn it over and over until brown on all sides. Then pour in about 3 gills of good stock, or enough to about half cover the meat. Put the lid on the pan and stew very slowly until the meat is tender. The meat should be turned over once or twice during the cooking. When ready, lift the meat on to a hot dish, remove the thread or tape, and keep it warm. Mix a tea-spoonful of flour with the sherry, add it to the gravy in the saucepan, and stir until boiling. If too thick, a little more stock or water must be added. Skim well, add more seasoning if necessary, and strain over the meat. A garnish of green peas or small baked tomatoes will improve the appearance of the dish. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 2d. 841. Beef Olives (Roulades de Boeuf) 1 \ lbs. beef (cut thin). 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 oz. flour. | pt. stock. I dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Seasoning. Sausage meat or veal forcemeat. Border of potatoes. Grated horse-radish. Parsley. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, remove the skin, and cut it into small oblong-shaped pieces, suitable for rolling up, and as much one size and shape as possible. Beat them out slightly with a cutlet bat or rolling-pin. Any nice pieces of meat that are too small or too ragged to make into rolls may be cut up and laid on the top of the other pieces, also some small pieces of hard fat. Spread out all the strips of meat on a board, put a little sausage meat or veal forcemeat (see p. 309) on the centre of each and roll them up. Tie round with a piece of coarse thread or fine string and coat them with the flour. Melt the dripping or butter in a stewpan, when smoking hot put in the rolls of meat and keep turning them over and over with a spoon until they are browned on all sides. Lift them on to a plate as they are ready, and Beef Olives garnished with Horse-radish when all are done pour away the fat from the pan and add the stock. Add also the seasonings, bring to the boil and skim well. Return the rolls of meat, put on the lid, and simmer very slowly until the meat feels quite tender. To Serve.—Lift the beef olives on to a hot plate and remove the strings. Arrange a border of potatoes (Recipe 543) on a hot dish and place the olives in a circle or row on the top of this. Strain the sauce round and garnish with a little grated horse-radish and tiny sprigs of parsley. Notes.—The centre of the potato border may be filled with green peas or a macedoine of vegetables if liked. A border of spinach or chestnut puree may be used instead of the potato. Or the beef olives may be dished simply without the vegetable border, straining the gravy over and round and sprinkling them with a little finely-chopped parsley. If any stuffing is left over it may be made into small balls, which can be baked in the oven and used as a garnish to the beef olives. Time to cook, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. Another Way Prepare as directed for Veal Olives (Recipe 238). 842. Scotch Collops 1 lb. lean juicy beef. 2 table-sps. bread- crumbs. 1 oz. beef dripping, butter, or bacon fat. 1 onion. 1- pt. stock. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt. Pepper. Sippets of toast. Have the meat minced with a small proportion of fat. Melt the 1 oz. of fat in a stewpan, and when hot put in the onion finely chopped and the meat. Pound well with a wooden spoon until nicely browned. Add the stock and seasoning and simmer slowly for § hour. Add the bread-crumbs about 10 minutes before serving, so as to ab- sorb the grease. Garnish with small sippets of toast. Note.—A few small baked tomatoes make a pretty garnish to this dish. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. id.