188 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the sauce becomes too thick, add more stock. Strain through a fine strainer, hair sieve, or tammy ; reheat, and add a squeeze of lemon juice and a lump of sugar. Notes.—Tinned tomatoes may be used instead of fresh, and these will not require slicing. If the stock is well flavoured, the vegetables may be omitted. PART II MORE ELABORATE HOT SAUCES 710. Sauce Bigarade (Orange Sauce) \ pt. brown or espagno-le | 1 bitter orange, sauce. Make the sauce according to directions given in Recipe 670, using if possible stock made from the bones of a duck. Strain or tammy the sauce, and put it into a small saucepan. Cut the peel from the orange very thinly, removing only the yellow part. Cut this peel into very fine shreds, put them into cold water, and bring them to the boil. Then strain and add them to the sauce. Simmer for 15 minutes, and strain in the juice of the orange. 706. Sauce Allemande \ pt. veloute sauce. | oz. butter. 2 yolks of eggs. Put the veloute sauce (Recipe 673) into a sauce- pan and let it boil until reduced one fourth. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, and add the yolks of eggs and butter. Stir briskly, and cook for a minute or two over a slow fire. The sauce must not boil again or it will curdle. Strain through a fine strainer or tammy before using. A little cream is sometimes added. 707. Sauce Aurore J pt. veloute sauce. 3 medium-sized toma- toes. 1 gill white wine. | gill white stock. 1 table-sp. chopped ham. 1 table-sp. chopped tongue. Slice the tomatoes, put them into a small sauce- pan with the wine and stock, reduce them to a pulp and rub through a hair sieve. Add this tomato puree to J pint veloute (Recipe 673) or any other good white sauce, sprinkle in the chopped ham and tongue (cooked), and make all hot over-the fire. 708. Sauce B6arnaise 4 yolks of eggs. \ lb. butter. | gill white wine vine- gar. 1 shallot. 1 dessert-sp. chopped tarragon. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 Cayenne, salt. Put the vinegar into a small saucepan with the shallot finely chopped and the stalks of the tarra- gon roughly chopped. Boil until reduced to about half the quantity, strain and return to the saucepan. Put the butter into another saucepan and let it melt without boiling. Then add the yolks of eggs and a few drops of the butter to the vinegar, and mix quickly with a wire whisk. Draw the pan to the side of the fire and add the rest of the butter by degrees, mixing all the time with the whisk and using the same care as when making mayon- naise. In fact this sauce is sometimes called “ hot mayonnaise,” and it should resemble it very much in appearance and thickness. When all the butter is incorporated, add the lemon juice, cayenne, and salt. This sauce is very good served with broiled or fried fish. It must be made only a short time before serving. 709. Sauce Bechamel See Recipe 672. 711. Sauce Bordelaise \ pt. brown sauce. 1 glass Bordeaux. 1 shallot. 1 bay-leaf. 1 clove of garlic. I oz. beef marrow. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. anchovy essence. A squeeze of lemon juice. Chop the shallot and garlic, put them into a small saucepan with the wine and bay-leaf, and simmer over the fire until reduced to half the quantity. Add the brown sauce (Recipe 670), and simmer again for a quarter of an horn, carefully removing any scum that rises. Then strain or tammy the sauce, and return it to the saucepan. Cut the marrow into small round pieces, throw it into boiling salted water, cook 5 minutes; then strain and add it to the sauce with the chopped parsley, anchovy essence, lemon juice, and more seasoning if necessary. 712. Sauce Cardinal I pt. white fish sauce. I 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Lobster butter, | A squeeze of lemon juice. Put the fish sauce (see Recipe 674) into a sauce- pan and bring it to the boil. Add to it enough lobster butter (see Recipe 769) to make it a pretty pink colour, and a little cream, and boil for 2 or 3 minutes. Squeeze in the lemon juice last, and strain or tammy before using. Note.—The cream may be omitted if considered too rich. 713. Sauce Chaudfroid (Blanche), 1 1 oz. butter. About 2 oz. flour. i pt. white jelly stock. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour and cook these two together for a few minutes. Add the stock, stir until boiling, and then simmer slowly for i hour, carefully removing all grease that rises to the top, otherwise the sauce will be dull and cloudy looking. Put the yolks of eggs and cream into another saucepan, and mix them together with a small whisk. Pour the sauce gradually on to them and stir quickly over a good’ fire, bring the sauce to the boil, remove it at once from the fire and strain it through a tammy- cloth. Then allow the sauce to cool, stirring it occasionally in order to prevent a skin from forming. Note.—This sauce is used for coating joints or pieces of meat used for cold entrees, and care must