456 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD thinly. Then line the mould with greased paper, and fill up with rice or small haricot beans. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is thoroughly cooked, remove the paper and filling, and return the case to the oven to dry and brown inside. When ready, turn it out carefully, and dry on a sieve or pastry rack. Then brush over the sides with melted apricot marmalade, and coat them with finely-chopped pistachio nuts, or finely-chopped almonds, which have been browned in the oven. To Prepare the Mixture.—Make the apple pulp according to directions given in Recipe 1970. It must be very thick and smooth, and sweetened to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the lemon or wine jelly so as to make it extra stiff, then strain it into a basin, and whip until white and frothy. Whip the cream, and stir it and the jelly very lightly into the apple puree. Add the liqueur or other flavour- ing to taste, and when this mixture is on the point of setting, pour it into the pastry case. Set aside in a cool place at least | hour. To Finish.—Have ready a gill of whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured. Put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe, and force it out prettily on the top of the gateau. Decorate with some pieces of pre- served fruits, or with some very fight fancy biscuits. Note.—Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. 2060. Gateau Napolitain | lb. flour. I lb. butter. J: lb. castor sugar. \ lb. ground almonds. Grated rind of J lemon. 2 yolks of eggs. 1 table-sp. water. Raspberry or apricot jam. Glac6 icing. Cherries and angelica. Sieve the flour and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Add the almonds and the grated rind of half a lemon. Mix the yolks of eggs with 1 table-spoonful of water, and moisten the dry ingredients with this. Knead well so as to form one lump, and turn out on a floured board. Then work the paste with the hands until free from cracks, and divide into five or six equal- sized pieces. Roll each piece round, and cut it with a cutter or saucepan fid about 6 inches in diameter. Place these rounds on a greased baking tin, prick them with a fork, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes, or until of a pale yellow colour. When these rounds of pastry are cold, spread them thinly with jam and place them one on the top of the other, reserving the best one, without jam, for the top. Trim the edges if necessary, and then ice the cake on the top and sides with glace icing. Decorate with some nice pieces of cherry and angelica, other preserved fruit, or crystallised violets. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 2061. Gateau St. Honors Choux pastry. 2 dessert-sps. sugar. 2 dessert-sps. water. 1J gills good custard. 2 sheets of gelatine. 2 whites of eggs or 1 gill whipped cream. Short Crust. J lb. flour. 2 oz. butter. 2oz. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. rum. A pinch of salt. A little grated lemon rind. Decora'ions—Chopped pistachio nuts, pink sugar. First make some choux pastry and allow it to cool slightly. Make a short crust with the above ingredients—i.e. rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, salt, and grated lemon rind, and mix into a stiff paste with the yolk of egg, rum, and, if necessary, a little water. Roll it out to the thickness of J inch, cut round with a plate or large cutter, and prick all over. Put the choux pastry into a forcing bag, and force out a border all round this cake of short crust, and bake in a moderate oven. With the remainder of the choux pastry, which is in the bag, form upon another tin some fittle choux or lumps about the size of a small nut, and bake them in a moderate oven. When all is ready, boil the 2 dessert-spoonfuls of sugar with the same amount of water until the Gateau St. Honore sugar commences to turn slightly yellow. At this point dip briskly each fittle choux in the syrup, and stick them at once upon the border of the cake, arranging them in a circle round the top. Dissolve two sheets of gelatine in a fittle water, and strain it into 1gills of good custard. Stir this frequently until it is nearly cold, and then add two whites of eggs beaten to a stiff snow, or 1 gill of whipped cream. Flavour to taste. Fill the middle of the gateau with the custard, putting it in in spoonfuls, or by means of a forcing bag. Decorate with chopped pistachio nuts and pink sugar, or any other suitable decoration. Time to bake, § to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 4d. to Is. 6d. 2062. Genoese Baskets Genoese pastry. Raspberry jam. Chopped pistachio nuts. Desiccated cocoanut. Angelica. Whipped cream. Sugar and flavouring. Take some well-cooked Genoese pastry about 1 £ inches in thickness, and stamp it out in rounds 2 to 2J inches in diameter. With a smaller round cutter cut half-way through the centre of each, and remove these pieces so as to form fittle cases (see Croustades, p. 493). Spread the sides and top of these cases with raspberry jam or red-currant jelly, and roll either in chopped pistachio nuts, browned almonds, or in desiccated cocoanut. Whip some thick cream, sweeten and flavour it.