DRINKS AND BEVERAGES 617 2973. Chocolate, To Drink 2 oz. chocolate. I 1 pt. milk. 2 or 3 table-sps. water. ) Sugar to taste. Use good plain chocolate and grate it, or shred it down with a knife. Put it into an enamelled saucepan with the water, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until dissolved. Add the milk gradually, and whisk with a small whisk, or beat with a wooden spoon until boiling. Then pour it into a hot jug, and serve at once. A coffee mill or French chocolatiere is the correct thing for making chocolate. In this a small beater passes through the lid, and the chocolate can be whisked without any trouble while it comes to the boil. The quantity of chocolate used may be varied to suit individual taste; it also depends somewhat on the kind of chocolate used. Less milk and more water may also be used if preferred. A richer chocolate may be made by adding a well- beaten egg. Or it may be served with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top of each cup. 2974. Cocoa When making cocoa it is better, as a rule, to follow the directions given with each special make or brand, although most kinds are improved by being boiled. This seems to give the cocoa more flavour and substance than when the powder is simply mixed with boiling water poured over it. The amount of milk added is a matter of taste, and sometimes a drop or two of vanilla will im- prove the flavour. Note.—For cocoa made from the nibs see Recipe 2596. 2975. Boston Cream 1 oz. tartaric acid. lemon. II pts. boiling water. 1 white of egg. | to 1 lb. loaf sugar. Carbonate of soda. 2 tea-sps. essence of Pour the boiling water over the sugar and tar- taric acid, and let them stand until cold and dissolved. Then add the essence of lemon and the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, and bottle for use. Put about a wine-glassful of this mixture into a tumbler, nearly fill with cold water, stir in a pinch of carbonate of soda, and drink while effervescing. 2976. Egg Punch 2 yolks and 1 white of egg- \ lb. castor sugar. 2 small lemons. 1 pt. water. J bottle white wine. 1 gill brandy or rum. Grate the rind off the lemons, and rub it into the sugar. Put this into a basin with the yolks and white of egg, beat well together, and add the water by degrees. Strain in the juice of the lemons, and add the white wine. Turn all into a lined saucepan, and whisk over the fire until hot and frothy. Add the brandy or rum at the last, and serve hot. 2977. Ginger Beer 1 lb. loaf sugar. 1 gallon boiling water 2 lemons. I oz. cream of tartar. 1 oz. whole ginger. | oz. German yeast. Take a large jar or earthenware pan and put into it the loaf sugar, cream of tartar, and the ginger crushed small. Peel the rind off the lemons as thinly as possible, then remove all the white pith, and cut the lemons in thin slices. Add the slices and the peel to the other ingredients, and pour over the boiling water. Stand until luke- warm, then add the yeast which has been dis- solved smoothly with a little castor sugar. Stir well, cover the pan, and stand in a warm place for 24 hours. Then skim well, and strain the ginger beer through a fine cloth into another vessel, being To Tie Down a Cork careful to leave the sediment. Bottle at once, using new corks, and tie down securely as indicated in illustration. In two or three days it will be ready for use. 2978. Lemonade, To Keep 3 lemons. I 1 oz. tartaric acid. 1| lbs. loaf sugar. | 1 pt. boiling water. Wipe the lemons, and peel the rind off them very thinly, then halve them and strain out juice. Now put the lemon rind, juice, sugar, and tartaric acid into a large jug and pour over the boiling water. Stir frequently until nearly cold, and when quite cold, bottle and cork tightly. One table-spoonful of this in a tumblerful of cold water or soda water makes a refreshing drink. syrup. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Soda water. Ice. 2979. Lemonade Punch 1 lemon. 2 table-sps. water. 1 table-sp. raspberry Put the strained juice of a lemon into a large glass with the water, sugar, and raspberry syrup. Add some crushed ice, and fill up with soda water. A thin slice of lemon may be placed on the top. Serve with a straw. Other fruit syrups may be used, and a little brandy may be added. 2980. Lemon Squash 1 lemon. Cracked ice. 1 small bottle soda or Sugar to taste, seltzer ice. Strain the juice from the lemon into a tumbler, add a little cracked ice, and fill up with soda or seltzer water. Castor sugar may be stirred in to taste. The ice is sometimes omitted. 2981. Lemon Syrup, 1 \ lb. citric acid (crystals) 1 1 lb. lemons. 3 lbs. loaf sugar. | 4 pts. boiling water. Put the loaf sugar into a large basin or crock, and pour over it 3 pints boiling water. Peel the