88 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 207. Stuffed and Baked Haddock (Eglefln Fare! au Four) (medium 2 oz. dripping or butter. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. 1 haddock sized). Fish stuffing. Wash and clean the haddock, scraping the skin well from the tail towards the head. Cut off the fins and tail and take out the eyes. Then dry in a cloth. Make some stuffing according to Recipe 1266, place it in tho opening of the fish, and sew up with a needle and strong thread. When doing this, make an under and over stitch as indicated in illustration, always inserting the needle in the under side of the fish, and leaving a loose piece of thread at each end. In this way the thread can easily be withdrawn without disfiguring the fish. Melt the dripping or butter in a deep baking tin or dish, and lay tho fish into this with the back uppermost and trussed with a skewer in the shape of the letter S. Brush it over with beaten egg or a little of the melted fat, and coat with browned bread- crumbs. Bake in a moderate oven, basting occasionally to prevent the fish becoming dry. When ready, lift with a fish slice on to a hot dish, remove the skewer, and draw the thread carefully out. Garnish with sprigs of parsley and cut lemon, and serve with anchovy, tomato, or any other suitable sauce poured round or served separately. The sauce is entirely a matter of taste. Notes.—Small codling or gurnets may be cooked in the same way. Basting is particularly necessary with the drier kinds of fish. Time, 20 to 30 minutes to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. To Sew up Fish Stuffed and Baked Haddock 208. Stuffed Fillets of Haddock (Filets d’Aigrefin Farcis) 2 small filleted haddocks. Lemon juice. Salt, pepper. Browned bread-crumbs. Maitre d’hotel butter. Anchovy or parsley sauce. Stuffing. Wipe the fish with a clean cloth, and cut them in half lengthwise. Lay them out on a board with the side which the skin was taken off uppermost, and season each piece with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Prepare the stuffing as directed in Recipe 307, lay a little on each fillet, and roll them up, commencing at the thick end, and rolling towards the tail. Stand them up on a greased tin, cover with a piece of greased paper, and bake in a mode- rate oven about 15 minutes, or until the fish has Stuffing Fillets of Fish lost its clear appearance, and looks quite white. When ready, roll the pieces in some fine browned bread-crumbs, coating them well. Place them on a hot dish, pour some anchovy or parsley sauce round, and put a small pat of maitre d’h6tel butter on the top of each. Time, 15 to 20 minutes to bake. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 209. Fillets of Haddock it 1’Italienne (Eglefin a l’ltalienne) 1 lb. filleted haddock. Pepper and salt. Lemon juice. 3 or 4 oz. spaghetti. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. Sauce. 1 oz. butter or 1 table-sp. salad oil. 1 onion. 1 breakfast cupful tinned tomatoes. 1 dessert- sp. chopped pickles. Pepper, salt, sugar. Wipe the fish, cut it in convenient-sized pieces, season with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice and, if time permits, let it lie 1 hour. Then put the pieces into a well-greased fireproof dish, pour the salad oil over, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until done. To Make the Sauce.—Heat the butter or oil in a saucepan, put in the onion and pickles, both finely chopped, and fry them a few minutes without browning. Sieve the tomatoes, and add the puree to the other ingredients, season to taste, and simmer all together for 20 minutes. Pour this sauce over the fish, and serve with boiled spaghetti sprinkled with grated cheese. Time to cook, \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Smoked Haddock or Finnan See under Breakfast Dishes, p. 387. Hake (Merlus) A Lrge fish somewhat resembling the cod in appearance, but with a hook-shaped fin on the back Hake of its head. The flesh is firm and rather solid, and should be eaten very fresh. Hake is a useful fish for made-up fish dishes, as the bones are so easily removed. It also goes under the name of rock salmon, and the French call it the sea-pike, on