PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 421 souffles? have ready a large saucepan of hot fat; a good supply of fat is necessary, as the pastry swells in the cooking. Drop small spoonfuls of the mix- ture into the fat and fry them to an amber colour. Put in only a few pieces at a time, as they will increase to about three times their original size. When well made a beignet souffle should be well puffed out with a hollow in the centre, with just a little of the yellow paste adhering to the outer crust, which is crisp and dry. It is better to test the first one on removing it from the fat. When ready, drain the souffles on kitchen paper, dredge them with sugar, and pile them up on a hot dish. They should be served very hot or else cold. A good sweet sauce may be served separately. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be put into a forcing bag with a plain pipe, and forced out in small pieces into the fat, cutting the pieces off with a knife when about an inch in length. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1877. Bread Fritters (Pain Perdu) 4 or 5 slices of bread. | 2 oz. butter. | pt. milk. [ Castor sugar. 1 egg. | Some jam. Cut the bread from a tin loaf and half an inch in thickness. Remove the crusts and cut each slice in two. Place the bread in a dish and pour the milk and beaten egg over. Allow it to soak until soft, but not pappy. Melt the butter in a frying pan, and fry the prepared bread in it, cooking it until a golden brown colour on both sides. Then drain on kitchen paper, and dredge well with sugar. Keep the fritters hot until all are fried. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, allowing one to over- lap the other slightly, and put a small tea-spoonful of jam on each. Note.—This dish may be varied by putting some nicely stewed fruit in the centre of the dish instead of jam. Then different flavourings may be added to the milk used to soak the bread, or a little honey or syrup may be heated and poured over the fritters at the last. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1878. Bread-crumb Fritters 1 tea-cupful bread- crumbs. 2 gills milk. 2 eggs. & oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. A pinch of salt. I tea-sp. carbonate of soda. Put the bread-crumbs and butter into a basin. Heat the milk and pour it over them, allowing them to soak for ten minutes. Add the yolks of eggs, salt, and seasoning, and mix well. Beat the whites to a stiff froth and mix them in lightly at the last, along with the carbonate of soda. Fry small portions at a time in a saucepan of boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain and dust over with castor sugar. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1879. Cherry Fritters (Beignets aux Cerises) 1 lb. fresh cherries. Powdered sugar. Angelica. Frying batter. A little kirsch or wine. Stone the cherries, and put five or six at a time on to thin strips of angelica. (If the angelica is hard to cut, it ought to be soaked for a short time in hot water.) Sprinkle with sugar and a few drops of kirsch or other liqueur or wine. Steep for a few minutes, then finish in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1867). Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOtf. 1880. Crofites au Rhum Some plain cake or I 1 gill water. fancy bread. 2 or 3 table-sps. rum. Butter. | 1 table-sp. sultanas. I lb. loaf sugar. j 1 table-sp. currants. To Prepare the Grodtes.—Take some plain cake, such as sponge cake or Madeira cake, or light fancy bread, such as tea cake or brioche, and cut it in convenient-sized slices of about half an inch in thickness. Melt some butter in a frying pan; when smoking hot, put in the slices of cake, and brown them nicely on both sides. Drain a minute or two to absorb the grease. The Syrup.—Put the sugar and water into a saucepan, and boil them together until they form a syrup. Add the rum and currants and sultanas veil cleaned. Boil together a few minutes, and use as directed. To Finish.—Arrange the croutes neatly on a hot dish, pour the syrup over boiling hot, soak a minute or two and serve. 1881. Currant Fritters J lb. flour. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. sugar. A little milk. 2 oz. currants. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. Rind of J lemon. 2 eggs. Sieve the flour and baking powder on to a sheet of paper. Put the butter and sugar into a basin and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Add the yolks of eggs, and then the flour and milk by degrees. Next add the currants carefully pre- pared and the grated rind of half a lemon or any other flavouring preferred, and, lastly, stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Form the mixture into small portions about the size of a walnut, drop them into boiling fat, and fry until a pretty brown colour and thoroughly cooked. Sprinkle well with sugar, and serve piled up on a lace-edged paper. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1882. Custard Fritters (Creme Frite) 2 table-sps. flour. £ pt. milk. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 yolks and 1 white of egg- Flavouring. Egg and bread-crumbs. Mix the flour smoothly w ith the milk, and stir them over the fire until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Then re- move to the side of the fire, and stir in the salt, sugar, eggs, and flavouring. Mix well and cook two or three minutes longer. Spread the custard on a greased dish, about | inch in thickness, and set it aside. When cold, cut in rounds or other shapes, egg and bread-crumb the pieces, and fry them in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Drain well and dredge v'ith sugar. Serve piled up with a dish paper under them.