508 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD of the foie gras, and a pistachio nut or piece of truffle may be put in the centre. 2358. Tartelettes de Foie Gras Foie gras. I Sherry or Marsala. Espagnole sauce. | Pastry cases. Make the required number of small tartlet cases or croustades (see Recipe 2248), bake them and re- move them from the tins. Take some remains of foie gras and cut them in dice, and have ready a little good brown sauce to which some Marsala or sherry has been added. The sauce must be thick and very good. Put about a tea-spoonful of it into each pastry case, fill up with the foie gras, mounting it rather high, and cover with more sauce. Place the tartelettes in the oven to become thoroughly hot, and then decorate them with tiny leaves or stars of pastry, or in any other way pre- ferred. Serve them very hot with a dish paper under them. 2359. Smoked Haddock “ en Coquilles ” 2361. Croutes of Finnan Haddock, 2 (Croutes de Merluche Fume) 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. A small piece of butter. Browned bread-crumbs. 2 eggs. 3 table-sps. smoked haddock. 3 table-sps. milk. Cayenne pepper. Use cooked smoked haddock or finnan, remove from it all skin and bones, and break it into small flakes. Melt a small piece of butter in a saucepan, pour in the milk and then the eggs well beaten. Stir over the fire until the mixture is just beginning to thicken, then draw the saucepan to one side and add the fish, anchovy essence, a good pinch of cayenne, and salt if necessary. Make the mixture thoroughly hot, but do not boil. Put it into scallop shells that have been greased and sprinkled with bread-crumbs, sprinkle a few browned bread- crumbs over, lay one or two small pieces of butter on the top, and brown the scallops quickly in the oven or under the grill of the gas stove. Serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Notes.—Cooked kipper may be used instead of the finnan haddock. The mixture may be served on small pieces of toast instead of in the scallop shells. 2360. Croutes of Finnan Haddock, 1 (Croutes de Merluche Fum6) lemon Cayenne. Salt. A squeeze of juiee. Croutes of hot buttered toast or fried bread. 1 small smoked haddock 3 anchovies. 1 oz. butter. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 yolk of egg. Dip the fish into boiling water, then skin it and remove the bone. Wash the anchovies, and skin and bone them. Pound the flesh of the haddock and the anchovies in a mortar with the butter, and then rub them through a wire sieve. Then put the mixture into a saucepan with the seasoning and cream, and heat thoroughly over the fire without allowing it to boil. Pile this mixture on small rounds of hot buttered toast or fried bread, decorate them with finely-chopped parsley and hard-boiled egg or lobster coral, and serve them very hot. 4 table-sps. smoked haddock. 2 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning. Use cooked haddock. | doz. small rounds of toast. A little butter. 1 tomato. A lit tie pickle. Chop it rather finely, removing all skin and bone. Moisten with the sauce and season rather highly. Have ready some small rounds of hot buttered toast, put some of the haddock mixture on each, and lay a thin slice of tomato on the top. Decorate with a slice of, or a little chopped pickle, and cook the savouries in the oven about 10 minutes. Serve hot. 2362. Savoury Haddock Custards (Cremes de Merluche Fum6) 2 table-sps. haddock. 1 gill milk. 2 yolks and cooked 1 white of Seasoning. 1 tea-sp.chopped pickles. Chopped parsley. Rounds of hot buttered toast. 1 tea-sp. anchovy essence Beat up the yolks and white of egg with the milk, and strain them into a basin. Take the remains, or about 2 table-spoonfuls smoked haddock, chop them finely, and add them to the custard. Stir in also the anchovy essence and a little chopped green pickle, and season to taste. Pour the mixture into very small greased dariole moulds, and poach them carefully until firm to the touch. Have ready an equal number of small rounds of hot buttered toast, sprinkle them with finely-chopped parsley, and place the little custards on the top. Serve very hot. 2363. Smoked Haddock Rissolettes (Rissoles de Merluche Fumd) \ lb. smoked haddock. 1 or 2 table-sps. white sauce. Seasoning. Some scraps of pastry. Egg and vermicelli. Cook the smoked haddock and chop it roughly, removing all bone and skin. Moisten with a little thick white sauce, and season to taste. Then roll out some scraps of unsweetened pastry very thinly, and cut out some rounds 3 inches in diameter. Put a little of the fish mixture in the centre of hah the number of rounds, wet round the edges of the other half with a little beaten egg, and place them on the top. Press well together and then egg the croquettes and toss them in crushed vermicelli or fine bread-crumbs. Fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour, and serve garnished with parsley. 2364. Savoury Haddock Souffles (Souffles de Merluche Fume) 2 table-sps. whipped cream. 2 eggs. Seasoning. 1 cupful cooked smoked haddock. 2 table-sps. white sauce or 1 oz. butter. Pick the haddock free from skin and bone and chop it finely. Pound it in a mortar or basin with the white sauce or butter and yolks of eggs, then rub it through a sieve. Put the pur£e into a basin, season it to taste, and stir in very lightly