INVALID COOKERY 543 Notes.—The gruel may be made thicker or thinner according to taste, and a little cream may be served with it. Water may be used instead of milk, and wine or brandy added as required. A very good drink can be made by making the gruel with water, rather thick ; then thinning it down with port wine. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil again. Barley gruel makes a change from the ordinary oatmeal gruel, and is very nourishing. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Probable cost, 2d 2589. Barley Water (Clear) 2 table-sps. pearl barley. I Sugar. 2 cupfuls boiling water. | £ lemon. Wash and blanch the barley as in last recipe. Then put it into a jug, and pour the boiling water over. Add the rind and juice of the lemon and a little sugar if wished. Cover over, stand until cold, and strain ready for use. Probable cost, ljd 2590. Barley Water (Thick) 2 table-sps. pearl barley. I water. J lemon. 2 breakfast-cupfuls cold ( Sugar. Wash the barley, put it into the lined saucepan and cover with cold water. Bring quickly to the boil, strain and rinse the barley. This whitens it and prevents the drink having a dark and cloudy appearance. Put the barley back into the sauce- pan with the 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water and rind of the \ lemon peeled off very thinly. Allow this to cook slowly by the side of the fire from 1J to 2 hours, adding more water if necessary. Then strain, add the lemon juice and a little sugar if wished. Serve hot or cold. Note.—This is considered a very light and nour- ishing drink, and having no decided taste is usually a favourite with invalids. It is often mixed with milk, the lemon in this case being omitted. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Probable cost, l|d 2591. Barley Water (from “ Patent ” Barley) 1 dessert-sp. Robinson’s “ Patent ” barley. J tea-cupful cold water. 1 qt. boiling water. Lemon juice. Sugar to taste. This barley water is more quickly made than the above. Robinson’s “ Patent ” barley is in the form of a powder, and is bought ready prepared in tins. Mix the barley to a smooth paste with the cold water. Then have ready on the fire a quart of freshly boiling water in a scrupulously clean lined saucepan; add the barley to it, and stir over the fire for 5 minutes. Add lemon juice to taste and sugar if desired. Simmer a minute or two longer, and strain ready for use. This makes a very refreshing drink. Note.—If a more nourishing drink is required or an invalid, use a larger quantity of the barley. 2592. Black Currant Drink 1 dessert-sp. black- currant jam. £ pt. boiling water. A squeeze juice. A little sugar. of lemon Put all the ingredients into a jug, and stir well. Cover over and stand by the side of the fire from 15 to 20 minutes. Strain through a fine strainer or piece of muslin, and serve as a remedy for a cold. 2593. Bran Tea table-sps. bran. I A small piece of butter. 1 pt. cold water. ] £ table-sp. honey. Put the bran into a saucepan with the cold water, bring to the boil, and simmer for 10 minutes. Be careful it does not boil over. Then add the honey, and when dissolved strain. The butter may be added at the last, or it may be omitted. This is a remedy for hoarseness. Time to cook, 15 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. 2594. Camomile Tea 4 to 6 camomile flowers. 1 cupful boiling water. Put the camomile into a small teapot, pour on the boiling water, and infuse by the side of the fire for 10 minutes. Or it may be infused in a cup covered with a saucer. Pour off or strain, and serve with sugar. Note.—This is a very soothing drink and is good for sleeplessness. Time to infuse, 10 minutes. Probable cost, \d. 2595. Caudle 1 cupful gruel. I A pinch of nutmeg. 1 glass sherry. 1 egg. | Sugar. Beat up the egg with a fork, removing the speck, and add the sherry. Make the gruel boiling hot, and pour it on to the egg and wine very gradually, stirring all the time. Add sugar to taste, and if liked a little nutmeg. Serve very hot. Probable cost, 4d. 2596. Cocoa from the Nibs 2 oz. cocoa nibs. 3 cupfuls cold water. Slightly crush the nibs and put them into a jug with the cold water. Cover and stand overnight. Next day pour the contents of the jug into a clean saucepan, and simmer very gently from 3 to 4 horns. Add more water if necessary, and strain when ready. Allow the liquid to cool, remove any fat from the top, and re-heat as required. This preparation of cocoa is much clearer and more refreshing than the ordinary cocoa, although the flavour is somewhat peculiar. Milk and sugar may be served with it. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours after soaking. Prob- able cost. Id to 2d. 2597. Coffee or Tea with Egg Beat up a fresh egg in a cup or basin; and strain it into a breakfast cup. Pour hot tea or coffee slowly on to it, stirring all the time. A little hot milk may also be added if wished, and sugar to taste. 2598. Egg with Cream and Brandy Beat up the white of an egg to a stiffish froth. Put it into a glass and add 1 table-spoonful of cream and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Mix well and sweeten to taste. Probable cost, 3d 2599. Egg Drink 1 egg. I 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 tea-sp. sugar. | 1 tea-cupful of milk. Break the egg, and remove the speck. Add to it the wine and sugar, and beat together with a