401 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS cook it in the milk a few minutes. Cream the l butter in a basin and sieve the sugar on the top of it. Add the yolks of eggs and a few of the bread- crumbs and mix well; then the dissolved chocolate, vanilla, and the rest of the crumbs, and mix again. Chocolate Pudding Whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until the pudding is well risen and feels firm to the touch. Serve with chocolate, custard, or wine sauce. Notes.—If unsweetened chocolate is used, half the quantity will be sufficient, and more sugar may be added. The above mixture may be steamed in small dariole moulds if preferred. They will then require from 15 to 20 minutes to cook. The moulds may be decorated with shred almonds or small pieces of angelica before pouring in the mixture. Time to steam, 1 to 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1761. Chocolate Pudding, 2 2 eggs—their weight in butter, flour, and castor sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. 2 or 3 oz. chocolate. Vanilla flavouring. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. water. Grate or shred down the chocolate and dissolve it in a small saucepan with the water. It must bo stirred until perfectly smooth, and then allowed to cool. Make the mixture according to directions given for Canary Pudding (Recipe 1748), adding the chocolate to the creamed butter and sugar. Flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Pour the mixture into a well-greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready, and serve with custard or chocolate sauce. Notes.—If preferred the mixture may be steamed in small dariole moulds ; it will then take a shorter time to cook. The mould may be decorated with a few pieces of cherry and angelica before pouring in the mixture. Time to steam, 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1762. Cocoanuf Pudding 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 oz. cake-crumbs. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. cocoanut. 2 gills milk. 2 eggs. A few drops of vanilla. Put the cocoanut into a small saucepan with the milk, and cook it slowly over the fire from 10 to. 15 minutes. Put the butter into a basin and beat it until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top of it, and mix the two well together. Then add the yolks of eggs, crumbs, cocoanut, and flavouring, and mix again. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out carefully and serve with wine, custard, lemon or orange sauce. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1763. Coffee Pudding 5 oz. bread. 1 gill strong black coffee. 2 oz. sugar. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. 2 oz. almonds. A few drops of vanilla. Grease a plain pudding mould or basin, and decorate it with a few of the almonds blanched and shred. Weigh the bread free from crust, break it in pieces and put it into a basin with the butter. Make the coffee boiling hot, pour it over them and soak until the bread is quite soft. Then beat it up withafork, adding thesugar, flavouring, yolks of eggs and remainder of the almonds. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well- greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Serve with custard sauce made with equal quantities of coffee and milk. Note.—Broken sponge cakes may be used instead of the bread, and a table-spoonful of cream added to the mixture will improve it. Time to steam, 1 to If hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1764. Currant Dumplings \ lb. flour. 2 to 3 oz, suet. 3 oz. currants. 1 gill milk. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. £ tea-sp. salt. Sieve the flour and add to it the suet finely chopped, salt and baking powder. Clean the currants and mix them with the other ingredients. Moisten into a dough with the milk, and knead lightly until free from cracks. Form into small balls with the hands, using a little flour to prevent the dough sticking. Drop these into a saucepan of fast-boiling water, and boil quickly until well cooked. Lift out with a draining spoon, and serve the dumplings very hot. A sweet sauce may be served separately. Time to boil, 20 to 25 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1765. Dampf Nudeln | lb. flour. 1 table-sp. sugar. | tea-sp. baking powder. | oz. butter. 3 yolks. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 table-sp. currants. 1 table-sp. raisins. J pt. milk. J oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Sieve the flour, sugar, and baking powder into a basin, and rub in the \ oz. of butter until free from 2 C