FISH 83 184. Fillets of Cod with Parmesan (Cabillaud au Parmesan) 1J lbs. cod. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 pint fish stock. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. Cayenne pepper. Salt. 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and wash the trimmings in cold water. Put these latter into a saucepan with equal parts of milk and water to cover them, a bay-leaf, a few parsley stalks, and a small onion. Allow this to simmer by the side of the fire from 20 to 30 minutes, then strain this stock, and use half a pint to make the sauce. Meanwhile cut Fillets of Cod with Parmesan the fish into neat pieces, and lay them on a greased tin, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Cover with greased paper, and cook the fish in a moderate oven until quite tender. Make a sauce with the butter, flour, and fish stock, and cook it well. Add to it the cream and most of the cheese and season to taste. Arrange the pieces of fish neatly on a hot dish, pouring any liquid from the tin into the sauce. Coat the fish with the sauce, and sprinkle the remainder of the cheese over the top. Wipe the edges of the dish, and brown in the oven or in front of the fire before serving. Notes.—A few fried or baked slices of tomato may be used as a garnish. The fish may be basted with white wine if desired. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 185. Cod’s Head, Stuffed 1 cod’s head. Stuffing. 1 glass white wine or fish stock. 2 table-sps. butter or oil. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. 2 table-sps. browned bread-crumbs. Take a cod’s head with part of the shoulders and wash and clean it carefully, removing the eyes and gills and any black skin lining the inside. Prepare some fish stuffing according to Recipe 1266, put it into the head, and sew it up. Now place the head on a well-greased baking dish or tin, pour over it the wine or stock, and add the butter or oil. Bake in a good oven, basting frequently with the liquid. When nearly ready, sprinkle the head with browned bread-crumbs and return to the oven for a few minutes longer. Then lift the head on to a hot dish, remove the thread with which it was sewn, and keep it warm whilst finishing the sauce. Add the brown sauce, anchovy essence and lemon juice to the liquid in the tin, bring to the boil, skim if necessary, and then strain round the head. Serve garnished with parsley. Time to cook, about f hour. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 186. Cod Steaks, To Fry (Tranches de Cabillaud Frites) Slices of cod. I Seasoning. A little flour. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Take as many slices of cod as required. These are best cut from the tail end of the fish, and should be about f in. in thickness. If cut from the open end of the fish where there is a flap, fold over the ends and fix them with a tiny wooden skewer or piece of match. Wash the fish lightly, scraping the skin with a knife, then dry with a cloth, and rub over with a half lemon. Mix a little flour, pepper, and salt on a plate, dip the pieces of fish into this, coating them lightly on both sides. This dries the fish thoroughly and makes it fry better. Then egg and bread-crumb the slices (see p. 249) and fry them in a saute or frying pan with a small quantity of fat. See Dry Frying, p. 80. When thoroughly cooked and nicely browned on both sides, drain them well on paper, remove the skewers if any have been used, and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with parsley or watercress and quarters of cut lemon. Tomato, shrimp, anchovy or any other suitable sauce may be served separately, also baked or boiled potatoes. Notes.—A little melted butter may be mixed with the egg if the fish is considered too dry. Cod steaks can be prepared in a simpler way by dipping them in milk after flouring them and then in flour again, instead of egging and bread-crumbing. Time to cook, 10 to 12 minutes. Allow 6 to 8 oz. per person. 187, Cod Steak & la Flamande (Tranche de Cabillaud & la Flamande) 1 slice of cod. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 yolk of egg. 1 oz. butter. Salt, pepper. 1 gill brown sauce. Choose a nice thick slice of cod and wash and dry it carefully. Well grease a baking tin with a little butter, and sprinkle the chopped onion over the bottom. Lay the fish on the top. Beat up the yolk of egg with the lemon juice and a little pepper and salt. Pour this on the top of the fish and lay on the remainder of the butter in small pieces. Bake in a good oven until the fish is cooked and nicely browned on the top. When ready, lift the fish on to a hot dish, pour the brown sauce into the baking tin, bring it to the boil and pour it round. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Note.—Other kinds of fish such as halibut, hake, ling, &c., may be prepared in the same way. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 188. Cod Steaks with Tomato Sauce (Tranches de Cabillaud au Sauce Tomate) 3 slices of cod. | pt. tomato sauce. A little butter. 1 hard-boiled egg. Seasoning. Slices from the tail end of cod are best for this dish, and they should not be cut too thick. Wipe them with a damp cloth and season with pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a baking tin, lay the fish on it, cover with greased paper, and bake in a moderate oven until cooked.