COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 226 896. Leg of Mutton, Stuffed and Roasted 1 leg of mutton. Sausage stuffing. Gravy. The choice of the mutton is very important, be- cause to be good it must be very tender. A leg ought to be round and plump in form, and it must be well hung. The stuffing is entirely a matter of taste. If not to be stuffed, trim the joint carefully, removing all superfluous fat and any discoloured parts. Cut off part of the shank if too long, and wipe the meat with a damp cloth. To bone a leg of mutton, do not cut it open, but commence at the ends of the bones and work the flesh gradually back from them, until they can be disjointed and drawn out. Fill the cavity with sausage stuffing (Recipe 1279) and fasten up the two ends securely to prevent it coming out. Now weigh the joint and roast and serve it according to directions given on p. 207. A green vegetable would be a suitable accompaniment to this joint. Note.—Veal, chestnut, or celery stuffing may be used instead of the above. 897. Roast Saddle of Mutton First remove the skin and trim away all super- fluous fat, but leave the kidneys in their place. Now turn the flaps, or the thin sides of the meat underneath the joint, and bind round with two or three lengths of tape or string. Curl the tail over the back and fix it in position with string, or with a small skewer. Then roast and serve the saddle as directed for Roast Mutton (Recipe 893), keeping it well basted. Watercress is frequently used as a garnish. Notes.—The bones in a saddle of mutton are never jointed, as the carving is done the length way of the joint. Sometimes the flap part is cut off before cooking and used for a separate dish, such as epigrams of mutton, Irish stew, &c. 898. Roast Lamb The fore-quarter, hind-quarter, saddle, loin, od shoulder are the favourite joints for roasting. The fore-quarter is considered the most delicate part, but the hind-quarter the most economical. Lamb does not require to be hung in the same way as mutton, and it must not on any account be allowed to become high. Prepare the meat carefully and joint it where necessary. Roast it according to general directions given on p. 207. As some parts of the joint may be very thin, these should be covered with two or three folds of paper, and the basting must be frequent to prevent their being dried up. Lamb must always be well cooked, as otherwise it is unwholesome, and it should be served with good clear gravy and mint sauce. Young spring vegetables, such as new potatoes, green peas, or asparagus, are the usual accompani- ments to roast lamb, but many other vegetables and also salads are appropriate. Lamb is also very good served cold with a salad. When the fore-quarter is served it is usual to raise the shoulder from the ribs and put this latter aside for serving cold. A great deal of frozen lamb is now sold, and perhaps of all meats it is the most successfully treated in this way. It is of course much cheaper than the home-grown, and can be obtained all the year round. After careful thawing (see p. 205) it may be treated in the same way as fresh lamb. 899. Braised Breast of Mutton 3 lbs. breast of mutton. Veal stuffing. Stock. Flavouring vegetables. A small piece of glaze. Seasoning. First remove the skin and some of the fat from the mutton, then bone it. Spread the meat out on a board and flatten it with a cutlet bat or rolling- pin. Trim again if necessary, wipe it with a damp cloth on both sides and season with pepper and salt. Then prepare some veal stuffing (Recipe 1281), lay it in the centre of the mutton, roll up and sew together with a needle and fine string. Place a bed of mixed vegetables—carrot, turnip, onion, and celery—at the bottom of a large stewpan, barely cover it with stock and bring to the boil. Lay the meat on the top of this, cover with greased paper, and put a tight-fitting lid on the pan. Cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the meat is tender, turning the roll once during this time. To Serve Hot.—Lift the meat on to a hot dish and draw out the string. Strain the liquid from the vegetables and serve them round the dish. Re- turn the liquid to the saucepan, add to it a small piece of glaze, and when melted pour this gravy over the meat. Serve red-currant jelly separately. To Serve Cold.—Lift the meat out of the saucepan and press it between two boards, with a weight on the top, until cold. Then draw out the string, trim the ends and brush over the top and sides of the meat with liquid glaze (see p. 210). Serve garnished with parsley or a little salad. Note.—This may be roasted instead of braised. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 8d. 900. Haricot Mutton A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup, or 1 tea-sp.Worcestersauce 1J to 2 lbs. mutton. 2 onions. Carrot and turnip. 1 oz. flour. Jpt. stock or water. Wipe the meat and cut it in neat pieces, remov- ing all skin and superfluous fat. A piece of mutton from the neck, breast, or shoulder may be used, although the best haricot is made with neatly trimmed cutlets. Melt some of the fat from the meat in a stewpan, and when quite hot put in the pieces of meat and brown them on all sides. Then remove the meat, and pour off some of the fat,