FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 473 2162. Rhubarb and Fig Jam 4 lbs. rhubarb. I 4 lbs. preserving sugar. 1 lb. dried figs. | 6 to 8 oz. candied peel. Wash the figs in hot water, dry them, and cut them in thin shreds. Choose fresh garden rhubarb, wipe it, and cut it in small pieces about 1 inch in length, but do not peel it unless the skin is coarse. Remove the sugar from the peel and shred it finely with a sharp knife. Put these three ingredients into a large basin with the sugar ; cover, and stand for 24 hours. Then turn all into a preserving pan, bring to the boil, stirring frequently, and boil from | to 1 hour, or until the jam will set. Pour into pots and cover. 2163. Rowan or Mountain Ash Jelly To each pint of rowan juice allow 1 lb. sugar. Pick and wash the rowans and put them into a preserving pan with just enough water to prevent their burning. Cook slowly until the berries are reduced to a pulp ; then strain in order to get the clear liquid. Measure this and return it to a clean pan. Bring to the boil, and add the proper pro- portion of sugar. Then boil quickly for 20 minutes or until the jelly will set, skimming when necessary. Note.—This is a very good accompaniment to roast mutton or game. 2164. Strawberry Jam Allow | lb. preserving sugar to each pound of strawberries. Choose small or medium-sized red strawberries, and remove the husks and any decayed ones before weighing. Put them into a preserving pan and boil them for \ hour, stirring almost constantly. During this time allow the proper proportion of sugar to warm in the oven without taking colour. Add it to the strawberries and boil the two together, stirring all the time for another \ hour, or until the jam will set. Note.—The addition of 1 gill of red-currant juice to each pound of strawberries will much improve the flavour of this jam. It should be added with the sugar. 2165. Tangerine Orange Marmalade 2\ doz. tangerine I 2 lemons. oranges. | Preserving sugar. Water Weigh the oranges and allow double their weight in preserving sugar. Then wash or wipe them with a damp cloth, and put them into a preserving pan with enough warm water to float them. Boil them until soft, then drain. Now cut the oranges in quarters and remove the pips. Put these into a basin with 1 pint boiling water, cover, and stand overnight. Remove the pulp from the rind of the oranges and mash it up with a wooden spoon. Slice the peel very finely with a sharp knife or mar- malade cutter. Next day, put the required amount of sugar into a preserving pan with the strained juice of the 2 lemons and the strained water from the pips. Boil these together to a syrup, then add the orange pulp and peel, and boil again until the marmalade will set, about 30 minutes. Pour into pots and cover. 2168. Tomato Jam 4 lbs. tomatoes. 4 lbs. sugar. 1 pt. water. The red home-grown tomatoes are the best. Wipe them and put them into a basin with boding water to cover. Allow them to remain for a few minutes, then lift them out and peel them. Next cut them into quarters and remove the hard pieces from the end, and some of the seeds. Put the seeds, skins, and 1 pint of the water, in which the tomatoes were soaked, into a saucepan, boil for | hour and strain. Then put the sugar and this strained liquid into a preserving pan, and bring them to the boil. Add the tomatoes, and boil until the jam will set, stirring almost constantly. Note.—A little lemon juice or ginger may be added if liked. 2167. Vegetable Marrow Jam To each pound of prepared marrow allow 1 lb. sugar, | lemon, and 4 oz. whole ginger, water. The vegetable marrows should be medium-sized and fresh. Wash, dry, and peel them. Then cut them in slices an inch thick. Stamp out the seeds with a round cutter, and cut the rings in blocks an inch in width. Weigh the marrow and put it into a large basin with the proper proportion of sugar, the grated rind and juice of lemon, and the ginger broken in small pieces and tied in muslin. Put the skins and seeds into a saucepan with water to cover them, and boil i hour. Then strain, and allow 1 gill of this liquid to each pound of marrow. Pour this into the basin, cover, and stand for 24 hours. Next day boil all together, stirring almost constantly until the pieces of marrow look transparent, and the liquid will jelly when tested on a plate. From | to 1 hour will be required. When ready, lift out the ginger and pour into pots. PART III THE BOTTLING OF FRUIT The valuable notes following have been quoted by kind permission from “ The Book of Fruit- Bottling,” by Edith Bradley and May Crooke, published by John Lane. Fruit bottling is by no means laborious, but it demands the utmost nicety, cleanliness, and atten- tion to details. All fruits may be bottled, and the method is admirably suited to those particular fruits which are least in favour when freshly gathered, as black currants and damsons. These, when bottled and kept from six to eighteen months (or even longer) are vastly improved. They lose that element of roughness, almost acridity, which in the fresh fruit sometimes runs round the mouth and makes one shudder. The process is not new; in the “ good old times ” of stillrooms, herbs, and simples, and decoctions of all sorts, there is no doubt that bottled fruit was “ laid down ” in dozens in the capacious cellars and store rooms which occupied so large a space in the old-fashioned English home. The apparatus was of the very simplest—the fruit was packed into bottles, covered