COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 284 moving the skin. Reserve £ lb. of the bacon cut in thin slices, and cut up the remaining £ lb. Now put the veal, \ lb. of bacon, and any odd trimmings of duck through the mincing machine, and put all through a second time if necessary to make a fine farce. Add the biscuit crumbs (unsweetened) to the farce, season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and moisten with the egg well beaten and the glass of wine. Mix thoroughly. Take a fire- proof dish with a fid (terrine), and line it with the sliced bacon. Put in next a layer of the farce, then some pieces of duck, more farce, and so on until the dish is full. Cover with sliced bacon, then a layer of thin rings of onion, thin slices of lemon and the bay-leaf. Put on the fid and seal the join with a paste made of flour and water. Bake in a good oven until the pieces of duck feel quite tender, when they are tested by running a skewer through the hole in the fid of the terrine. This pate must not be served until quite cold, when slices can be cut as required. Time to cook, H to 2 hours. 1159. Salmi of Duck 1 young duck. Cold water. Seasoning. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 2 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 glass sherry or Madeira. Juice of'l orange. Croutons of fried bread. Prepare and wash the duck. Remove the legs, wings, and breast, trim and cut these in neat pieces, and put them to one side. Chop up the back and put it with the giblets, prepared and washed, into a saucepan. Add a little salt, cover with cold water and bring to the boil. Then skim well, add the onion cut in pieces and the bunch of herbs and simmer all together for 1 hour. Then strain and remove any grease from the top. Melt half the butter in a saucepan, put in the pieces of duck, cover and cook slowly for 20 minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally to turn the contents over and prevent their sticking. In another saucepan melt the remainder of the butter, and let it brown slightly, stir in the flour and brown that also. Then add about three gills of the strained stock and stir until boiling. Skim carefully, add the wine and orange juice, season to taste and strain this sauce over the duck. Continue the cooking about 20 minutes longer or until the duck is quite tender. Serve very hot, garnished with croutons of fried bread. Time to cook, about § hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1160. Roast Goose (Oie Rotie) Proceed as directed for Roast Duck (Recipe 1153) regarding the preparation and trussing, taking care to remove all soft fat from the inside. A goose may be stuffed with sage and onion, apple, potato, or chestnut stuffing (see Stuffings, p. 307), put into the body of the bird, although in reality it is much more wholesome roasted quite simply and unstuffed, with appropriate accompaniments. A goose does not require very frequent basting, as the flesh is so fat in itself. Any goose fat should be carefully preserved, as it is most valuable for cook- ing purposes. The time will depend on the size of the bird. Serve with good brown gravy or with tomato sauce, also apple, gooseberry, or cranberry sauce, or a compote of fruit. Time to roast, 1£ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 8 or more persons. 1161. Gosling or Green Goose, To Roast (Oison Roti) Prepare a gosling in the same way as a duck. Before trussing, season the inside with pepper and salt and put in a good piece of butter to keep the flesh moist. It is not usual to stuff so young a bird. Roast in the usual way and serve garnished with watercress. Brown gravy should be served separately. Time to roast, § to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 1162. Stewed Giblets 2 sets goose giblets. 1 pt. stock or water. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 small carrot. 1 oz. butter. £ oz. flour. Seasoning. Sippets of toast. Wash and prepare the giblets as directed in Recipe 9, and cut them in small pieces. Put them into a saucepan with stock or water to cover them (about 1 pint), the onion and carrot cut in pieces, and a small bunch of herbs. Put the fid on the pan and simmer slowly until the giblets are tender. Then skim and strain. Melt the butter in the stewpan and let it become slightly browned, mix in the flour and brown that also. Now pour in the stock from the giblets and stir until boiling. Return the giblets and simmer all together for a few minutes, then serve garnished with sippets of toast or with a border of rice or macaroni. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1163. Goose, Braised with Chestnuts 1 young goose. 2 oz. butter or bacon fat. 1 carrot. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. 1 gill white wine. Seasoning. Brown stock. 2 or 3 doz. chestnuts. Prepare and truss the goose, dusting it over with flour. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the goose and keep turning it over and over until brown on all sides. Add the carrot and onion cut in thin shoes, the bunch of herbs, wine and seasoning. Cook for a few minutes with the lid off the saucepan until the wine is well reduced, then add enough stock to about half cover the goose. Put a tight-fitting lid on the pan and cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven, until the goose is tender. Baste the bird occasionally with the stock, adding more if necessary, but the amount of liquid should be kept rather low. The time required for cooking will depend on the size and age of the goose. When ready, serve the goose on a hot dish with some of the gravy poured round and the chestnuts as a garnish. To Make the Sauce.—Strain the liquid into a smaller saucepan and boil it down until a rich brown colour, adding a small piece of glaze or a little more stock if necessary. Skim carefully, and when ready pour some round the goose and serve the rest in a sauce boat.