426 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD lined stewpan, add the flour and mix the two smoothly together with a wooden spoon, allowing them to cook for a few minutes without browning. Then add the milk or other liquid, and stir over the fire until thoroughly cooked. When readv. the mixture will look smooth, and will draw away readily from the bottom and sides of the stewpan. This is called the “ panada.” Remove the sauce- pan from the fire, and add the sugar and flavouring. Then add the yolks one at a time, beating the mixture well between each. Put the whites of the eggs into a large basin or beating bowl, add a pinch of salt to them, and with a wire whisk beat them up to a very stiff froth. Remove the wooden spoon from the mixture in the saucepan, and with an iron one stir the beaten whites lightly but thoroughly in. The heavier mixture must be turned over and over the fighter one until both are blended. To Cook and Serve the Souffle.—Pour the mixture into the prepared tin, cover with the square or round of greased paper, and steam slowly and steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. If cooked too quickly the souffle will rise rapidly without becoming firm, and will then sink in the middle when it is turned out, and look like a crushed hat. Turn out carefully on to a very hot dish, and serve at once with sauce poured round or served separately. Another way of steaming a souffle is to cook it au bain-marie in the oven. Stand the tin containing it in another tin or saucepan with hot water to reach half-way up the sides. Bring this to the boil over the fire, and then continue the cooking in the oven until the souffle is set and well risen. The band of paper is not required in this case. A Baked Souffle Almost any of the mixtures given for steamed souffles may be baked, but it is generally better to use a smaller proportion of flour or binding substance, as the heat of the oven is so much drier than that of steam. Por example, in the above list of quantities given for a steamed souffle, | oz. flour instead of 1 oz. would be sufficient to use if the souffle were to be baked. A baked souffle should be cooked in a dish or tin that can be sent to table, and it must be well Souffle Dish in Frame greased before the mixture is poured into it. A fireproof china or earthenware souffle dish is perhaps the best to use. If an ordinary souffle tin is used, a hot and folded serviette should be pinned round it before it is sent to table, or it is sometimes slipped inside a silver frame. Small souffles are baked in little china or paper souffle cases. The mixture should not more than three-quarters fill the mould or dish, and it should be scored across two or three times on the top to divide the mixture before putting it in the oven, otherwise the first Little Paper Souffle Cases stroke of the spoon when serving it would lift off all the surface skin. Place the souffle in a good moderate oven, and then bake it steadily until it is well risen and feels firm to the touch. The door of the oven must not be opened oftener than necessary, and then closed very gently, as any draught of cold air might cause the souffle to fall. Serve the souffle as quickly as possible. Omelets For notes on omelets see p. 327. 1903. Apple Souffle, Steamed (Souffle aux Pommes) 2 large apples. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. flour. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. butter. I V gills milk. 4 eggs. Vanilla. Custard sauce. First Prepare the Apples.—Peel them, cut them in dice and put them into a flat stewpan with the 1 oz. of butter. Let the butter melt and mix with the apples over the fire, then place the stewpan in the oven and cook the apples until nearly tender, but not broken. Meanwhile melt the 2 oz. of butter in another saucepan, and mix the flour with it. Pour in the milk, and stir and cook until the mixture draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the yolks of eggs, sugar, and vanilla, and mix them well in. Have the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last along with the apples. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle mould, and steam it steadily until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, remove it from the saucepan, allow it to stand a few minutes, then turn out and serve with a good custard sauce poured round. Time to cook, 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1904. Apple Souffle, Baked (SoufflS aux Pommes; 3 large apples. 2 eggs. | | oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. I Grated rind of \ lemon. Bake the apples in the oven until they are thoroughly cooked. Then scoop out all the soft inside and rub this pulp through a hair sieve. Put the sugar, lemon rind and yolks of eggs into a medium-sized basin, and beat them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency;