COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 78 head, and then trim the tail. Also remove the eyes. If the skin covering these is tough, cut through it first with a pair of scissors and then the eyes can easily be pulled out, or pushed out from the inside. As a rule, fish should not be allowed to soak too much in water, it is better to wash them at a tap of running water and just to rinse them under the water. Some freshwater fish are an exception to this rule, they have such a strong muddy flavour, that they require to be soaked for some time before they are cooked. TO SKIN AND FILLET FISH A Haddock and other Round Fish.—These are skinned from the head downwards. First wash the fish in cold water and make a cut through the skin on both sides and close to the fins. Also make a cut across the skin just below the head and commence at the flap part. Loosen the skin there, keeping down the flesh with the knife ; begin very carefully and then pull gradually downwards towards the tail. Turn and do the other side in the same way. The fingers may be dipped in a little salt to keep them from slipping, or the skin may be held with a cloth. To Fillet the Fish.—Remove the flesh cleanly from the bones on both sides. Commence at the open side of the fish and at the head end. Lay the flesh backwards, but do not separate it from the other side. Turn and do the other side in the same way, commencing at the tail end this time. A filleted haddock should be in one piece. A Sole and other Flat Fish.—These are skinned from the tail upwards. First wash the fish and cut off the fins. Lay it on a board with the tail end nearest you, and the dark side uppermost. Make a cut across the skin just above the tail, slip a knife under it and raise the skin slightly from the flesh. Then with the right thumb loosen the skin all the way up the right side. Loosen up the other side in the same way, this time using the thumb of the left hand. Then hold the tail of the fish firmly down on the board ; take hold of the loosened skin with a cloth, and pull it off quickly, drawing it upwards towards the head. The white skin may be removed in the same way, but this is frequently left on. If the skin adheres very closely, a knife must be used to help the process. To Fillet the Fish.—Make a cut straight down the middle of the back to the back bone. Then remove the flesh first from one side and then from the other. Two fillets are taken from each side. It will be found easiest to raise the first fillet from the left-hand side of the fish, working from the head towards the tail; and then to turn the fish round, and to raise the second fillet, working from the tail towards the head. Turn the fish right over, and do the other side in the same way. Note.—Filleting is really best learnt by watching a fishmonger or other competent person at work. FISH STOCK FROM TRIMMINGS One advantage in filleting fish at home is that stock can be made from the trimmings, and this stock used for cooking the fish, or for making a sauce to accompany it. There is no comparison between sauce made with good fish stock and that in which milk or water forms the liquid part,—the latter is entirely lacking in character. If time does not permit of the filleting being done at home, some fish trimmings should be ordered along with the fish if a sauce is required. Care must, however, be taken that these trimmings are perfectly fresh. To Make the Stock.—Wash the trimmings, dis- carding any black-looking skin, and break the bones in pieces. Put them into a lined saucepan with water or milk and water to cover them, and add a few parsley stalks, a small piece of onion, a few white peppercorns, and a little salt. Simmer by the side of the fire at least \ hour and then strain ready for use. White wine may be used instead of the milk. GENERAL RULES FOR COOKING FISH Boiling This method of cooking is best suited to large uncut fish or to thick pieces of fish, such as salmon, halibut, cod, ling, hake, turbot, &c. Boiling is not to be recommended for small fish, nor for thin slices of fish. Fish should never be skinned for boiling, and when whole the head should be left on, with the eyes taken out.