WAITING AT TABLE AND TABLE SERVICE 657 ... v ’ • fish, or with oystera when they commenced the meal. At a simple informal dinner it is quite customary now to ofier a good claret or Burgundy, and a good sherry or some light white wine. At a formal dinner, champagne or sparkling hock is usually given, either alone or with other wines. If a variety of wines is decided on, the following is the order in which they would be served—sherry with soup, champagne with the first entree and throughout the meal, port with dessert, and_liqueurs with coffee. At lunch, one wine is usually sufficient, such as claret. Burgundy, or hock. Mineral waters and lemonade should be at hand at all meals, as so many do not take wine. Barley water, too, is a favourite and fashionable drink, especially among ladies, and is often served at luncheon. Brandy or whisky and soda may be in readiness at informal meals where men are present. When one is in doubt as to what wine to buy, it is a good plan to consult a reliable wine-dealer, as it is impossible for the amateur to know all the different brands and their distinctive qualities. Whatever wine is offered should be good of its kind. How to Serve the Different Wines.—Claret and Burgundy should always be decanted when used for dessert, at other times it is a question of taste. These wines will not keep long after they have been opened. Sherry and port are always decanted, and this should be done some time before the wine is required, so as to allow any sediment to sink to the bottom of the decanter. Champagne is served from the bottle, a serviette being wrapped round it, or held beneath the neck after the wine has been poured out, to prevent drops falling on the cloth. Hock and Moselle are also served from the bottle. It is also important to serve wines at a proper temperature. Both claret and Burgundy should be warmed to the temperature of the room. The best way to do this is to let them stand in a warm dining-room some time before they are required, or if they are wanted in a hurry, the bottles may be placed in a pail of warm water for a short time. Champagne and hock, on the other hand, should bo served very cold. In hot weather it is customary to place the bottles on ice for an hour or so before using them. Metal pails are sold for the purpose, and these are filled with a mixture of broken ice and salt. Decanters of wine are not put on the table at a formal dinner until dessert is served, when claret and sherry can be placed in front of the host. To open champagne or other sparkling wines, first cut the wire with a pair of champagne nippers, and then cut the strings. Hold the bottle in a slanting position and remove the cork slowly and carefully. The bottle must be held on the slant until the wine has been poured out. When drawing ordinary bottles, care must be taken not to break the cork; the corkscrew should be screwed into the middle of the cork as straight as possible. A lever corkscrew is best. Wine should always be poured out at the right- hand side of the person seated, and poured out very carefully. When handing champagne at a dinner, it is usual to-ask in the first instance if it is desired, but when handing it later the glass should be refilled without any comment. Liqueurs are always served in small liqueur glasses, on a silver tray or liqueur stand, and handed at the left-hand side. When stout or ale is taken, the bottle should be opened at the sideboard and then poured out carefully and slowly, holding the bottle at an angle so that the glass may be filled with ale and not froth. It should then be handed on a silver waiter. If it is draught ale, it should be poured out briskly, and then slowly from a jug in order to give it a head.