PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 431 with fine sugar, put a whole violet on the top of each and brown very slightly. Serve at once. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1929. Sweet Omelet (Omelette Soufltee) 3 eggs. I Grated rind of | lemon. 1| oz. sugar. I A little jam. Put the yolks into a basin with the sugar and grated lemon rind or other flavouring, and mix well with a wooden spoon until of a pale creamy con- sistency. Whip the whites, with a pinch of salt added to them, to a very stiff froth, and fold them very lightly into the yolks. Do not stir more than is necessary. Pour the mixture into a well-greased omelet pan, and put in k brisk oven from 7 to 10 minutes, until of a pale brown colour. When firm to the touch, turn the omelet out of the pan on to sugared paper, put a table-spoonful of warm jam in the centre, and fold over. Lift the omelet on to a hot dish with a dish paper, and serve at once. Notes.—A little stewed fruit may be used instead of jam, or the omelet may be served plain. If there is any danger of the omelet sticking to the pan, the bottom of the pan may be lined first with a round of greased paper. Time to bake, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 1930. Another Way Prepare a mixture in the same way as above. Turn part of it on to a flat greased dish, and with a knife shape it into a round with a depression in the middle. Put the rest of the mixture into a forcing bag with a large pipe at the end, and press it out in lines or rounds over the mound. Sprinkle with sugar, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and well risen. Serve at once on the dish on which it is baked. Note.—A little jam may be put in the centre before using the bag and pipe. 1931. Omelette Souffle with Apricots (Omelette Souffl6e FourrSe aux Abricots) 4 eggs. 2 table-sps. fine sugar. 2 table-sps. cream. A pinch of salt. A little butter. Pieces of apricot. Icing sugar. 1 or 2 table-sps. kirsch. Cream the yolks of eggs with the sugar in a basin. Add the cream and then the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Put this mixture into an omelet pan with a little butter, and stir it over the fire until it begins to set. While still rather soft, place some slices of cooked or tinned apricots over one half of it; fold over and dredge the upper surface well with icing sugar. Brown under the gas grill or in a hot oven to make the icing sugar look like caramel. If the browning is done in the oven, place the omelet pan on a cold tin or brick to prevent the omelet burning under- neath. When ready, slip the omelet on to a very hot dish, sprinkle it with a little kirsch and serve very hot. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 per- sons. Probable cost. Is. 1932. Chocolate Omelet (Omelette au Choeolat) 1J to 2 oz. chocolate. 3 eggs. 1 oz. sugar. 2 table-sps. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. cream. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. Cut the chocolate in small pieces, and dissolve it in a stewpan with the milk. It must be per- fectly smooth and free from lumps. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and allow the chocolate to cool a little. Put it into a basin with the yolks of eggs, cream, sugar, and vanilla, and mix thoroughly for a few minutes. Lastly stir in the whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Have the butter melted in an omelet or frying pan, and pour the chocolate mixture into it. Stir with a spoon for a minute or two, then allow the omelet to set over a moderate fire until brown on the under side. When ready, roll it up and sprinkle with sugar. Serve at once on a hot dish, with or without choco- late sauce poured round it. Time to cook, about 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1933. Rum Omelet (Omelette au Rhum) Make in the same way as Omelet Souffle, omitting the jam and flavouring the yolks of eggs with a Bum Omelet little rum. When ready to send to table, pour over the omelet a few spoonfuls of heated rum and light it. The rum used must be very good or it will not burn.