FISH 107 it in fine shreds or dice, and put it to one side. Now remove the creamy part from the centre of the crab, add to it the shallot, blanched and chopped, the gherkin, chopped finely, parsley and chervil. Season with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Mix well together, and last of all stir in the white meat from the crab. Well wash the shell of the crab, and put the above mixture into it. Decorate with hard-boiled egg and a few of the small claws. Serve on a folded serviette with a little fresh parsley. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 296. Curried Crab (Crabe au Kari) 1 gill curry sauce. 1 boiled crab (medium size). Boiled rice. Prepare the crab as in Recipe 293, but do not chop it too finely. The curry sauce must be fairly thick and well-seasoned (Recipe 685). Put it into a saucepan, and warm it over the fire. Add the prepared crab, and make it thoroughly hot in the sauce. Serve in a hot dish with a border of rice round, or the rice may be served separately, and the curry decorated with slices of hard-boiled egg and cut lemon. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 297. Crab Cutlets Make in the same way as Lobster Cutlets. Recipe 309. 298. Devilled Crab (Crabe & la Diable) 1 boiled crab (medium size). 1 gill white sauce. 1 table-sp. bread-crumbs | tea-sp. made mustard. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. 1 tea-sp. Worcester sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped pickles. 1 tea-sp. chutney. Cayenne. Prepare the crab as in Recipe 293, and chop it finely. Warm the sauce, which should be rather thick, in a saucepan, and add all the other in- gredients to it. Season to taste, adding salt if necessary. Wash and dry the shell of the crab, brush it over with salad oil or melted butter, and fill up with the mixture. Sprinkle the top very lightly with biscuit crumbs, and place in the oven 7 or 8 minutes. Garnish with strips of red chilli and green pickle, and put some sprigs of fresh parsley or watercress round the dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 299. Crab with Mushrooms (Crabe aux Champignons) 1 boiled crab (medium size). 1 gill white sauce. 2 table-sps. chopped mushrooms. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 yolk of egg. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. A few browned bread- crumbs. Prepare the crab and shell as in Recipe 293. Put the white sauce into a small saucepan, and make it hot, add to it the meat of the crab, broken very small, the chopped mushroom and seasoning. Simmer slowly for 15 minutes, stirring frequently, then add the yolks of egg and cream. Grease the well-washed shell and sprinkle the inside with a few bread-crumbs. Fill it up with the mixture, sprinkle with more bread-crumbs, and put a small piece of butter on the top. Bake in a quick oven from 7 to 10 minutes, or until thoroughly hot. Serve garnished with cut lemon and sprigs of parsley. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 300. Potted Crab 1 boiled crab. 2 to 3 oz. butter. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Cayenne pepper. Pick all the meat from the crab, and pound it in a mortar with the seasoning. Add some of the butter melted, pound again, and then rub through a fine wire sieve. Pack the mixture into little pots, run some melted butter over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. Cover again with melted butter if the former lot has soaked in, and set aside to cool, when it will be ready for use. The potted crab must be served in the jar, garnished with a little parsley. 301. Scalloped Crab (Crabe aux Coquilles) Make in the same way as Dressed Crab (Hot), serving the mixture in scallop shells instead of the crab shell. 302. Crab Souffles, Hot or Cold (Souffl6es de Crabe) Make in the same way as Fish Souffles (Recipe 360). Lobster (Homard) The lobster is considered more of a luxury than the crab, as it is much more expensive. The flesh is firmer in texture and more delicate in flavour. They are frequently bought alive, when they are a blue-black colour and do not become their well- known red colour until after cooking. A medium- sized lobster is best, and one that is heavy in pro- portion to its size. The hen lobster is valuable on account of the spawn, which gives such a beautiful red colour to sauces, &c., but for actual flavour the cock lobster is best and the flesh is firmer r it is more slender in form than the hen lobster. The lobster must be bought and used as fresh as possible. If bought alive the lobster should be strong and active in its movements. If ready cooked, the tail should be pressed tightly against the body, and should spring back sharply when pulled out straight with the fingers. Lobsters with white shell-like incrustations on the shell should be avoided, as this is generally an indication of age. The flesh of the lobster is very dry and is gene- rally served with an accompaniment of oil and vinegar, or with a sauce made with oil. To Kill a Lobster Lobsters should be killed before being cooked by running a skewer or sharp-pointed knife through the spinal cord at the joint between the body and tail shells. 303. Lobster, To Boil Have ready on the fire a deep saucepan of boiling water, with salt added to it in the proportion of 1 table-spoonful to I quart. Plunge in the lobster