613 SWEET MAKING and the bottom lined with wafer paper. Pour the nougat mixture into this, pressing it well down, cover with more wafer paper, and put a weight on the top. When cold, cut in convenient-sized pieces with a very sharp knife, and if not to be eaten at once, wtap the pieces in wax paper. 2954. Chocolate Nougat 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. glucose. 2 oz. unsweetened cho- colate. I lb. nuts. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. Wafer paper. Shred or grate the chocolate, and put it into a saucepan with the sugar, water, butter, and glucose. Stir over the fire until dissolved, then remove the spoon and boil to 240° F. Pour into a wet basin, add \ lb. shred nuts—almonds, walnuts, pignolias, or cashew nuts may be used—flavour with vanilla, and stir occasionally until thick. Then take a small biscuit tin, put a sheet of wafer paper at the bottom, pour in the nougat mixture, and cover with another piece of wafer paper. Set aside to cool, then turn out and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Note.—A few pieces of preserved cherry and angelica may be added to the mixture if desired. 2955. Orange Nougat 1 lb. granulated sugar. I lb. glucose. 1 gill milk or cream. 1 orange. J lb. blanched almonds. 1 oz. butter. 3 whites of eggs. Wafer paper. Put the sugar, milk or cream, and glucose into a saucepan, stir until melted, and boil to the “hard boil,” about 250° F. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, add the butter, the grated or finely-chopped rind and the strained juice of the orange, and the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Return to the fire, and boil the mixture until it again reaches 245°, and has become a pale brown colour. Mix in the almonds, and pour quickly into a shallow box lined with wafer paper. Put another piece of wafer paper on the top, and set aside until cold. Then turn out and cut in pieces as required. 2956. White Nougat with Nuts \ lb. granulated sugar. | pt. water. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 tea-sp. glucose. 1 or 2 whites of eggs. lb. shelled walnuts. 1 tea-sp. almond essence. Juice of h lemon. Put the sugar, water, and gelatine into a saucepan, and allow them to melt by the side of the fire. Add the glucose, and Btir until boiling. Then boil quickly for 7 or 8 minutes, stirring all the time. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and let the mixture cool slightly. Add the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, the walnuts roughly chopped, and the flavouring. Mix them in, and stir occasionally until the mixture begins to set, and the heavier portion no longer sinks to the bottom. Grease a tin, or box, dust it out with com starch and sugar mixed; pour in the nougat, and leave it in a cool place for 12 hours. Then cut it in neat pieces, and, if not to be served at once, wrap in wax paper. 2957. Orange and Walnut Drops | lb. granulated sugar. J oz. butter. 1 gill milk. 2 oz. shelled walnuts. 1 small orange. Put the sugar and milk into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until dissolved. Then add the strained juice and grated rind of a small orange and boil to 240° F. Now add the nuts rather finely chopped, the small piece of butter, and a little yellow or orange colouring. Allow the mixture to cool slightly, and, when it is beginning to thicken, beat it until creamy. Then drop small spoonfuls on an oiled tin or on wax paper, and allow them to set. Remove when cold. 2958. Peppermint Rock 1 lb. granulated sugar, i A pinch cream of tartar. 1 tea-cupful water. | Essence of peppermint. Put the water and sugar into a saucepan with a good pinch of cream of tartar. Bring them slowly to the boil, then put on the lid for a few minutes to let the steam wash down the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the lid, and boil quickly until a temperature of 262° F. is reached. Use the thermometer, as the exact temperature is important. Now pour out on an oiled slab, and sprinkle with enough essence of peppermint to flavour. Fold over the edges with a wooden spatula, and, when cool enough, pull out with the hands, fold and pull again until the mixture is quite white. Finally, draw out in slender stalks, and cut in even lengths. Lay on a papered tray, and put aside until next day. Store in a tin box. Note.—Other flavours may be used, and the rock may be coloured if wished. 2959. Port Wine Drops 1 gill port wine. I 4 or 5 lumps loaf sugar. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. 1 clove. 1 table-sp. water. 1 inch cinnamon stick. J oz. isinglass orgelatine. | A little lemon rind. Soak the isinglass or gelatine with about 1 table- spoonful of water, then put it into a small lined saucepan with the other ingredients, peeling the lemon rind very thinly, and using rather less than | a lemon. Stir over a slow fire until almost boiling, then simmer gently for 5 minutes. Strain through a piece of muslin, and pour into a wetted soup plate. Set aside until cold, and cut into small lozenges. 2960. To Spin Sugar Take from £ to | lb. loaf sugar, according to the quantity required, and melt it in a saucepan or sugar boiler with just enough water to moisten it. Add a pinch of cream of tartar, and boil to 310° F., or until the sugar is just beginning to change colour. Wash round the sides of the sauce- pan occasionally with a brush dipped in cold water to prevent the sugar graining. When ready, take a long wooden spoon or stick, hold it up in a hori- zontal position with the left hand. With the right hand take up a small quantity of the boiled sugar in a dessert-spoon, and wave it rapidly backwards and forwards across the stick, when it will fall down in long threads. A sheet of paper should be spread on the floor to catch any of the sugar