PAPER-BAG COOKERY A book on cookery would scarcely be complete without some mention being made of this special method of preparing food. The principle is not a new one, experts in cookery have long been accustomed to cook dainty morsels in greased paper, realising that by no other means was the flavour of the food so well retained ; but the method was confined almost exclusively to small articles, such as mutton cutlets, fillets of meat or game, small fish or slices of fish, and such like, which were both cooked and served in paper, the en papilottes of classical French cookery. A few years ago, however, the system of cooking in paper began to be applied in a more extensive manner, and by the introduction of specially prepared paper bags, it was shown to be one of the simplest, and at the same time one of the most satisfactory methods of cooking various kinds of food. All that is required is a good oven, a special paper bag, with a grill shelf or grid on which to place it, and then attention to the simple rules for using these. Only a few recipes to demonstrate the system are here given, but anyone interested in Paper-bag Cookery will very soon experiment in fresh directions and apply it to other dishes given in this book. THE BAG AND HOW TO USE IT The Choice of Bag.—This is one of the first points of importance in paper-bag cookery. The success of the system depends, to a large extent, upon using a bag which is not only air-tight and grease- proof, but one which is made of the right quality of paper and free from any injurious property. The ordinary tradesman’s bag is useless for the purpose, even if made of unprinted paper, and the directions for using it are faithfully carried out; the food cooked in it would be almost bound to taste of paper, which, besides being objection- able, might be most unwholesome as well. Choose, therefore, a bag that is sold specially for this kind of cookery, such as the Soyer “ Kookera ” bag, which is the result of repeated experiments and trials to get the right kind of paper. It is made from materials which guar- antee its purity, and is proved to be both tasteless and odourless. Method of Using.—Select a bag proportionate in size to the food to be cooked in it. It is extrava- gant to take one unnecessarily large, as they cost more money than those of a smaller size; at the same time it must be large enough to allow of the opening being well secured. Grease the bag inside with good dripping, lard, or clarified butter (except when water is used) to prevent the food sticking to the paper. Less grease may be used for a fat joint of meat than for food that is wanting in this ingredient. Place the food when it is prepared in the greased bag, turn down the corners at the open end, then fold over the open edges two or three times, and secure them with small paper clips, or with a special clip sold for the purpose. It is essential that the bag be hermetically sealed as far as possible, in order that the food may cook in its own steam and none of the flavour be lost. For this reason pins should not be used to fasten the edges together, as they make holes. If by any chance a bag should become injured and begin to leak, it should 626 be simply slipped inside a second bag without taking the trouble to remove the food. Kind of Oven.—Any kind of oven may be used, provided the necessary heat is secured. A gas or electric one is perhaps best, as the heat can be so easily regulated. The oven must be clean, and should be made thoroughly hot before the food is put into it. If the temperature is gauged by a thermometer, 200° Fahr. is a very good heat to begin with, but this should be reduced to 180° or 170° when the cooking has fairly started. Experi- ence, however, will very soon teach the necessary heat, and this will vary somewhat with the kind of cooking required. In most cases the bags should become well browned, but if there is any smell of burning the heat must be reduced. Grid Shelves.—Another very important point to bear in mind is that the bag with its contents must never be placed on a solid shelf in the oven. A grid shelf or a special grill must be used, as it is absolutely necessary for the hot air to circulate round the food. If the bag were laid on a solid shelf, it would burn underneath and most likely burst, and the cooking would be a failure. If a gas oven is being used, care must be taken not to place the bag too near the gas jets. To Know when Food is Ready.—As a general rule it may be taken that food cooked in a paper bag requires a rather shorter time than when cooked by other methods. There are also means of judging whether it is ready or not, i.e. by touching the bag with the finger, and feeling if the food is tender; by testing it with a trussing needle or fine skewer, or by making a small hole in the bag, which in some cases will do no harm. It is also well to remember that there is not much danger of overcooking, and that food may often be left in the oven a little longer than the stated time without any harm resulting. To Serve the Food.—Place a hot plate or dish a little way under the bag, and draw the bag on to it with the fingers, or a fish slice may be used to slide it on. Then slit open the bag along two