675 SEASONABLE LUNCHEONS Ltjncheoh ia a meal which varies very much in diSerent houses; it is always less formal than a dinner, and there are no hard-and-fast rules regarding the service. Roughly speaking, there are two different kinds of luncheons—the family luncheon or children’s dinner, and the luncheon proper, which resembles the French dejeuner in style. To make the latter a success a nicely chosen menu is necessary and a daintily set table. The dishes selected should be rather light in character, suited to the tastes of those who are to partake, and in accordance with the season of the year. The following menus will give an idea of the kind of dishes that are suitable and may be found useful. If less is required, one dish may be suppressed ; and, on the other hand, the lists may be supplemented with hors d’ceuvre at the commencement, and cheese and biscuits or some savoury at the end. A choice of cold meats on the sideboard also plays an important part in a luncheon menu, and black coffee is usually served after the repast. LUNCHEONS IN SPRING 1 Eggs on Spinach. Cold Beef with Mixed Salad. Orange Souffle. Cheese-cakes. 2 Cauliflower Souffle. Curried Veal. Custard Pudding. Compote of Apples. Cheese Straws. 3 Stewed Scallops. Grilled Steak & la Maitre d’Hotel. Potato Chips. Apple Fool. Sponge Fingers. 4 Soup in Cups. Fish Souffle. Raised Veal and Ham Pie. Beetroot and Orange Salad. Meringues. 5 Shrimp Patties. Spring Stew. Trifle. Tomato Cheese. 6 Savoury Omelet. - Fricassee of Rabbit. Banana Fritters. Junket and Cream. 7 Eggs in Aspic. Stewed Ox-tail. Rhubarb Fool in Glasses. Macaroni and Cheese Croquettes. 8 Fish Curry. Sea-kale with Cream Sauce. Grilled Cutlets. Lemon SoufflA Apple Tartlets. 9 Fried Soles with Tartars Sauce. Cold Pigeon Pie. Cucumber Salad. Fruit with Cream. Cheese Fondue. 10 Spring Soup. Mayonnaise of Halibut. Stewed Pigeons. French Pancakes. 11 Plovers’ Eggs. Veal Cutlets with French Beans. Semolina Pudding. Rhubarb Tart. 12 Cauliflower au Gratin. Roast Chicken. Salad. Prune Mould with Cream. Angel Cake.