425 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS cold, cut out iu small shapes with a cutter, egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Note.—The currants may be omitted, or pre- served cherries or ginger cut in small pieces may be used in their place. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1901. Sponge-Cake Fritters 2 or 3 Id. sponge cakes. A little jam. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk or wine. Frying batter. Castor sugar. Split the sponge cakes, spread them with jam, make a sandwich, and cut them in small square pieces. Sprinkle the pieces with the milk or wine and let them soak a short time without allowing them to become too moist. Prepare some frying batter as directed in Recipe 1863, dip the sponge cake pieces into it, and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well, sprinkle with sugar, and serve piled up on a lace-edged paper. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 9d. 1902. Walnut Fritters Make in the same way as Apple Fritters (Recipe 1869), using 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped walnuts instead of the apples. PART V SOUFFLES AND SWEET OMELETS To steam a souffle place the mould containing it in a steamer, or in a saucepan with boiling water to come half-way up the sides. In the latter case it is safer to place a plate or saucer at the bottom of the saucepan, in order to raise the mould above the heat of the stove. Cook the souffle slowly and steadily the required time. If steamed too quickly it will rise rapidly without becoming firm, and will be apt to fall again when turned out. A steamed souffle is ready when it feels firm to the touch. Steamed souffles are always turned out of the moulds in which they are cooked, and a suitable sauce is poured round, never over them. A baked souffle must be cooked in a moderate and steady oven until it is well risen and firm to the touch. It is never turned out, but is served in the dish in which it is cooked. A suitable sauce may be served separately. The success of a souffle depends largely upon the thorough beating of the whites of eggs, steady cooking and quick serving. A Steamed Souffld The following are the usual proportions, and the general directions, for making a steamed souffle; by the addition of different flavourings the various souffles take their names. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 gill milk or other liquid. A pinch of salt. 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs. 1 oz. sugar. Flavouring. Before beginning to make the souffle, prepare the tin and put on the saucepan with water, or the steamer in which it is to be cooked. REMARKS ON SOUFFLES This is a class of puddings known only by its French name, which is so generally understood that it has become an anglicised word. A souffle is a pudding which is made very light by having stiffly beaten whites of egg, or sometimes whipped cream, added to it; and of which the basis is a cooked batter with raw yolks of eggs and some distinctive flavouring, or other ingredient which requires little cooking, added to it. The preparation of a souffle is exceedingly simple if exact measures are taken, and if the directions given for making it are carefully followed. The only difficulty is in serving it soon enough, as it falls so quickly when taken from the heat. Have everything ready before beginning to make the souffle. If it is a steamed one, prepare the tin (see below) and put on the saucepan with the water in which it is to be cooked. If, on the other hand, it is a baked souffle, see that the oven is at the right heat for cooking, and grease the tin or dish to be used. The whites of eggs for all souffles must be beaten up very stiffly in a basin with a wire whisk, and folded rather than mixed in to the other ingredients, care being taken not to break them down by too much mixing. As the mixture rises considerably when cooking, the mould should not be more than half filled. In a steamed souffle the band of paper forms a protection to prevent the mixture falling over the sides; in a baked souffle this is not so necessary, as the mixture hardens as it rises. To Prepare a Souffle Tin.—A souffle tin is a plain round one with high sides. A lj-pint size will hold the above quantities comfortably. First grease the mould very carefully and thickly with clarified butter. Then cut a double band of paper wide enough to stand 3 or 4 inches above the top of the tin, and to reach down to the middle of it, and long enough to fold round it and overlap a little way. Grease this band, and tie it round the outside of the tin, putting the single edges to the top and the double fold below. This forms a protection to prevent the mixture falling over the sides of the tin when it rises. Also grease a round or square of paper to cover the top. To Make the Mixture.—Melt the butter in a small