FISH 113 fire, allowing the shrimps to soak in the butter without coming to the boil. Then turn the con- tents of the saucepan into a mortar and pound well. Season very carefully with cayenne, salt if necessary, a pinch of ground nutmeg and mace, and 1 tea-spoonful anchovy essence. Rub the mixture through a fine wire sieve, pack into small pots, and, when cold, pour the rest of the butter melted over the top. 332. Shrimp Rolls (Croustades de Crevettes) | doz. small dinner rolls. Melted butter. Mixture for Filling. 1 cupful picked shrimps. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill fish stock or milk. 2 yolks of eggs. £ gill cream. Lemon juice. Cut the tops off the dinner rolls, and scoop out all the soft part from the inside. Brush the cases, inside and outside, and also the tops, with melted butter. Place them both in a moderate oven and bake them until they are brown and crisp. Mean- while prepare the mixture. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, and mix with a wooden Shrimp Rolls spoon until smooth. Add the fish stock or milk, stir until boiling, and cook 2 or 3 minutes. Then remove from the fire, add the shrimps, seasoning, and yolks of eggs beaten with the cream. Mix thoroughly and make quite hot over the fire without allowing the mixture to boil. Fill up the rolls with the mixture, put on the tops, and serve on a folded serviette garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 6 persons. 333. Shrimp Scallops (Coquilles de Crevettes) 3 doz. shrimps. 1 pt. fish stock. 1 glass white wine. 1 cupful bechamel sauce. 2 tab.-sps. grated cheese. Seasoning. 1 oz. butter. Puree of potatoes. Cook the shrimps in fish stock, then strain them and remove the snells. Put the shells into a mortar and pound them with a little of the stock. Heat the bechamel sauce (Recipe 672) in a saucepan and add the pounded shells to it. Allow the sauce to boil for a few minutes, and then rub it through a tammy. Put the wine into another small sauce- pan and reduce it to half quantity over the fire. Then put in the shrimps and let them heat in the wine for a few minutes. Now add the sauce. Season to taste, and stir in the butter at the last. To Finish.—Take some natural or china scallop shells and put some of the above mixture into each. Then put some well-made potato puree (Recipe 549) into a forcing bag with a large rose pipe at the end of it, and force a border of the potato round each little dish. Sprinkle the grated cheese over, and brown in a quick oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Sufficient for 6 or 7 scallops. PART V FISH REDRESSED, ETC. 334. Fish Baked in Batter 1 lb. cooked fish. I Grated lemon rind. 1 dessert-sp. chopped Salt, pepper. parsley. | 1 oz. butter. Batter—J lb. flour. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. Salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, break it into flakes, and then weigh it. Put it into a greased pie dish, and season carefully with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind, and the chopped parsley. Melt the butter, pour it over the seasoned fish, and turn over and over until all is thoroughly mixed. To Make the Batter.—Sieve the flour into a basin, and with a wooden spoon make a well in the centre of it. Break one of the eggs into a cup or small basin; do not beat it, but if it is quite fresh, drop it into the centre of the flour. Mix some of the flour gradually into it with the wooden spoon, do the same with the second egg, and then add half the milk by degrees. Beat the batter well until it is perfectly smooth and full of air bubbles, then add the rest of the milk and mix it in. If time permits, let this batter stand some time; it will give the flour time to swell and make it lighter. Then pour it over the fish and wipe round the edges of the pie dish. Bake in a moderate oven until the batter is well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Serve as soon after it is taken from the oven as possible. Notes.—The dish may be made richer by adding a few oysters, shrimps, or slices of hard-boiled egg, and f tea-spoonful of finely-powdered herbs may be used instead of, or in addition to, the parsley. Time to bake, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 335. Fish Cakes, 1 (Boulettes de Poisson) | lb. cooked fish. | lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. ltea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. anchovy or shrimp essence. Pepper and salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. The remains of any cold cooked fish may be used for making fish cakes. A mixture of fish scraps is very good, such as smoked fish and fresh fish combined. Free the fish from all skin and bone, then weigh it. Chop it finely, being most careful to remove any small bones, which might be most dangerous if left in. Sieve the potatoes, or put them through a vegetable presser, and chop the parsley very finely. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan, then add to it the fish, potatoes, parsley, yolk of egg, and seasonings, and mix well together over the fire. Turn out on to a pi ate, smooth over with a knife, and set aside to cool. When the mixture