36 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD the meat, fish, vegetable, or other ingredients of which it is composed, through a sieve or colander and serving them in the soup. A puree can be made of almost any vegetable, whether fresh or dried, and of meat, game, fish, and some farinaceous substances such as rice, barley, macaroni, &c. The farinaceous or starchy vege- tables, such as potatoes, peas, beaus, and lentils, require no additional thickening to bind them together, since the flour they contain is sufficient to make a smooth and even puree, but the more watery vegetables, such as celery, carrots, turnips, vegetable marrow, &c., require some farinaceous substance, or yolks of eggs, added to make them cohere. The ingredients of which a puree is com- posed must always be simmered slowly until quite soft and pulpy, in order to facilitate the sieving pro- cess. Although a pur4e is never so smooth and soft as when rubbed through a hair sieve or tammy, when time and labour have to be considered a wire sieve or colander will suffice. For Sieving, see p. 40. A puree can always be rendered richer by the addition of some cream and one or two yolks of eggs, just before bringing it to table, or sometimes a small quantity of butter broken in small pieces is added at the last. A puree should be of the consistency of thick cream, and is usually served with crohtons of bread, or with “ pulled ” bread served on a separate dish. Quantity of Soup to Allow.—The usual quantity of soup to allow is | pint per person, but this is a liberal allowance when only one helping is reckoned on; and at a dinner of many courses, where there are more than four or five persons, the quantity may be considerably less. On the other hand, if the soup is to form an important part of the meal, rather more than \ pint per person should be allowed. THE MAKING OF STOCK AND THE STOCK POT General Remarks on Stock Making.—Stock is the liquid into which the juice and flavour of various nutritive substances have been drawn by means of long, slow cooking. In one form or another it serves as a foundation for most of our soups, and, besides furnishing the liquid part of stews, whether white or brown, it will go a long way towards making gravies and sauces a success. Stock can be made from various materials, and although meat and bones, cooked or uncooked and flavoured with vegetables, are the usual materials, poultry, game, or fish with vegetables, and even vegetables alone, can all be utilised for the purpose. For the better soups, such as clear soup and good white soup, fresh meat is required, while second stock, general stock, or meat boilings will serve for the making of most of the ordinary soups. Stock, and especially meat stock, should always be made the day before it is wanted, as a good result can only be obtained by long, slow cooking; it is only by this means, too, that the fat can be successfully removed from the top of the stock. The Flavouring of Stock.—This must be done very judiciously. In meat stocks the flavour of vegetables must not overpower the flavour of the meat, and one flavouring must not predominate over another. Spices and herbs must also be used with caution. Although quantities such as 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, &c., are given in the following recipes, discretion must be exercised as to the size of the vegetable chosen. As a general rule, from 4 to 6 oz. of vegetable flavourings is sufficient to allow to each pound of meat. Carrot, turnip, onion, and celery are the vege- tables generally used for flavouring stock, but there are others which can very well be employed in addition to these, such as leek, tomato, parsnip, artichoke, &c.; mushrooms also give a good flavour, especially in game or the darker meat stocks. In the following recipes the vegetables are always spoken of as “ prepared,” but full directions for doing this will be found in the “ Vegetable ” section of the book and under their respective headings. Vegetables used for flavouring stock should either be cut in blocks or left whole if they are small, they must never be chopped in small pieces. Neither should they be allowed to remain too long in the stock, as after a certain time they only absorb the meaty flavours instead of imparting any of their own goodness to the stock. So if a large quantity of meat is being used and the stock is likely to cook for many hours, the vegetables should either not be put in at the beginning or be lifted out before the stock has finished cooking. For this reason many cooks put the flavouring vegetables into a string bag, so that they can easily be removed. Stock vegetables can very well be served as a separate vegetable dish by themselves, or else made into a pur6e by mashing them up with a little butter or cream. A bunch of herbs or a bouquet garni, so often men- tioned in connection with stocks and soups, con- sistsof a sprig of thyme, parsley, marjoramand basil, a strip of lemon peel, a bay-leaf, &c., tied together with a piece of cotton or fine string. It is of course not absolutely necessary to have all this variety, one or other can always be omitted if not procur- able. When fresh herbs cannot be had, a prepara- tion of dried herbs can be substituted, and if in small pieces they should be tied in a piece of muslin. Any spices used, such as cloves, peppercorns, mace, allspice, &c., should also be tied in muslin; and also celery seed when it is used as a substitute for fresh celery. A word might be said here about the adding of wine to soup or stock. This must also be done with caution. A little wine is a great improve- ment in many cases, but an overdose will utterly destroy the flavour of a good soup, while it will never make an otherwise poor soup anything else but poor. The addition of colouring matter is another thing to be guarded against, it is only in rare cases that this should be necessary. DIFFERENT KINDS OF STOCK The following are some of the different kinds of stock which can be made :— Brown Stock.—Made principally from beef and beef bones, with sometimes a little veal or some chicken or game bones added, and usually flavoured with vegetables. White Stock.—Made principally from white meat, such as veal, rabbit, chicken, or mutton, with some- times a calf’s foot, a piece of calf’s head, or an