SAUCES SAVOURY AND SWEET 193 with a wooden spoon or small wire whisk. Cut a small wedge from the cork of the salad oil bottle, large enough to allow the oil to come out, drop by drop, when it is held up. Keep stirring the yolks all the time with the right hand, and dropping in the oil from the bottle with the left, until the sauce is so thick that it is stirred with difficulty. One gill is about the usual quantity required for two yolks, but there is no necessity to measure it. Next add the vinegars gradually, and mix well. N-otes.—If this sauce is not kept cool, or the oil mixed in too quickly, it will curdle. It cannot be made in a hurry. If it should curdle, the fault may be remedied by putting a fresh yolk into another basin and adding the sauce very slowly to it, stirring all the time. A whiter sauce can be made by using lemon juice instead of vinegar. More or less vinegar may be added to the sauce according to taste, and according to the purpose for which it is to be used. When used for dressing a salad, it should be thinned down considerably with vinegars. If used for coating joints of meat, a little liquid aspic is usually added to make it stiffen. If this sauce has to be kept for several hours before using, cover the basin containing it with a cloth wrung out of very cold water. This will prevent a skin forming on the top. If bottled and kept in a cool dark place, it will keep good for a week or longer. Be particular to use good oil. When the taste of the oil is not liked, two table-spoonfuls of thick whipped cream may be stirred into the sauce at the last, which will tone down the taste. Or cream may be used instead of the oil. When mayonnaise sauce is required often and in large quantities a special mayonnaise mixer should Mayonnaise Mixer be bought, which will considerably lessen the labour of making it, besides saving time. The mixer is a basin with a funnel at the side through which the oil falls drop by drop, and a dash wheel which is kept moving round and round by means of a handle. 754. Green Mayonnaise Take a handful of parsley, watercress, and chervil, mixed in equal quantities, wash and pick them carefully. Put them into a saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, boil 6 or 7 minutes, then drain and press as dry as possible. Put the greens into a mortar, pound them well and rub through a fine sieve. Add this green puree to a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce to make it a pretty apple-green colour. If not perfectly smooth, wring the sauce through a tammy-cloth. 755. Red Mayonnaise Wash and dry some lobster coral, pound it in a mortar, and rub it through a hair sieve. Add this to some mayonnaise sauce to make it a pretty pink colour. 756. Mint Sauce (Sauce Menthe) 2 table-sps. chopped mint. 1 table-sp. brown sugar. 2 table-sps. boiling water. 1 gill brown vinegar. Put the sugar into a basin or sauce-boat, pour over it the boiling water and stand until dissolved. Wash the mint, which should be young and fresh, pick it from the stalks, dry, and chop it finely. Mix all the ingredients together and stand two or three hours before serving. Serve with roast lamb. 757. Sauce Ravigote (Cold) Salad dressing. 1 tea-sp. each chopped parsley, gherkin, capers, chervil, and tarragon. Make the salad dressing according to Recipe 749, and add to it the above ingredients all finely chopped. A little finely chopped chives or shallot may also be added if liked. 758. Sauce Rgmoulade | pt. mayonnaise sauce. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. chopped tar- ragon. 1 tea-sp. chopped chervil 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kins. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. \ tea-sp. made mus- tard. A pinch of cayenne. Make the mayonnaise sauce, add to it all the above ingredients and mix well. Serve with cold fish or as a salad dressing. 759. Sauce Tartare \ pt. mayonnaise sauce. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley I tea-sp.chopped capers. 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kin. 1 tea-sp. each chopped tarragon and cher- vil. A pinch of sugar. Put the mayonnaise sauce into a basin and add to it all the other ingredients. Keep in a cool place until required. If the flavour of garlic is liked, rub round the basin with a small piece before putting in the sauce. SAVOURY BUTTERS These butters will be found useful in the making of many little tasty savouries and hors d'oeuvres. They are also very good for sandwiches and for serving with grills. 760. Anchovy Butter (Beurre d’Anchois) 4 or 5 preserved an- I 2 oz. butter, chovies. I Seasoning. Wash the anchovies in warm water, dry them and scrape off the skin. Pound them in a mortar with the butter, season to taste and rub through a hair sieve. Keep the butter in a cool place or on ice until wanted. Sometimes the yolk of a hard-boiled egg is added to the above ingredients. Anchovy essence may be used instead of the pre- N