133 VEGETABLES AND SALADS •with pepper and salt and stew slowly for £ hour. Mix the cornflour with a little cold water, add it to the contents of the saucepan along with the butter and stir until smooth and the cornflour cooked. Then serve in a hot dish and sprinkle the parsley over. Time to cook, about | hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 419. Beetroot and Potatoes 1 or 2 cooked beetroots. 2 onions. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 1 table-sp. flour. £ pt. milk or vegetable stock. Pepper, salt. 1 tea-sp. sugar. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. A border of potatoes. Skin and scald the onions and slice them very thinly. Put them into a saucepan with the butter and a little pepper and salt and cook over the fire for 10 minutes, but without browning. Add the flour, mix it in and then pour on the milk or stock and stir until boiling. Then put in the beetroot cut in thin, neat pieces, put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for 20 minutes. Add the sugar and vinegar just before serving. Arrange a potato border (see Recipe 543) on a hot dish, put the stewed beetroot in the centre and sprinkle the chopped parsley over. Time to cook, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 420. Beetroot (Cold Dressed) 2 boiled beetroots. Salt, i 1 doz. peppercorns. 1 gill brown vinegar. | 4 cloves. 1 blade of mace. Take two or more cooked beetroots, peel them and cut them in thin slices. Put these in a jar and sprinkle well with salt. Boil the vinegar with the other seasonings for about 10 minutes, then strain and when cold pour over the sliced beetroot. Set aside for several hours and use as required with cold meat. A little grated horse-radish is sometimes added. 421. Beetroot Tops These when young make a very nice dish of greens, and can be used in the same way as spinach. Broccoli (Brocoli) Brussels sprouts are best when young and small, not larger than a walnut, and compact and round Brussels Sprouts in form. They must be very fresh and should be chosen as much one size as possible. 422. Brussels Sprouts with Butter (Choux de Bruxelles au Beurre) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. Salt, pepper. 1 oz. butter. To Prepare the Sprouts.—First trim them neatly, removing any discoloured leaves and cutting off any unnecessary length of stalk. Make a slit across the stalk of each to allow them to cook more easily, then wash them carefully as they are very apt to harbour insects. Allow them to soak for half an hour in cold water to which a few drops of vinegar have been added, then rinse and drain in a colander. To Cook the Sprouts.—Place them in a perforated steamer and steam over boiling water until they can be pierced easily with a fork. They should be tender and delicate without being overcooked. Or, they may be boiled and drained according to direc- tions given for cabbage. To Finish.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, toss the sprouts in it, sprinkling them with pepper and salt, and serve them very hot. Sometimes a little cream is added. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. This is very similar to the cauliflower, but it comes from a more hardy plant and is more easily cultivated. There are both white and purple specimens, and the heads are not generally so compact as those of the cauliflower. Broccoli is a valuable winter vegetable, and it comes into season just as the cauliflower is going out. It can be cooked in the same way as the cauliflower, to which it is very little inferior. Brussels Sprouts (Choux de Bruxelles) This vegetable is one of the best of the cabbage tribe and one of the most delicate of greens. It is much valued, and especially so as it is in season in winter when other green vegetables are scarce. 423. Brussels Sprouts with Sauce Prepare and cook the sprouts as above, put them in a hot vegetable dish and coat them with a good sauce, such as maitre d’hotel, white, or cream sauce 424. Brussels Sprouts, To Fry (Choux de Bruxelles Frits) 1 lb. Brussels sprouts. I A little flour. Salt, pepper. [ Egg and bread-crumbs. Prepare and cook the sprouts as in last recipe, but remove them from the steamer before they are quite ready. Dry them gently in the folds of a towel and coat them lightly with flour with which a little pepper and salt have been mixed. Then egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249), and fry in boiling