STOCKS AND SOUPS 37 ox foot added, and usually flavoured with vege- tables. First and Second Stock.—First stock is the first boiling of the meat and vegetables. Second stock is produced by putting the meat and vegetables on to boil a second time with fresh water. Fish Stock, as its name implies, is made from fish or fish trimmings with vegetables added to give flavour. The addition of a few trimmings of shellfish are also an improvement. Game Stock.—Made from any kind of game or trimmings of game, with vegetables added to give flavour. Bone Stock.—Made from bones alone, with vege- tables added to flavour. Vegetable Stock.—Made from vegetables alone, either dried or fresh, or a mixture of the two. It is used principally in the making of vegetarian soups and other vegetarian dishes. General Stock.—Made from miscellaneous scraps of meat, bones, and vegetables, and drawn from a stock pot. Meat Boilings or Pot Liquor is the name given to the water in which a joint of meat, fowl, or rabbit has been boiled. It is the simplest kind of stock. Directions for making the different kinds of stock are given below. Glaze.—This is stock which is so much reduced in quantity that it forms almost a solid substance when cold. It is a means of preserving any super- fluous stock. First Stock for Clear and Brown Soups 3 lbs. beef (shin or stick- ing piece) or 2 lbs. beef and 1 lb. knuckle of veal. 3 qts. cold water. T carrot. 1 turnip. 2 small onions. 2 leeks. 2 or 3 sticks of celery, or J tea-sp. celery seed. A bunch of herbs. 1 doz. peppercorns. 6 cloves. 1 blade of mace. 1 dessert-sp. salt. A few scraps of lean ham or a small ham bone. The meat for this stock must be very carefully chosen. It must be very fresh and juicy and have a fair proportion of bone and very little fat. Shin of beef is what is usually selected as it is gelatinous and produces a good jelly, but the neck or sticking piece is also valuable for the purpose and makes a stronger flavoured and more nutritious stock. Veal is often used along with the beef, as it gives a certain delicacy of flavour. Any uncooked chicken or game bones may also be added, and will all go to improve the flavour of the stock, but scraps of cooked meat must never be put in. Always keep the proper proportion of meat and water, i.e. 1 qt. of water to each 1 lb. of meat and bones. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, and remove all marrow from the bones. Take a very sharp knife and cut the meat into small pieces or blocks, keeping back any fat, but using the skin and gristle. Break the bones in small pieces so that all the goodness can be extracted from them. Put the bones, meat, and trimmings of ham or ham bone into a large saucepan with the cold water and salt, and if time permits let them soak for hah an hour, or until the water is well reddened. Then put the saucepan on the fire and bring the contents slowly to the boil. Simmer slowly for half an hour, and then remove any scum that may be on the top. If the skimming is begun too soon, the best part of the stock is removed. When the stock has cooked about an hour and is clear of scum add the vegetables, pre- pared and cut in small blocks, the bunch of herbs and spices tied in a small piece of muslin. Simmer slowly from four to five hours longer, never letting it go off the boil and skimming when necessary. Then strain through a hair sieve, or cloth stretched over a colander, into a basin and stand until cold. If well made, the stock should be clear, brown, and transparent, and form a stiff jelly when cold. When used for clear soup or consomme it is generally further cleared with raw beef or the whites and shells of eggs. Notes.—A darker coloured stock may be obtained by frying the meat in a little dripping or butter before pouring on the water, but the present fashion is to have clear soups pale in colour. Do not throw away the meat and vegetables left after straining. The meat may be put on again, with the same quantity of water as before and some fresh vegetables, and a second stock made (see below). First Stock for White Soups 3 lbs. knuckle of veal or 2 lbs. knuckle of veal and 1 lb. neck or shank of mutton. A small ham bone. 3 qts. cold water. \ carrot. \ turnip. 1 onion and 1 leek. 1 stick of celery or £ tea-sp. celery seed. 4 cloves. A small bunch of herbs. 1 blade of mace. 8 white peppercorns. 1 dessert-sp. salt. This stock is used as the foundation for good white soups. Veal is the meat usually selected for its manufacture, but any white meat may be used, such as rabbit, mutton, chicken or calves’ feet, or a piece of calf’s head. A mixture of meat always produces stock of a better flavour than that which is made from one kind of meat alone. The best white stock is that which is made from a mixture of veal and chicken. Mutton has very little flavour of its own, but the shank bones can very well be used along with some veal, or a calf’s foot, or a piece of a calf’s head along with veal. Rabbit by itself is too strong in flavour, except for rabbit soup, but used along with veal it makes a nice stock. A piece of ham or a ham bone is always an improve- ment in white stock. Be particular to keep the proper proportion of meat and water, i.e. 1 qt. water to 1 lb. meat and bones. When making white stock follow the directions given for first stock for brown soup, using fewer vegetables, as they tend to discolour the stock. The meat and bones must of course never be browed. A second stock may be taken from the meat and bones (see below). Second Stock After first stock is made, the meat should be put on again with the same quantity of water as before and a fresh supply of vegetables, herbs, and spices and boiled as before. Naturally it will not have the same fresh flavour as first stock, but it will be found most useful in the making of sauces and gravies, qnd of many soups for which a very good stock is not required.