344 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD tightly into it. Make it level at the top, with just a small rim of pastry standing above it all the way round. Then take the piece of pastry that has been kept warm, roll it out rather thinly, and cut out a round large enough to cover the top of the pie. Wet round the edge of this round with cold water, lay it on the top of the pie, and press the two edges well together. Trim them neatly with a pair of scissors, leaving a ridge half an inch high standing straight up round the pie. Snip this round with a pair of scissors, making the cuts \ inch apart, and then double one piece in and one out alternately. Brush the pie all over, top and sides, with beaten egg, and make a small hole in the top with a skewer or the point of a knife. Roll out any trimmings of pastry that are left, and cut out email leaves and strips of pastry and decorate the Eie with them. Brush the decorations also with eaten egg, and place the pie on a greased tin. Bake in a moderate oven until the pastry is set and brown, and the meat feels tender when tested with a skewer. When the pie is ready, lift it from the oven, and fill it up with stock that will jelly when cold. If the stock used is not stiff enough, dissolve a sheet of gelatine in it. Pour in the stock through a filler placed in the hole at the top of the pie. Raised pies are usually served cold. Notes.—The pie may, if liked, be lined with pork sausage meat before putting in the veal, &c. When making a larger pie, tie a stiff band of white paper round the outside of the paste, and bake until nearly ready with this, then remove the paper and allow the pie to brown. Time to bake, 1 £ to 2 hours. Probable cost. Is. 4d. 1473. Raised Pork Pie (Patd de Pore) f lb. fresh pork. \ tea-sp. powdered sage. 1 dessert-sp. chopped onion. Pepper and salt. A little stock. Raised pie crust. Recipe First prepare the meat. Wipe it well with a damp cloth, and weigh it free from skin and bone. Cut it in small pieces, and season it with pepper, salt, and finely powdered sage and chopped onion, mixing all well together. Then make the raised pie crust and shape and finish off the pie as directed for Raised Veal and Ham (see above). The meat should be moistened with a little water or stock after it is put into the crust, and some warm jelly stock should be poured in through the hole in the top after the pie is cooked. If the stock is not stiff enough, dissolve a sheet of gelatine in it before using. Serve cold. Time to cook, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1474. Small Mutton Pies | lb. lean mutton. | Gravy. Seasoning. | Raised pie crust. Any scraps or trimmings of mutton may be used for making little pies, but they must not be too fat. Cut them in small pieces, removing all skin, bone, and gristle. Season with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little nutmeg or mace, and just moisten with water or gravy. For six pies make double the quantity of raised pie crust given in Recipe 1444, and mix it up as hot as possible. Put aside about one-third of the paste to keep warm, and divide the rest into six equal-sized pieces. Form each of these pieces into a smooth ball, and then form them into little cases. This may either be done with the thumbs and fingers or round a tumbler. Fill them with the meat, and then raise up the sides again with the hands. Roll out the paste, which has been kept warm, and cut out rounds to make covers for the pies. Wet round the edges, lay them over the pies with the wetted side down, and press the two edges of paste firmly together. Trim round with a pair of scissors, make a small hole in the top of the pies, and brush them over with a little milk or egg. Bake in a good oven. When the pies are ready to be served they should be filled up with a little hot gravy. Time to bake, about £ hour. Probable cost, 2d. each. 1475. Raised Game 2 partridges or grouse. J lb. veal. £ lb. ham. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 2 or 3 slices cooked tongue. 1 or 2 chopped shallots. Pie (Patd de Gibier) Salt, pepper. A little grated nutmeg. 2 tea-sps. chopped parsley. 1 gill jelly stock. Raised pie crust. A little glaze. Almost any uncooked game may be used for making a pie, or a mixture of game is very good. Pick and clean the birds, and cut them in neat joints. If large, the carcass bones should be re- moved and used for making stock. Chop up the livers and hearts, fry them for a few minutes in butter, and then mix them with the pieces of game. Now prepare a forcemeat; cut the veal and ham in pieces, and put them once or twice through a mincing machine, add the bread-crumbs to the mince, and season well with pepper, salt, the grated rind of f lemon, and a little nutmeg. Make some raised pie crust as directed in Recipe 1445, and roll Raised Game Pie it out about one-third of an inch in thickness. Grease a raised pie mould and line it with the paste, pressing it carefully into the shape of the mould. Put a layer of the forcemeat all over the pastry, and fill up the centre with the pieces of game and tongue cut in strips, seasoning them with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley and shallot. Cover with another layer of the forcemeat and then put on a lid of pastry. Trim the edges neatly, make a hole in the top, and decorate with some leaves of pastry. Brush over with beaten egg, and tie a band of greased paper round the outside of the mould and standing about 3 inches above