SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 243 aud then simmer very slowly until tender, allow- ing 25 minutes to the pound and 25 minutes over. (See also General Directions for Boiling Meat.) If liked a few neat pieces of carrot and parsnip may be cooked along with the pork. When ready, place the meat on a hot dish, strain some of the liquid round, and garnish with the vegetables. Serve pease pudding (Recipe 635), a dish of broad beans, or some well-cooked greens separately. Boiled salt pork is also very good served cold. Note.—The remainder of the liquid should be reserved for making pea or lentil soup. 981. Pork, Roasted Choose a piece of pork with a thin rind and score the rind across at intervals of \ inch with a very sharp knife. If this were not done, it would be impossible to cut through the skin when the joint was cooked. If the butcher is asked, he will do this scoring before sending the joint home. Wipe the meat, brush it over with a little salad oil, and then roast it according to general directions for roasting (see p. 207). When nearly ready, turn the meat with the rind downwards and roast 10 to 15 minutes to brown the under side, then turn again and roast a few minutes longer. Serve with either clear or thickened gravy, and apple or gooseberry sauce, green vegetables and simply cooked potatoes. Savoury batter and baked sage and onion stuffing are also good accompaniments. Stewed prunes or plums may be served instead of apple sauce. Note.—If preferred, one of the bones may be removed from the pork, the sage and onion stuffing inserted, well secured, and roasted with the meat, but as a rule it is a more satisfactory method to cook the stuffing separately, as it is less rich. 982. Pork Cutlets (Cotelettes de Pore) 5 or 6 pork cutlets. I 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. | Fried apples. The cutlets should be taken from the loin or the best end of the neck and must not be more than J an inch in thickness. Trim them neatly, remov- ing most of the fat, and try to make them of uni- form shape. Season with pepper and salt and coat lightly with flour. Melt some of the fat trimmings in a frying pan and fry the cutlets in this. Turn them several times, and be careful to cook them thoroughly, or they will be most unwholesome. Serve them on a very hot dish and garnish with fried apples. Fried Apples.—Cut some rather acid apples in quarters, removing the core, but not the skin. Then fry the pieces in butter until tender, but not broken. Notes.—Apple sauce may be served instead of the fried apples, and the cutlets may be sprinkled with a little finely powdered sage. They may also be egged and bread-crumbed, although this makes them somewhat heavy. Pork cutlets may also be broiled. They should be dipped in a little butter, or some of their own fat melted, before being put on the broiler. Mashed or plainly boiled potatoes should be served separately. Time to fry, 10 to 12 minutes. Sufficient for 6 or 6 persons. Probable cost, lOd. per lb. 983. Sucking Pig, Roasted 1 sucking pig. Chestnut or sausage meat stuffing. A little salad oil. Brown gravy. Horse-radish. Apple sauce or jelly. A little pig for roasting should not be more than three or four weeks old. It ought to be cooked when freshly killed. Have it well washed and dried, and season the inside with pepper and salt. Pre- pare some chestnut or sausage meat stuffing (see Recipes 1279), parboil and chop the liver and add it to it. Put this stuffing into the pig and sew it up. Then place the little pig on a roasting tin, bend the hind feet forward and the fore feet back- wards, and fix them with two skewers close to the body. Now brush over the body with salad oil or melted butter, and tie several folds of well-greased paper over the back. Roast in a good oven, basting frequently. A short time before it is ready remove the paper to allow the back to brown. The skin should be brown and crisp, but without blisters. When ready, remove the trussing thread and skewers, cut the pig right through the middle from head to tail, and then cut off the two pieces of head. Serve the body back to back on a hot dish and place a half head at each end. Garnish with the horse-radish and a little parsley. Mix some good gravy in the roasting-tin (see p. 207) and serve it separately along with apple sauce or apple jelly. Note.—Veal or sage and onion stuffing may be used instead of the above. Time to roast, 2 to 2| hours. Probable cost, 6s. to 10s. 984. Pork Stew 1 i to 2 lbs. pork. 1 lb. potatoes. Boiling water. Forcemeat balls. I or 2 onions. Chopped parsley. Any part of fresh pork will do for this, but it must not be too fat. Wipe and trim the meat carefully, and cut it in pieces about 1 inch square. Place the pieces in a stewpan, season with pepper and salt, and cover with boiling water. Simmer a few minutes and skim if necessary. Then add the onions prepared and cut in thin slices ; put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for 1 hour until the meat is nearly tender. Now add the potatoes, peeled and cut in quarters, r.nd stew \ hour longer. A few savoury forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288) may also be added a few minutes before serving, and the chopped parsley at the last. Serve with the potatoes and balls round the dish and the meat in the centre*