209 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES position and from 3 to 6 inches above the coals, according to the intensity of the heat. Brush the meat over with salad oil or melted butter. Lay it on the gridiron, and let one side cook while you count ten, at about the same rate as the ticking of a clock. Then turn and cook the same length of time on the other side, repeating the process until the meat is sufficiently cooked. Regular turning is very important, as it means slower cooking and prevents the surface from being browned. The turn- ing should be done with a pair of steak tongs, or, failing that, with a spoon ancl knife, or by sticking a fork into the fat of the meat. The meat itself must never be pierced, as that would allow some of the juice to escape. The time for grilling must be re- gulated by the thickness, rather than by the weight of the meat, and ex- perience alone can teach when a chop or steak is done to a nicety. Touch is the best guide. If, when pressed with the back of a fork, the meat feels spongy and very elastic, it is still in a raw state; if, on the other hand, it is hard and without resistance, it is overcooked. The aim must be to hit the happy medium, and serve the meat well browned on both sides, before that puffed appearance has disappeared and all the steam of the juices has escaped through the crust. Broiling can also be done in a hanging gridiron fixed in front of a clear fire. This is generally Steak Tonga Hanging Grill double, the meat to be cooked being put between the two sides, and the grill itself is turned in this case. When a gas stove is used the grilling is done underneath the light instead of on the top (see p- 21). A little water put in the dripping tin will prevent the fat catching fire. Frying Frying is one of the quickest methods of cooking meat, but it is only suited to small and tender cuts. Cheap and tough meat should never be cooked by this process. There are two different methods of frying : 1. Dry Frying or, properly speaking, sauteing, is cooking in a shallow pan or frying pan with a small quantity of fat. The fat. must be made quite hot, and then the meat placed in it and cooked on both sides. Chops and steaks may be cooked in this way, although they are not so digestible as when grilled. Slices of liver, sheep’s kidneys, and sausages may also be cooked by this method. 2. Deep Frying, or Frying Proper.—This method is best suited to made-up dishes of meat, such as fritters, rissoles, croquettes, &c. The articles to be fried are generally protected with a coating of batter or egg and bread-crumbs before they are submerged in boiling fat. (For full directions for this kind of frying see p. 248.) Stewing Stewing means long slow cooking in a small quantity of liquid, in a covered vessel and at a low temperature. It is one of the most economical ways of cooking : firstly, because there is nothing lost, any juice that is drawn from the meat is served in the gravy ; secondly, because the coarser and cheaper pieces of meat may be used, as the long slow cooking makes them tender ; and, thirdly, very little fuel is required, and very little attention when once the stew has been set agoing. A stew is generally a mixture of meat and vegetables, and success depends very much upon the careful seasoning and blending of flavours. In some cases the meat is lightly fried or seared before it is stewed; this prevents the escape of some of the juices and gives colour to the stew. In others, the meat is simply put on in the liquid in which it is to be cooked. This liquid may either be thin, such as water or stock, or a thickened sauce or gravy. A thin liquid is always to be preferred for tough meat, as it penetrates and softens the fibre better. If the meat is very tough, a little vinegar is sometimes used to make it more tender. A stew may be cooked either in a stewpan or in a jar, and either on the top of the stove or in the oven. A double saucepan is also very useful for this mode of cooking, or the saucepan containing it may be placed in a larger one containing hot water. The lid should be removed as seldom as possible, and it should fit the saucepan or jar tightly, so as to avoid waste through evaporation. The time for stewdng wall depend on the kind of meat used and the size of the pieces. When sufficiently cooked the fibre of the meat should be soft and loose, and the chief point to remember i# that the process must not be hurried. Examples of different kinds of stews will be found in the following recipes. Stewing in Earthenware This method of cooking is becoming very popular, and the simple clay casseroles, which can now bo bought in so many different shapes and sizes, are 0