FRUIT COMPOTES AND PRESERVES 465 Put the sugar, water, and syrup from the tinned fruit into a saucepan, and allow them to boil 10 minutes. Then strain into a basin, and when cold, strain in the lemon juice and add the wine or liqueur. Pour this dressing over the fruit, and allow it to stand in a cool place at least 1 hour. The chopped walnuts may either be mixed with the fruit or sprinkled over the top. If no fruit syrup is avail- able, use more sugar and water. The wine may be omitted. Whipped cream and sweet biscuits may be served separately. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 2106. Mixed Fruit Salad, Summer (Salade de Fruits) 1 cupful strawberries. 1 cupful raspberries. 2 bananas. 1 cupful red or white currants. 1 table-sp. shred pis- tachio nuts or 1 table- sp. cocoanut. Dressing. J lb. loaf sugar. 1 gill water. 1 glass claret or Bur- gundy. 1 dessert-sp. brandy. Prepare the fruit, and mix it lightly in a salad bowl. Boil the sugar and water together until they form a syrup, skim if necessary. Allow the syrup to cool, add the wine and brandy, and pour over the fruit. Stand in a cool place for several hours, and sprinkle the nuts over the top just before serving. Whipped cream and wafer or finger biscuits may be served separately. may be used instead of the cocoanut, or they may be omitted altogether. 2109. Oranges in Wine Peel the required number of oranges and care- fully remove all the white pith. Cut them in thin slices and take out the seeds. Arrange the slices neatly in a glass or china dish, dredge them with enough castor sugar to sweeten, and then barely cover with some good wine, such as sherry, port, or Madeira. Stand the oranges in a cool place, or on ice, for not more than \ hour and then serve. 2110. Strawberry Salad 1 lb. ripe strawberries. red-currant juice. 1 cupful fine sugar. Whipped cream. 1 small cupful orange or Prepare the strawberries, and if large cut them in pieces. Sieve the sugar and sprinkle it over them. Toss the two lightly together, and then let them rest \ hour. Add the fruit juice, and set in a cool place for 1 hour at least. Serve in glass cups or small china dishes placed on a few straw- berry leaves, and put a spoonful of whipped and sweetened cream on the top of each. Serve wafer or finger biscuits separately. Note.—Liqueur may be used instead of the fruit juice. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 2111. Watermelon Salad 2107. Banana and Raspberry Cups 4 or 5 bananas. I 2 table-sps. castor sugar. 1 lb. raspberries. Peel the bananas and cut them in small thin pieces with a silver knife. Pick the raspberries, mash them with the sugar, and then rub them through a hair or fine wire sieve. Half fill small cups or custard glasses with the bananas, and cover with the raspberry puree. Serve very cold with finger or other fancy biscuits. Notes.—A little orange or lemon juice, or some brandy or liqueur, may be sprinkled over the bananas before pouring on the puree, and a little whipped cream may be put on the top of the cups. Other fruits, such as strawberries, red or black currants, or apricots may be used instead of the raspberries. 2108. Orange and Banana Salad 3 oranges. 3 bananas. 2 table-sps. desiccated cocoanut. 1 tea-cupful loaf sugar. 1 tea-cupful water. Peel the oranges, carefully removing all the white pith, and cut them in very thin slices with a sharp knife. Remove the skin from the bananas and cut them also in slices, using a silver knife to prevent discoloration. Arrange the fruit in a salad dish, sprinkling over each layer a little of the cocoanut. Put the sugar and water into a sauce- pan, and boil them together at least 10 minutes. Skim if necessary and allow them to cool. Then pour this syrup over the fruit, and place in a very cool place until wanted. Note.—Other kinds of nuts, finely chopped. Take a nice ripe watermelon, cut it in quarters, and remove all the seeds. Then take all the red fleshy part, and break it in pieces with a silver knife or fork. Put this in a salad bowl, and sprinkle well with castor sugar. Place the bowl on ice or in a very cold place until the melon is thoroughly chilled, then, just before serving, pour over it a glass of claret or port. PART II JAM MAKING A FEW HINTS ON JAM MAKING Fruit for preserving should be uniformly ripe, sound, and fresh, and it should be picked, if pos- sible, on a dry, sunny morning, and not with the dew upon it. If the fruit be gathered under damp conditions, there is nothing more likely than this to prevent the jam from keeping. Fruit should be made into jam as soon as possible after picking. It must first be seen that it is free from all du^t and dirt, after which it must be picked and all stalks removed. The harder kinds of fruit such as apples, plums, gooseberries, and the like may be washed before being preserved. There are several different ways of making jam, and opinions vary as to which is the best. One method is to boil the sugar and water first, and thus make a syrup to which the fruit is added ; another is to cook the fruit by itself first and then to add the sugar in a crushed or half-melted con- dition ; and a third way is to boil both fruit and. sugar together from the beginning. In the follow- 2 G