245 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 991. Faggots 1 lb. pig’s liver. 1 lb. onions. G oz. fat bacon. 1 dessert-sp. parsley. 1 lb. soaked bread. £ tea-sp. mixed spice. 1 tea-sp. mixed herbs. Pig’s caul. Salt. Pepper. First soak some bread in cold water, and when thoroughly softened, squeeze it dry, measure the necessary quantity and beat it up with a fork until free from lumps. Wash and dry the liver, and trim all rind and rust from the bacon. Peel the onions, and cut them up roughly. Then put the liver, bacon, and onions through the mincing machine together; add them to the soaked bread with the herbs finely powdered, the parsley finely chopped, mixed spice, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix thoroughly. Prepare and wash the caul as directed in Recipe 1257, and cut it in pieces about 4 inches square. Put some of the above mixture in the centre of each and wrap each up like a parcel. Place these on a baking tin with the join downwards and bake them in a hot oven at least | hour. 1 lb. pig’s fry. 2 lbs. potatoes. 2 onions. 1 apple. 992. Mock Goose 1 tea-sp. powdered sage. Pepper. Salt. Boiling water. A little flour. Parboil the potatoes and cut them in slices. Wash the fry carefully in several waters, then dry and cut it in small pieces. Coat these lightly with flour and season them with pepper and salt. Choose two medium-sized onions, skin and chop them rather finely, also peel and chop the apple, and mix apple, onion, and powdered sage together. Now grease a pie-dish and put in the different ingredi- ents in layers, adding more pepper and salt where necessary and making the last layer potatoes. Pour over a large cupful of boiling water and cover with a piece of well-greased paper. Bake the mock goose in a moderate oven until all is well cooked. A short time before serving remove the paper in order to let the potatoes brown. Serve very hot. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 993. Pig’s Head, To Pickle and Boil 1 pig’s head. 1 lb. common salt. 1J oz. saltpetre. To Prepare, and Piclcle the Head.—Take a freshly killed pig’s head and scald it in boiling water a few minutes, then scrape the skin well to get rid of the hairs. Now split the head open and remove the eyes, brains, and snout. Cleanse all thoroughly, washing the head in several waters and scraping out the nostrils with a knife. Next soak the head and tongue in strong salt and water overnight, rinse again in fresh water and drain. Mix together the common salt and saltpetre, rub the mixture into every part of the head, and let it lie for 5 or 6 days, turning and basting it every day. Then drain and wash again. To Cook and Serve the Head.—Put the head and tongue into a large saucepan and cover it with warm water. Bring them to the boil and skim well. Now simmer slowly until the head is tender, skim- ming when necessary. When sufficiently cooked, arrange the head neatly on a hot dish and garnish with the tongue skinned and cut in slices. Pease pudding, a green vegetable, or haricot beans may be served separately. Time to cook, about 3 hours. | pig’s head (salted). 2 onions. 4 cloves. 1 doz. peppercorns. 1 blade of mace. sprig of parsley, thyme, andmarjoram. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. Cold water. 994. Brawn A Wash the head thoroughly in tepid water and remove all gristle and soft parts from the nostrils. Rinse well in cold water. Then put the head into a saucepan with cold water to cover it (about 2 quarts) and bring slowly to the boil. Skim care- fully, and add the vegetables cut in pieces and the herbs and spices tied in muslin. Simmer all slowly until the flesh will leave the bones easily, skimming when necessary. When ready, strain the liquid into a basin and put the head on a dish. Next day cut the tongue and meat from the head into small pieces, removing all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat. Skim all fat carefully off the stock and return it to the saucepan with the bones from the head. Boil quickly until reduced to about half the quantity and then strain over the meat. Taste if sufficiently seasoned, stand until slightly cooled, and then pour into wetted moulds. Set aside until quite cold and firm, and, when wanted, turn out on a dish and garnish with some sprigs of parsley. Notes.—If liked, the moulds may first be decorated with some slices of hard-boiled egg. The pig’s feet may be cooked along with the head, or a piece of lean salted pork, if the head by itself is considered too fat. Time to cook, about 3 hours. 995. Pig’s Head, Collared Take a salted pig’s head, wash it well in cold water, and put it with the tongue into a large sauce- pan with cold water to cover it. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well, and then simmer slowly for 2 hours. If liked, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of herbs, and a few pieces of carrot and turnip may be cooked with the head to give flavour. When the head and tongue have cooked the re- quired time, lift them out and let them cool slightly. Skin the tongue and cut it in slices. Bone the head and spread out the two halves on a board. Season with pepper, salt (if necessary), grated lemon rind, and a little grated nutmeg. Lay the slices of tongue on the top of one of the pieces of head, and place the second piece on the top with any scraps inside. Try to make this sandwich of equal thickness by placing the thick part of one cheek over the thin part of the other. Wben all is tidily arranged, tie it up firmly in a cloth like a little roly-poly, and cook again in the same saucepan for another 2 hours, then press the roll between two dishes or boards until cold. Remove the cloth and cut in slices as required. 996. Pig’s Kidneys, Broiled Prepare and cook in the same way as sheep’s kidneys (Recipe 924), allowing rather longer time. The kidneys may be sprinkled with a little powdered sage.