POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 283 the oven until nicely browned. When ready, lift on to a hot dish, remove all trussing threads and strings, and keep it hot whilst making the gravy. The Gravy.—Pour away most of the fat from the roasting tin, leaving only about 1 tea-spoonful. Add the cornflour to this and mix it in. Then pour in the stock, which may be made from the giblets of the duck, and stir until boiling. Cook 2 or 3 minutes, season to taste, skim and strain. A squeeze of orange or lemon juice may be added at the last, also the cooked liver of the duck grated or finely minced. A clear unthickened gravy may be served if preferred. Garnish the duck with a little watercress and serve the sauce separately in a sauce boat. Green peas and potato chips or ribbons are good accompaniments. Notes.—Other stuffings may be used instead of the above, such as sage and onion, or walnut, or plain mashed potatoes nicely seasoned (see Stuff- ings, p. 30T). Or, the duck may be served simply roasted, which is always the most wholesome way. In this case some acid accompaniment should be handed with it, such as apple, tomato, or cranberry sauce, red-currant or guava jelly, walnut pickles, &c. Time to roast, 45 to 50 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1154. Roast Ducklings These may be prepared and cooked in the same ways as ducks. It is not usual to stuff them. Serve with brown gravy, apple jelly, and a salad or green peas. Time to roast, 30 to 35 minutes. 1155. Braised Duck with Olives 1 duck. Some fat bacon. Flavouring vegetables. A bunch of herbs. Seasoning. 3 gills brown stock or sauce. French olives. £ gill white wine. Croutons of bread. Prepare and truss the duck as for roasting. Cover the bottom of a stewpan or braising pan with thin slices of fat bacon, and lay some sliced carrot, turnip,* and onion on the top. Add a small bunch of herbs and make these thoroughly hot. Then put in the duck, season with pepper and salt, and fry or bake until both vegetables and duck are brown. Now pour off any liquid fat and add the stock or thin brown sauce. Cover the saucepan and cook in a fairly hot oven or on the top of the stove until the bird is tender, basting occasionally. When ready, lift out the duck, cut it in joints and arrange neatly on a hot dish. Strain the gravy, reduce it if neces- sary, then skim and strain over the duck. Garnish with croutons of fried bread or pastry and a few olives, which have been stoned and made thoroughly hot in the white wine. Notes.—The duck may be served whole if pre- ferred. Other garnishes may be used instead of the olives. 1156. Duck with Turnips (Canard aux Navets) 1 tender duck. 7 or 8 young turnips. 2 oz. butter. Seasoning. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. 1 table-sp. flour. 1£ pts. stock. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. Prepare and truss the duck as for roasting. Dust with flour and season inside and outside with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a deep stew- pan, put in the duck and turn it over and over until it is nicely browned on all sides. Then re- move the duck and put into the same saucepan the young turnips, which have been prepared and trimmed in neat pieces. Sprinkle them with castor sugar, cook them until lightly coloured, and then lift them on to a plate. Now add the flour to the fat left in the stewpan, mix until smooth and pour in the stock. Bring this to the boil, skim, add the bunch of herbs and onion cut in pieces and season to taste. Return the duck, cover and cook slowly from £ to £ hour, then add the turnips and continue the cooking about | hour longer until the duck and turnips are tender. The duck should be turned occasionally during the cooking, but care must be taken not to break the turnips. When ready, lift the duck on to a hot dish, remove any trussing strings, and then arrange the turnips round. Reduce the sauce if necessary, remove all grease, and strain over and round the duck. Time to cook, hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1157. Duck with Celery 1 young duck. 1 cupful shred celery. Salt. Pepper. 2 or 3 bay-leaves. 2 cupfuls veal or chicken stock. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 table-sp. red currant jelly. Croutons of fried bread or pastry. Cut the duck in neat joints, wash the pieces quickly and dry them in a cloth. Then put them in a baking tin and sprinkle with pepper and salt. Prepare some tender celery and cut it in fine shreds, put this over the duck and add the bay-leaves. Heat half the stock and pour it over and round. Then cover the tin and bake in a good oven until the duck is tender, basting occasionally with the stock and turning the joints over when half cooked. When ready, the stock should have dried up. Ar- range the pieces of duck with the celery neatly on a hot dish and keep them warm whilst making the sauce. Put the butter and flour into the tin in which the duck was cooked, and mix them well over the fire. Then pour in the remainder of the stock, and stir until boiling. Add the ketchup, red-currant jelly, and more seasoning if necessary. Skim well and strain over the duck. Garnish with, croutons of fried bread or pastry, and serve red- currant, guava, or any other acid jelly separately. Note.—A little wine or orange juice may be added to the sauce, also a few chopped mush- rooms if desired. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 1158, 1 duck. 1 lb. veaL £ lb. bacon. Pepper. Salt. Nutmeg. 1 egg. Pflte o! Duck (Pate de Canard) 2 table-sps. biscuit crumbs. 1 glass sherry. 1 lemon. 1 onion. 1 bay-leaf. Choose a young and tender duck, bone it as carefully as possible, and cut the flesh in small neat, pieces. Wipe the veal and cut it up roughly, re-