COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 356 necessary. As they are somewhat insipid in taste, a more acid fruit, such as apples or rhubarb, should be cooked along with them. Peel and slice the apples thinly and pack them into a pie dish with the blackberries and sugar. The last layer should be apples. Pour in the water, cover with short crust or any other suitable pastry, following directions as given above. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1523. Pumpkin Pie \ pt. pumpkin puree. | pt. milk. 2 eggs. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Sugar and spice to taste. Short crust. To make the puree, take a good slice of pumpkin, peel it and remove the seeds and pulpy part from the inside. Cut the pumpkin in slices, and cook it in boiling salted water until tender (about 20 minutes). Then drain thoroughly, and rub the pumpkin through a sieve, or mash it with a fork until reduced to a smooth puree. Now add to this puree the eggs well beaten, milk and lemon juice, also sugar and spice to taste. Mix well together. Have ready a dish or large plate lined with short crust or other pastry (see Open Tart), pour this mixture into it and bake in a good oven until the pastry is cooked and the mixture feels firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot or cold. Note.—If preferred, the mixture may be poured into a pie dish and then covered with the pastry. Time to bake, \ to £ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1524. Pumpkin and Apple Pie Pumpkin. Apples. 1 Spice. Water. Sugar. I Pastry. Prepare some ripe pumpkin in the same way as above and cut it in thin slices. Peel and slice thinly the same quantity of sour and juicy apples. Put the pumpkin and apple into a pie dish with sugar to taste and a small quantity of mixed spice, or if preferred a little grated lemon rind. Pile the mixture rather high in the centre of the pie dish and pour in just a very little water. Now cover the pie with short crust or other pastry as directed on p. 355, brush it over with white of egg or water, dredge with castor sugar and bake in a good oven until the pastry is well browned and cooked, and the apple and pumpkin soft. Serve hot with some good cream. Note.—This is a very good combination, as the tart flavour of the apples brings out the flavour of the pumpkin. 1525. Rhubarb and Fig Tart 2 lbs. rhubarb. 4 lb. figs. [ 4 tea-sp. ground ginger. 1 cupful sugar. " I Pastry. Soak the figs for a short time in hot water, then cut them in small pieces, removing the stalks and any discoloured parts. Wash the rhubarb well, peel it if necessary, and cut it in short lengths. Arrange the two kinds of fruit in a pie dish, sprinkling them with the sugar and ginger. Pile the fruit high in the centre of the dish and press it well together, as it sinks so much in cooking. Then cover with pastry and bake in the usual way (see above). Note.—Dates may be used instead of figs ; they must be stoned and cut in pieces. Time to bake, £ to 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 1526. Mixed Fruit Tart (Summer) Take equal quantities of strawberries, raspberries, and red currants, and pick them all carefully. Mix them together and then arrange them in a pie dish, adding white moist or castor sugar to taste. Cover with pastry and bake as directed on p. 355. Other kinds of fruit may also be used, according to what is in season, the greater variety the better. 1527. Mixed Fruit Tart (Winter)- 1 lb. cranberries. I £ lb. sugar. 4 or 5 apples. 1 4 pt. water. 4 lb. prunes. | Short crust. Wash the prunes, and if time permits soak them for some time, in the half pint of water. Pick and wash the cranberries, and peel and slice the apples thinly. Put the three kinds of fruit into a lined stewpan with the water and stew them slowly fox- half an hour. Then add the sugar and stew for half an hour longer, breaking down the cranberries with the back of a wooden spoon. Pour the fruit into a pie dish just large enough to hold it, remove the stones from the prunes and let the mixture cool. Then cover with short crust and bake as directed above. Time to bake, 4 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4d. Fruit Puddings See under Hot Puddings, p. 402. VARIOUS TARTS AND FLANS 1528. Open Jam Tart Pastry. Jam. Almost any kind of pastry may be used for this. Short crust or puff pastry is perhaps the best. An open tart may be made in two different ways— (1) The pastry case made and baked and the jam put into it afterwards; or (2) The jam baked with the pastry. (1) Roll out the pastry rather thinly. Wet a flat dish or tin with cold water and leave it wet. Lay the pastry over this, press well into the shape of the dish, and trim round the edges with a knife. Roll out the trimmings of pastry, and cut a band long enough and wide enough to cover the rim of the dish. Wet the edges of the pastry lining the dish, lay this band round, make the two ends meet exactly and not overlap, and wet the join with cold water. Now mark round the rim with the back of a knife or snip it with a pair of scissors, and flute round the edges with a knife. Prick the pastry lining the bottom of the tart with a fork, lay over it a piece of slightly greased paper, and put in some crusts of bread, or a few haricot beans, to prevent its rising and losing shape in the baking. Bake the tart in a good oven until well cooked and