COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 242 SWEETBREADS AND HOW TO PREPARE THEM Sweetbreads are considered the most delicate part of the calf, and are great favourites for entries. They are exceedingly light and easily digested, and much less stimulating than other meat. For these reasons they are frequently ordered for invalids. There are two different kinds, called popularly the heart and the throat sweetbreads. The former is the more appreciated of the two ; it is broad and flat in shape and white and firm in texture. It is generally chosen for larding or for any other method where the sweetbread is to be served whole. The throat sweetbread is much longer in shape and often Heart and Throat Sweetbreads very membranous, not so light in colour as the other, but very good for dishes where it can be broken in pieces. Sweetbreads, to be good, must be properly pre- pared, and this is not difficult, only it requires some care. To begin with they must be very fresh, and they must be prepared in the following manner as soon as they come from the butcher’s. On no account must they be put aside until this has been done. First wash the sweetbreads and soak them in cold water for an hour or two, changing the water once or twice. Then put them into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, add a few drops of lemon juice, bring very slowly to boiling point, and boil 5 minutes. Throw the sweetbreads again into cold water, and with the fingers remove all veins, fat, and membranous parts, that will come away easily without destroying the shape. They can now be either pressed until cold, or used at once as directed. If pressed, put them between two plates with a light weight on the top. Do not crush them. 977. Fried Sweetbreads (Ris de Veau Frit) 1 sweetbread. Bread-crumbs. Beaten egg. Seasoning. 1 table-sp. salad oil. Prepare and blanch the sweetbread as directed above, then put it into a stewpan with enough light stock to cover it, and simmer gently for | hour. When nearly tender, lift it up and press between two plates until cold. Then cut it in neat pieces or slices, and season them with pepper, salt, and a little grated lemon rind or juice. Add the salad oil to the beaten egg, and egg and bread- crumb the sweetbread. Fry in boiling fat to a golden brown colour and drain well. Serve gar- nished with cut lemon and parsley. Tomato, piquante, or any other suitable sauce may be served separately. Notes.—A more elaborate way of preparing this dish is to coat the pieces of sweetbread before bread-crumbing them with some tasty potted meat, or to coat them with some stiff bechamel or espagnol sauce. The sweetbread may be dished on a puree of spinach, potato, or chestnut. Frying batter may be used in place of the bread crumbs. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 978. Sweetbread “ en Casserole ” (Ris de Veau en Casserole) 1 pr. calf’s sweetbreads. White stock. A small bunch of herbs. 1 onion. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. cornflour. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. Seasoning. Prepare the sweetbreads as directed above, and after pressing, cut or break them in neat pieces. Put them into an earthenware casserole with white stock to cover them, an onion cut in pieces, and a small bunch of herbs. Cover with the lid and simmer slowly until the sweetbreads are tender. Then lift them out, and make a sauce with the butter, cornflour, and strained stock. Return the sweetbread without the herbs and onion,and simmer a few minutes longer. Season to taste and add the cream at the last. Serve in the casserole. Time to cook, £ hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. PART V PORK AND HAM 979. Pork, To Pickle Pork for pickling must be freshly killed. Almost any part may be pickled, but the cuts most usually chosen are the hand or shoulder and the belly or spring, as these are too fat to be cooked and eaten fresh. A pickled leg of pork is also very good. Cut the pork in convenient-sized joints, wipe it well, and be careful to remove all kernels and pipes. Then rub well with coarse salt, let it stand over- night, and drain off the brine. Next day put the meat into a large basin or pickling-trough and cover it with pickle made as directed in Recipe 861. Place a. board or weight on the top to prevent the pork floating, and allow it to remain trom 10 to 14 days, according to the degree of saltness desired and the size and thickness of the cut. Pork may also be pickled according to the dry method (Recipe 863). Pickled pork is considered more wholesome and more digestible than fresh pork. See also General Directions for Pickling. 980. Boiled Salt Pork and Pease Pudding Choose a nice piece of pickled or salted pork, wash it and put it into a saucepan with tepid water to cover it. Bring slowly to the boil, skim well,