BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 567 and use these to bind the mixture together, keeping it very stiff. Roll out rather thinly, and cut in rounds about 3 inches in diameter. Bake these slowly on a greased and floured tin until brown and crisp. When ready, lift them off and let them cool. Then place them two together with a layer of coffee icing between. Coat the top and sides with another layer of the icing, and then sprinkle them with icing sugar. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2706. Lemon Cakes 1J oz. biscuit crumbs. 1 oz. rice flour. 1 oz. flour. J lb. butter. 3 oz. castor sugar. Rind of 1 lemon. 3 eggs. 2 oz. candied lemon peel. Lemon glace icing. | lb. flour. J lb. castor sugar. 2 or 3 oz. butter. 1 1 large lemon. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little milk. Cream the butter, and add the sugar with the grated rind of the lemon. Then add the egg and the strained lemon juice. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and stir them lightly into the other ingredients. Use a little milk if neces- sary to make a stiffish dough. Turn the dough on to a floured baking board, and divide it into small equal-sized pieces. Roll each piece out quickly with the hands, and twist into the shape of the letter <£ S.” Bake the jumbles on a greased tin in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. 2708. Louise Cakes 3 oz. flour. 4 oz. sugar. 3 oz. rice flour. 3 eggs. 4 oz. butter. Flavouring to taste. Cream the butter, and add the sugar and a little flavouring. Then add the eggs and the two kinds of flour by degrees. Beat the mixture well, and bake in small greased and floured tins until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—These little cakes may be iced if wished. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 10 d. 2709. Lump Cakes 1 egg. J lb. flour. | lb. butter. | lb. sugar. | tea-sp. carbonate of soda. egg well beaten and mix together. Sieve the flour and soda, and add them gradually to the other mixture. Have ready a flat tin, greased and floured, and arrange the mixture on it in small lumps, keeping them a little distance apart. Bake in a quick oven from 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 7d. Madeleines 2 eggs. Vanilla flavouring. Put the butter into a slightly warmed basin and beat it to a cream. Grate only the yellow rind off the lemon, and rub it into the sugar; then work this into the butter. Add the flour, rice flour, and biscuit-crumbs (ratafia crumbs are best), alter- nately with the eggs, and beat all well together. Add the candied peel, finely chopped, at the last. Half fill small prepared moulds (see p. 550) with the mixture; and bake in a good oven until well risen and brown. When ready, turn out and cool on a sieve or wire cake stand. Coat the cakes with lemon glace icing, and decorate with small strips of angelica and small silver balls or dragees, or any other suitable decoration. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2707. Lemon Jumbles 2710. 2 oz. fresh butter. Jr lb. fine flour. \ lb. castor sugar. Put the butter into a slightly warmed basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until of a soft and creamy consistency. Add the sugar, sifted, and beat again for a few minutes. Now add the yolks of the eggs, one at a time, along with a little of the flour, and lastly add the remainder of the flour Put the butter into a basin and warm it in the oven, or before the fire. Add the sugar and the Madeleine Moulds along with the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mix very lightly, and do not beat again. Half fill madeleine moulds that have been prepared according to directions given on p. 550 with this mixture, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. These little cakes may be iced with glace icing if wished. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Probable cost, 6d. 2711. Othello Shells To Make the Cases 3 oz. castor sugar. 3 oz. Vienna flour. 5 eggs. Put half the sugar into a basin, and add the yolks one at a time, beating them well in with a whisk. Be sure to cream the yolks and sugar well together, and keep the mixture moving all the time. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and stir into them the remainder of the sugar. Then add the creamed yolks and flour to the whites, and mix very lightly with a spoon, turning the mixture over and over. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with a pipe the size of a sixpenny piece at the end of it, and force out on a tin lined with paper, but not greased. Make different shapes according to taste, such as half apricot, a half pear, the section of an orange, &c. Bake in a quick oven until quite dry and brown. Note.—These cases or shells are really better if they can be made the day before they are wanted. In an air-tight tin box they will keep good for some time, and will be in readiness for using in different ways.