SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES 205 Mutton Breast'. . . Chops . . . ,, trimmed Haunch . . Per lb. 4jd. Is. Is. 2d. 10)d. 10id. to lid. 105d. to Is. Id. Neck, best end ,, scragend Saddle . . . Shoulder . . Suet . . . Kidneys . . Per lb. 10jd. to Is. fid. to 8d. 10£d. to Hid. Sid. to 9d. 5d. 4d. each Lamb The price of lamb varies very much according to the season; the hind-quarter may cost from Is. per lb. and upwards, and the fore-quarter from lid. per lb. and upwards. Veal Breast . Cutlet . Fillet . Knuckle Per lb. 9d. Is. 3d. Is. 2d. Od. to 8d. Leg . . . Loin. . . Neck . . Shoulder . Per lb. Is. lOd. to Is. lOd. to Is. 8 id. Pork Leg (fresh) Loin „ Salted pork Pork chops Per lb. 9d. to lOci. Pig’s fry . . 9d. to lid. Pig’s head 8d. to 9d. Sucking pig . Is. Id. Per lb. 6d. id. 6s. to 10s. each SOME PRELIMINARIES Preparation of Meat for Cooking All meat should be carefully wiped with a damp cloth before cooking, as one never knows where it may have been lying nor what hands have touched it. Some people go the length of washing the meat, but this is apt to spoil the flavour, especially in the small cut portions. If, however, there is any sign of taint about the meat, it should be washed in vinegar and water, or in a weak solution of Condy’s fluid and water, and then wiped dry. This will help to restore the meat to its original freshness. Meat must also be carefully trimmed before cooking, all discoloured pieces being removed, and the skin also in some cases. It is also sometimes more economical to cut away all superfluous fat before cooking, as this can be rendered down and utilised more profitably in this way. To Thaw Meat Frozen meat must always be thawed before cooking. The simplest way to do this is to allow the meat to stand in a warm kitchen for several hours before using it. Some cooks soak it in warm water; but this plan is not to be recommended, as it is apt to draw some of the goodness out of the meat, and also to make it flabby and sodden. Frozen meat must be cooked at once after thawing, otherwise it will not keep. Boning This operation is not really difficult; a little practice is all that is required. The boning of a joint of meat is of course much easier than the boning of a fowl or other bird, but even this latter can be accomplished without much trouble by anyone who is skilful with their fingers. There are several advantages to be gained by boning a joint. To begin with, the bones themselves can be much more profitably used for making soup or stock; then a neater-looking joint is generally obtained, and one that is more easily carved; and again, if some savoury stuffing is put in to take the place of the bone, it makes a nice change from the ordinary plain joint. The best way to learn boning is to watch it being done by a butcher or some skilled person, but even without this the art can soon be acquired. Some knowledge of the shape and position of the bones is essential, but it is only necessary to bone a joint once to learn this. It is a good plan to begin with something small, even a mutton chop. In fact, a boned chop is by no means to be despised. When the bone is removed the meat can be shaped into a very neat round, and, fixed with a tiny skewer, it will look quite a tasty morsel. Ribs of beef is another very easy joint to bone. Use a short pointed knife for boning, and one that bends easily. When a joint has to be boned, the bones should not be jointed nor broken, and they must be removed in a way that will disfigure the meat as little as possible. Keep the knife pressing against the bone all the time, cutting the flesh away from it gradually, and being careful that the knife does not slip and make cuts in the skin. Aim at bringing away the bone as bare as possible by following any irregularities with the knife. When a joint is reached, crack it, cut the sinews, and draw that piece of bone out. With some joints, such as the ribs of beef or a loin of mutton, the leaving of a little flesh between the bones is unavoidable, but this can be removed afterwards and either used up along with any other scraps for a mince or stew, or put inside and rolled up with the larger joint of meat. Besides the bones, any part that is uneatable, such as gristle or super- fluous fat, should be removed from the meat. In some cases, such as a breast of veal or ribs of beef, the meat is flattened out and then rolled, with sometimes a savoury stuffing put inside; in others, such as a shoulder or leg of mutton, the joint is kept in its original shape, the cavity left by the removal of the bone being filled with stuffing. The meat is then bound round with tape, or sewed up with a needle and fine string, to keep it in shape. The bones when they are removed can be used for making stock, which will serve to make a good gravy for the meat, or they can be used for making soup. (For the boning of special joints see under separate headings.) Larding Running strips of fat bacon through meat by means of a special needle is what is known as larding. It is generally done on a dry piece of meat, such as veal, fillet of beef, liver, hare, venison, the breast of game and poultry, &c. By this means fat is introduced into an otherwise lean piece of meat, and the appearance of the article is improved at the same time. The needle used is called a larding needle (Fr. lardoire). It consists of a tube of fine metal, pointed at one end like a needle, and slit at the other end in several divisions instead of having an eye. The strip of bacon is put into the slit end, and the portions of metal pressing against it while it