227 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES leaving only about 1 table-spoonful. Put the flour into this and brown it well without allowing it to burn. Pour in the stock or water and stir until boiling. Add pepper, salt, and ketchup or Wor- cester sauce, and skim if necessary. Now return the browned meat with the onions cut in slices, the carrot and turnip in dice, and the bunch of herbs. Put the lid on the saucepan and stew the contents slowly until the meat and vegetables are tender. To serve, arrange the pieces of meat neatly in the middle of a hot dish, remove all grease from the top of the sauce, strain it over, and place the vegetables round the sides. Note.—A more artistic method of serving haricot mutton is to cut out some fancy shapes of carrot and turnip, to cook them separately and use them as a garnish. The trimmings may be cooked with the stew to give flavour and strained out before serving. Time to stew, 1 \ to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 8d. to 2s. 901. Mutton “ en Casserole ’* 1 to 1 \ lbs. mutton. 1 cupful vegetables. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. J pt. light stock. Cut a good slice from a well-hung leg of mutton, wipe it and trim off the skin and any superfluous fat. Grease the bottom of an earthenware casserole and put in a bed of vegetables, such as carrot, turnip, onion, and celery, cut in small pieces. Lay the meat on the top, sprinkle with parsley, pepper and salt, and pour the stock over. Put on the lid and bake in a good oven until the meat is quite tender. Baste the meat occasionally with the stock, and if necessary add more during the cooking. Serve in the casserole or on a hot dish, the meat in the centre, with the vegetables and gravy round. Time to cook, about 2 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. to Is. 6d. 902. Irish Stew (Ragofit & l’lrlandaise) 2 lbs. neck or breast of mutton. 3 lbs. potatoes. 1 to l| lbs. onions. Warm water. Salt. Pepper. Chopped parsley. Wipe the meat and cut it in neat pieces, remov- ing all skin and superfluous fat. There is no occa- sion to remove all the fat from the meat, as the potatoes will absorb a certain amount. Put the meat into a stewpan, season it well with pepper and salt and cover it -with warm water. Bring to boiling point and carefully remove all scum. Pre- pare the potatoes and onions, slice the onions thinly, and cut half the potatoes in slices and the other half in halves or quarters, according to size. If the strong flavour of the onion is feared, they should be scalded before being added to the stew (see p. 152). When the meat is quite free from scum put in the sliced onion and potato, with more pepper and salt. Put the lid on the pan and simmer slowly from 1 to 1J hours or until the meat is tender. Half an hour before the stew is ready put in the Eieces of potato, as these should only be cooked, ut not broken. Shake the saucepan occasionally while the stew is cooking, but remove the lid as seldom as possible. If the liquid dries up, a little more water may be added, but do not make the stew watery. When ready, arrange it neatly on a hot dish with the pieces of potato round, and sprinkle with some finely-chopped parsley. Note.—Other vegetables may be added if de- sired, and a dessert-spoonful of ketchup or Wor- cester sauce poured in at the last is considered by some an improvement. Time to cook, about 1| hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 903. Mutton Stew with Tomatoes 2 or 3 tomatoes. 2 pts. water or meat boilings. 1 cupful parboiled rice. 2 lbs. lean mutton. 1J oz. butter. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. Salt. Pepper. The meat must be as free from fat as possible, wipe it with a damp cloth, cut it in pieces about 1£ inches square, and season them with pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Now add the meat and stir and cook about \ hour. Pour in the water or meat boilings and add the tomatoes, wiped and cut in small pieces. Put the lid on the saucepan and stew slowly about 1 hour. Then add the rice and cook about \ hour longer. Arrange the stew neatly on a hot dish and sprinkle with a little finely-chopped parsley. Note.—If there are any bones with the mutton, cook them with the stew and lift them out before serving. Time to cook, 1J hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 904. Mutton with Turnips (Navarin de Mouton) 1J to 2 lbs. mutton. 1 oz. flour. | pt. stock or hot water. 1 onion. Salt. Pepper. A small bunch of herbs. 2 lbs. turnips. A little butter. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A piece of shoulder or neck of mutton may be used for this dish, but it should not be too fat. Wipe it and cut it in neat pieces, removing the skin and any superfluous fat. Then brown the pieces of meat in a stewpan, using either some of the trimmings of fat or a little butter. Sprinkle the flour over and brown that also. Now pour in the stock or hot water, stir until boding, and skim if necessary. Add pepper and salt, the onion chopped, or a clove of garlic, and bunch of herbs. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly for 1 hour. Meanwhile prepare the turnips and cut them in large dice or small thickish slices. Fry them in another stewpan or frying pan with a little butter, and sprinkle them lightly with sugar. When a golden brown colour lift them out, add them to the meat, and cook all together for \ an hour longer. Serve the pieces of meat neatly on a hot dish, remove all grease from the sauce, strain it over, and garnish with the turnips. Note.—A small piece of glaze may be added to the sauce if it is not a very good colour. Time to stew, 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to 2s.