117 FISH into flakes. Grease a pie dish, and put in half the fish, seasoning with pepper, salt, a little grated lemon rind and lemon juice. Next put in half the macaroni and half the sauce, then the re- mainder of the fish, more seasoning, and the rest of the macaroni and sauce. Sprinkle the bread- crumbs over the top, and place the butter on in small pieces. Wipe round the edges of the pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes if the fish is cooked, or half an hour if uncooked fish is used. Brown the pie nicely on the top, and serve hot, garnished with sprigs of parsley. Notes.—A few oysters, picked shrimps, or hard- boiled egg, cut in slices, may be added to this pie, or a little grated cheese may be mixed with the white sauce or sprinkled over the top with the bread-crumbs. One or two skinned and sliced tomatoes also make a nice addition. Time to bake, 15 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 351. Fish Pie with Potatoes, 1 | lb. cooked fish. | lb. cooked potatoes. 2 oz. dripping or butter. Pepper and salt. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Grated lemon rind. A little milk. Chop the fish finely, carefully removing all bones and skin, and sieve the potatoes or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, put in the fish and potatoes, and season with pepper, salt, anchovy essence, and a little grated lemon rind. A pinch of nutmeg or mace may also be added. Mix well together, and moisten with a little milk. Grease a pie dish and put the mixture into it. Smooth over the surface with a knife, keeping it well raised in the centre. Then mark it prettily with a knife or fork, and brush over with milk or beaten egg. Bake in the oven until nicely browned. Wipe the edges of the dish quite clean before serving, and serve very hot, garnished with parsley. Note.—If there are any remains of fish sauce this may be used to moisten the mixture instead of some of the milk and butter. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 352. Fish Pie with Potatoes, 2 J lb. cooked fish. 1 gill white sauce. 1 hard-boiled egg. Lemon juice. Pepper and salt. | lb. cooked potato. 1 oz. butter or dripping. A little milk. Break the fish into flakes, and put it into a greased pie dish. Sprinkle with white pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Then pour over it the white sauce, if there are any remains of fish sauce a fresh supply will not require to be made. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, have the potatoes sieved, and add them to it. Season with white pepper and salt, and moisten with a little milk. Pile this on the top of the fish in the pie dish, and smooth over with a knife. Mark up the sides with a fork or the point of a knife, and brush over with milk or beaten egg. Bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 353. Fish Pie with Rice J lb. cooked fish. | lb. whole rice. 1 gill water. 1 oz. butter. 2 oz. grated cheese. \ pt. milk. Pepper and salt. Wash the rice, put it in a saucepan with 1 gill of water, and simmer until the water is absorbed. Then pour in the milk and cook again until the rice is quite soft. Chop the fish finely, carefully removing all skin and bone, add it to the rice in the saucepan along with the butter, seasoning, and half the cheese. Mix well together and pour into a greased pie dish. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the top, and bake in the oven until nicely browned. Serve hot. Notes.—The cheese may be omitted if objected to. A whole beaten egg may be added to the mixture before it is poured into the pie dish. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. ' 354. Fish Pie a la Russe 1 lb. cooked fish. \ pt. white sauce. 2 hard-boiled eggs. 2 tea-cupfuls boiled rice. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. anchovy essence. 1 tea-sp. chopped capers. Salt. Remove all skin and bone from the fish, and break it into flakes with two forks. Add the anchovy essence and chopped capers to the white sauce, and cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices. Boil the rice as for curry (Recipe 1586), and make it very dry. Then grease a pie dish or flreproof dish, and put in first a layer of fish, then some rice, moistening with a little ef the sauce, then a layer of the sliced egg, and repeat these layers until the dish is full, finishing with the sliced egg. Season with more salt if necessary, put the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 355. Steamed Fish Pudding 1 lb. cooked fish. 2 oz. bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter, 1 gill milk. 1 egg. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Pepper and salt. Anchovy or parsley sauce. First grease a plain mould or basin, or several small moulds, with clarified butter, and sprinkle the chopped parsley over the inside. Free the fish from all skin and bone, and chop it finely. Put it into a basin with the bread-crumbs, pepper, salt, and anchovy essence. Put the milk and butter into a small saucepan, bring them to the boil, and then pour over the ingredients in the basin. Let these soak for a few minutes, then add the egg well beaten. Mix together, and pour into the pre- pared mould or moulds. Cover over with greased paper and steam from 10 to 15 minutes if in small moulds, and for half an hour if done in one large mould. When ready, the mixture should be firm to the touch. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with anchovy or parsley sauce poured round (see Recipes for Sauces). Time to steam, 10 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons.