399 PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 1748. Canary Pudding 2 eggs—their weight Grated lemon rind. in butter, flour, and h tea-sp. baking powder. castor sugar. To Make the Mixture.—Put the butter into a slightly warm basin and beat it with a wooden spoon until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top, add the rind of one large lemon grated, and mix them well in. Then add one egg with half the flour (sieved) and beat well, then the other egg with the remainder of the flour and beat again. When the mixture looks light and full of air- bubbles, add the baking powder free from lumps. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pudding mould or basin, cover with greased paper, and steam steadily the required time. Turn out when ready and pour round it a good custard sauce flavoured with lemon. The pudding should look as yellow as possible. Note.—The above mixture may be made up in a variety of ways by adding different flavourings and altering the form of mould. It may be baked as well as steamed. See also Cup, Chocolate, Ginger, Raspberry, Russian, and West Riding Puddings. Time to steam, 1| hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or 8d. without sauce. 1749. Caramel Custard (Creme Renversfie a la Vanille) Caramel. 3 oz. loaf sugar. $ gill cold water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Custard. 2 yolks and 2 whole eggs. \ pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Vanilla flavouring. _ A pinch of salt. Put the ingredients for the caramel into a small saucepan, and let them cook until they are a light coffee colour. Watch the caramel carefully, as it is apt to burn. When ready, pour it into a plain dry souffle mould, which has straight sides and a flat top, and turn the mould round and round until the caramel coats it uniformly. It is a good plan to warm the mould first. Allow this to become cold whilst making the custard. Put the eggs into a basin with the sugar, flavouring, and a pinch of salt, and mix them to a cream with a wooden spoon. Heat the milk, and pour it slowly on to the egg mixture, stirring all the time. Strain the custard into the prepared mould and cover with greased paper. Steam very slowly until the custard feels firm in the centre ; or bake in a moderate oven with some warm water round the mould. Stand a few minutes before turning out and serve hot or cold. The pudding will have a glaze of caramel over the top, and some will run round the sides and serve as a sauce. Time to steam, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. 1750. Chocolate Caramel Custard (Creme RenversGe au Chocolat) Make in the same way as Caramel Custard (see above), adding 2 oz. of melted chocolate to the milk. 1751. Coffee Caramel Custard (Cr£me Renvers6e au Moka) Make in the same way as Caramel Custard, flavouring the milk with essence of coffee, or using some black coffee along with the milk to make the custard. 1752. Caramel Rice Pudding 2 oz. Carolina rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. Flavouring. Sugar to taste. Caramel. 2 to 3 oz. loaf sugar. 2 table-sps. water. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wash the rice in several waters. Put it into a double saucepan with the milk and butter, and cook it until all the milk is absorbed and the rice itself is quite soft. Beat the eggs and add them to the rice with sugar and flavouring to taste. Make the caramel and line a plain pint mould with it as in Recipe 1749. When cold and set, pour in the rice mixture, cover with greased paper and steam slowly until the eggs are set and the pudding feels firm to the touch. Turn out carefully, allow- ing the caramel to run round the pudding as a sauce. Note.—This pudding is also very good served cold. Time, 1£ to 2 hours in all. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 0>d. or Id. 1753. Caramel Semolina Pudding 2 oz. semolina. Caramel. 1 pt. milk. 2 eggs. Same as above. Sugar and flavouring to taste. Rinse out a small saucepan with cold water, and put into it the semolina and the milk. Stir these over the fire until boiling, then simmer from 10 to 15 minutes until the semolina is quite cooked and the mixture thick. A little butter may be added if liked. Remove the saucepan from the fire, and add the sugar, flavouring to taste, and the two eggs well beaten. Mix well. Make the caramel as in Recipe 1749, and run it over the sides of a 1| pint mould or basin. When cool, fill up with the semolina mixture, cover with greased paper, and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Stand a few minutes before turning out, and serve either hot or cold. Note.—This pudding may be varied by adding a little cocoanut, preserved ginger, or other fruit to the semolina when it is cooked. The pudding may be baked instead of steamed. Time, about 1 hour in all. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Qd. or 7d. 1754. Carrot Pudding | lb. bread-crumbs. 6 oz. suet. \ lb. stoned raisins. I lb. currants. | lb. carrots. 3 oz. sugar. 3 eggs. Grated nutmeg. A little milk. First boil the carrots until tender, then drain them and mash them to a pulp. Add to them all the dry ingredients carefully prepared, then moisten with the eggs well beaten and a little milk.