552 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD prevent their sticking to the fingers. These raisins are usually cut in small pieces or chopped roughly. To Prepare Candied Peel.—Remove the hard sugar from the inside, and with a sharp knife shred the peel very finely. The strips may be left any length desired, but as candied peel at the best is an indigestible article, it should never be cut in thick chunks. If the peel is too hard to shred easily, it may be soaked for a few minutes in boding water. To Prepare Angelica.—Prepare in the same way as candied peel. It generally requires soaking in hot water before cutting, especially if it has to be cut thinly. To Prepare Glace Fruits.—Glace fruits, such as cherries, apricots, pineapple, &c., should have the hard sugar removed from them first by soaking them for a minute in hot water. Then dry the pieces lightly, cut them to the size required, and roll them in flour. Note.—All fruit should be mixed with a little dry flour (taken from the quantity given in the recipe) before being added to the cake mixture. To Prepare Almonds.—Blanch these by throw- ing them into a small saucepan of boiling water and allowing them to remain a minute or two, or just long enough to soften the skins. Then strain, remove the skins with the fingers, and throw the nuts as they are done into a basin of cold water to rinse them and preserve the colour. When ready, dry the nuts in a cloth, and afterwards in the oven, being careful they do not take colour. Almonds are usually shred or chopped before being used, or for decorative purposes they are some- times split in halves broadwise. Pistachio Nuts.—Treat in the same way as almonds. Lemon Rind and Juice.—When the rind of a lemon is required for flavouring it must be re- moved very thinly. The yellow part only must be taken and none of the white, which is bitter in flavour. The rind may either be grated off the lemon or peeled off very thinly with a knife. The grated rind is very often rubbed into castor sugar in order to draw out the flavour. The peeled rind should be chopped very finely if it is to be left in a mixture. To obtain the juice of a lemon, first roll it back- wards and forwards on the table to soften it. Then cut it in halves, and squeeze out the juice with the back of a wooden spoon or on a lemon squeezer. Strain before using. Orange Rind and Juice.—Prepare in the same way as lemon rind and juice. ABOUT YEAST Yeast is a minute plant or vegetable germ of the fungi family, which has the power of fermenting bread and making it rise. It only requires warmth, moisture, and a suitable soil to start its growth, and it finds this in the bread dough, or a mixture of flour and warm liquid. During its growth it causes certain chemical changes to take place in the flour, by which carbonic acid gas is given off, and it is this gas which causes the bread to rise. It is very important to have the yeast good. The German or Compressed Yeast is, perhaps, the simplest kind to use, and with it bread can be quickly and easily made, and very satisfactory results obtained. It can be" bought for Id. per ounce from most bakers or sent by post if necessary. Care must be taken to procure it fresh and sweet, as it quickly spoils, especially in close and muggy weather. When good and fresh, German yeast should have a pleasant smell and be of a light greyish colour, very like putty. It should be moist to the touch without being sticky, and crumble easily between the fingers. If it has brown spots it should be discarded. Another proof of freshness is when the yeast creams easily or becomes a smooth creamy liquid when a small quantity of sugar or salt is mixed with it. Brewers' Yeast or “ barm ” is a liquid form of yeast, and used to be the only kind obtainable. It can be very good, but it is more uncertain in its results, and is sometimes inclined to have a bitter taste. About 2 table-spoonfuls of brewers’ yeast will equal 1 ounce of the compressed yeast. The liquid that is added to yeast, whether it be milk, water, or a mixture of the two, should be of a lukewarm temperature, as this will be most favourable to its growth. If too hot it will kill or destroy the yeast, and if too cold the process of rising will not be so rapid. About 98° Fahr. is the best temperature, but if no thermometer is at hand a simple test is to put the little finger into the liquid; if it feels uncomfortably hot for the finger to rest in it, it is too warm. Another means of getting the right heat is to use one part of boiling liquid to two parts cold. EXPLANATION OF VARIOUS TERMS USED IN CAKE-MAKING To Ruib Butter into Flour.—Sieve the flour into a dry basin. Place the butter on the top of the flour, cover it over, and break it in small pieces. Then rub the two together lightly with the tips of the fingers and thumbs until they are as fine as bread-crumbs. While rubbing, keep lifting the flour well up in the basin to allow the air to mix with it and prevent the butter becoming soft. Unless this operation is well carried out the cake will look streaky. To Cream Butter and Sugar.—The butter should be creamed first and then the sugar added.