238 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD in a slow oven until cooked. When ready, the veal should feel quite tender when it is tested with a skewer. If necessary, fill up the mould with a little more stock, and set aside to cool. When Veal and Ham Mould wanted, turn out on a dish and garnish with parsley or some fresh salad. Note.—Rabbit may be prepared in the same way. Time to cook, 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Is. 10d. 956. Veal Olives (Paupiettes de Veau) If lbs. fillet of veal. A little butter. 4 pt. stock. Farce. 3 oz. cooked meat. 1 tea - sp. chopped onion or shallot. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. 4 oz. butter. Pepper Salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 yolk of egg. Cut the veal in strips about 3 inches wide and 4 or 5 inches in length. Beat them out with a heavy spoon or cutlet bat, in order to break the fibres of the meat, and make them tender. Put a little of the farce or stuffing given below on each strip of meat and roll them up. Tie them round with strong cotton, and place them in a shallow stewpan in which has been melted a little butter. Turn the veal olives over and over until they are nicely browned on all sides, then put on the lid and cook slowly by the side of the fire for a few minutes. Now add the stock, or half wine and half stock may be used, and continue the cooking until the meat is quite tender. Then lift out the little rolls of meat, remove the strings, arrange them neatly on a dish, and pour the liquid, which should be well reduced and freed from all grease, over them. Sprinkle with parsley and serve either hot or cold. If hot, a few rolls of bacon may be used as a garnish, and a puree of potatoes or spinach served separately. If cold, serve with celery or green salad. To Make the Farce.—Almost any kind of cooked meat may be used for this—veal, chicken, beef, or game—along with a little ham. Mutton is not so good, as the flavour is too pronounced. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, put in the chopped onion and cook it for a few minutes. When lightly browned, add the parsley, the meat finely chopped, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. A few chopped mushrooms may also be added if at hand. Bind all together with the yolk of egg and flour, or with a spoonful of any good sauce. Turn the mixture on to a plate and let it cool. Notes.—Sometimes the veal olives are wrapped in a thin slice of bacon before they are tied up, and when cooked served on a fried crouton of bread of a suitable shape and size. They have then the appearance of a small bird without a head, and on a French menu would appear as Oiseaux sans Tete. If preferred, a thickened sauce may be served with the veal olives. It should be added to the gravy in the pan, boiled for a few minutes, and then strained. This of course would only be suitable if the dish is being served hot. Time to cook, 14 to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. to 3s. 957. Mock Sweetbreads | lb. lean veal. 2 oz. suet or bacon fat. 4 cup bread-crumbs. | cup milk or cream. 1 egg- Pepper and salt. Rind of | lemon. A pinch of nutmeg. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1 oz. butter. 1 tea-cupful light stock. Chop the veal and fat finely and mix them to- gether. Heat the milk or cream, add to it the | cupful of bread-crumbs, and let them stand by the side of the fire until well soaked. Then add them to the minced meat, season with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and the grated rind of | lemon. Bind with a beaten egg and mix well together. Now divide the mixture into eight or nine equal- sized pieces, form them into balls, using a little flour and egg, and bread-crumb them. Melt the 1 oz. of butter in a small baking tin when smoking hot, put in the mock sweetbreads and brown them on all sides (or they may be plunged into a sauce- pan of deep fat to brown), then pour round tho light stock, cover over and cook in the oven, bast- ing now and again with the stock. Serve on a hot dish and garnish with rolls of bacon or thin slices of lemon. A little sauce, white, brown, or tomato, should be served separately. Time to bake, 1 hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 10d. 95S. Calf’s Brains, To Prepare Calf’s brains to be good must be very fresh, and in whatever manner they are to be served, they must first be blanched and prepared thus : First wash the brains in cold water with a little salt, removing the loose skin and any clots of blood, then allow them to soak in fresh cold water for an hour at least, changing the water once or twice during this time. When thoroughly cleansed, put the brains into a lined saucepan with cold water to cover them, add salt, a small bunch of herbs, and enough vinegar or lemon juice to make the water distinctly acid. Bring to the boil, skim if necessary, boil slowly from 10 to 12 minutes and then strain. Drain the brains on a hair sieve or in the folds of a clean cloth, and they will be ready to use in various ways. 959. Call’s Brains with Black Butter, 1 (Cervelles de Veau au Beurre Noir) 2 calves’ brains. 1| oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 1 dessert-sp. capers. 1 tea-sp.chopped parsley Salt. Pepper. Prepare the brains as in last recipe, and either cut them in pieces or leave them whole. Melt the