582 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Then put some more icing into a forcing bag with Is. 3d. consistency. Then whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them very lightly in, alternately with a little flour, turning the mixture over and over, and as delicately as possible. When all is blended, pour the mixture into the prepared tin, place it on a bed of salt or sand on a baking tin, and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. As soon as the top is brown, the cake ought to be covered with paper to prevent its taking too deep a colour. Allow the cake to stand for 5 minutes after removing it from the oven, then turn it out on a sieve and let it cool gradually. Then ice the cake as below: To Ice the Cake.—Prepare some Mocha icing (Recipe 2846), and keep it on ice or in a very cool place until it is required. Split the cake once or twice according to height, spread each piece with a layer of the icing, and put the cake back into shape. Then with a spatula or broad-bladed knife spread the top, and, if wished, the sides of the cake with the icing. Put the remainder into a forcing Forcing Bag and Fancy Pipes bag with a rather large fancy-shaped pipe at the end of it, and force out pretty patterns on the top of the cake. A few crystallised violets or pistachio nuts may be used as an ornamentation, or any sweet that will make a pretty contrast in colour to the brown icing. Allow the cake to stand in a cool place for an hour or two before cutting, so as to harden the icing. Note.—Sometimes this cake is coated with coffee glace icing, and the coffee butter icing piped on the top. Time to bake, about i hour. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 2801. Another Way, 2 2 oz. castor sugar. About 2 oz. Vienna flour. 1 oz. butter. 2 eggs. Crystallised sugar. Mocha icing. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin, and cream them together. Then whip the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix them very lightly with the yolks and sugar, along with the flour finely sifted. Melt the butter, and pour it in last of all. Pour the mixture into a round flat mould that has been greased and dusted with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. When ready, turn out and allow the cake to cool. Then split it once or twice, spread with Mocha icing, and put the pieces together again. Turn the cake so that the bottom is uppermost, and coat it all over with a layer of the icing, and sprinkle with crystallised sugar. a fancy pipe, and force it out on the top of the cake in a pretty design. Other decorations, such as pistachios, violets, angelica, &c., may be added according to taste. Time to cook, 25 minutes. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 2802. Nellie’s Ginger Cake £ lb. flour. £ lb. brown sugar. | lb. butter. | lb. treacle or syrup. 1 dessert-sp. ground ginger. 2 eggs. 3 or 4 oz. preserved ginger. 2 oz. shelled walnuts. 1 tea-sp. carbonate of soda. 2 table-sps. warm milk. Put the butter, sugar, and treacle into a basin, and place them near the fire or in a cool oven until just warm. Then beat all together for a few minutes. Beat up the eggs, and add them gradually with the flour. When thoroughly mixed and well beaten, add the soda dissolved in the warm milk, and lastly the preserved ginger cut in small pieces and the walnuts chopped roughly. Pour the mixture into a greased and papered cake tin, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Time to bake, § to 1 hour. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2803. Nut Cake 2 oz. sugar. 1J oz. butter. About 2 oz. flour. 1 oz. ground nuts. 3 yolks and 1 white of egg- (Gateau de Noisettes) Cream for Filling. 2 yolks of egg. 2 oz. sugar. | tea-cupful milk. 1 tea-cupful essence of coffee. 2 oz. fresh butter. Decoration.—Coffee glace icing, shred almonds, &c. To Prepare the Nuts.—Take the amount of shelled Barcelona nuts required, toast them a minute or two in the oven or under the grill, rub them in a cloth to remove the skins, and then put them through the nut mill, or chop them finely with a knife. Make the Cake Mixture in the same way as directed for Gateau Mocha (see above), adding the ground nuts at the last. When ready, pour it into a round or square tin that has been greased, and dusted out with flour. Bake in a moderate oven until brown and firm to the touch. Turn out when ready and let it cool. Cream for Filling.—Make a thick custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk, flavour with a little coffee essence, and let it cool. Then slightly melt the butter, and beat it to a cream. Add the ground nuts and the coffee custard very gradually, keeping back a little if the mixture is found to be too sweet. Allow this mixture to stand a short time before using. Ter Finish the Cake.—Split it in two, and spread it thickly with the above cream. Place the pieces together again, spread the sides with some of the cream, and coat them with shred and browned almonds. Make a little coffee glac6 (Recipe 2840), and coat the top of the cake. Garnish the edge with a little of the cream put through a forcing bag, and decorate with a few nuts, pieces of angelica, or any other decoration preferred. Time to bake, 25 to 30 minutes. Probable cost,