COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 530 away from the chicken through a fine strainer or hair sieve. This is just the pure juice or essence of chicken, and, like essence of beef, should only be given in small quantities in extreme cases. When cold, it will be a jelly. Time to cook, 6 to 7 hours. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. 2505. Chicken Jelly 1 chicken, or part of one. I A few parsley stalks. Cold water. 1 bay leaf. I A pinch of salt. The inferior joints will do very well for chicken jelly; the breast can be used for some other pur- pose. Cut the chicken into joints, and cut all the flesh from the bones. Wash any part that does not look perfectly clean, and keep back any fat. Cut the flesh into small pieces, and chop up the bones. The neck and gizzard may also be washed, and used in the jelly, but not the liver, as it is too dark in colour. Put all into a lined saucepan with a little salt, and cover with cold water ; bring to the boil, and skim well. Add the bay leaf and parsley stalks, and simmer slowly for from 3 to 4 hours. Keep it well skimmed, and add more water if it boils down too much. When ready, strain through a hair sieve, and stand till cold. Remove all fat from the top, first with a spoon dipped in hot water, and then with a cloth dipped in boiling water. This may now be served as it is, or it may be cleared. To clear the stock, put it into a clean lined saucepan, with the white of egg, and the shell washed and crushed up. Put the pan on the fire, and finish in exactly the same way as calf’s foot jelly (Recipe 1969). Notes.—More vegetable flavourings can be used in the making of the jelly if wished. Clearing the jelly with white of egg, while.making it more at- tractive looking, rather impoverishes it. Instead of white of egg, J lb. lean, juicy beef may be shred down and used in its place, in exactly the same way. The albumen in the beef clears in the same way as white of egg. It will, of course, make the jelly a little stronger in flavour. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, 8d. per gill. 2506. Chicken Soup 1 chicken. I 1 dessert-sp. salt. 2 or 3 pts. cold water. ( 1 gill cream. Draw and clean the chicken thoroughly, cut it into joints and, if wished, keep back the breast for serving in some other way. Cut up the flesh in small pieces, and break the bones. Wash any pieces which do not look perfectly clean, and keep back any soft fat. Remove the gall-bag from the liver and the bag of stone from the gizzard, and wash these well, also the neck and the heart. Put all together into a clean lined pan, with enough cold water to well cover—from 2 to 3 pints ; add a little salt, and bring slowly to the boil. Then skim well, and simmer slowly about 5 or 6 hours. Take off any scum that may rise, and boil down to about half the quantity. When cooked sufficiently, strain through a fine strainer or hair sieve, and let it stand till cold. Remove all the fat from the top of the stock. Take some of the pieces of meat from the chicken, pound them well in the mortar, and then rub through a wire sieve, using some of the liquid to moisten it while rubbing through. Add this meat puree to the soup as a thickening. Warm up as much as will be required at one time, and add one table-spoonful of cream to each cup- ful of soup. A yolk of egg may also be used if liked. Beat up the yolk in the cup or basin, and pour the hot soup on to it, stirring all the time. The addition of a little celery seed and a small ham bone will improve the flavour of this soup, should the condition of the invalid allow of it. The breast of the chicken may be cooked in the soup, and then lifted out, cut into small meat pieces, and served in the soup when ready. Time to cook, 5 to 6 hours. Probable cost, 3s. 2507. Cream of Barley 1J lbs. knuckle of veal. 2 oz. pearl barley. 3 pts. cold water. 1 tea-sp. salt. 1 yolk of egg. J gill of cream. Wash the barley well, and, if possible, soak it overnight in cold water. Then blanch it, i.e. put it into a saucepan with enough cold water to well cover it, bring to the boil, pour the water away, and rinse the barley. This makes the barley a very much better colour. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, cut it into very small pieces away from the bone, and put it into a saucepan with the water, salt, and blanched barley. Bring slowly to the boil, and skim well. Simmer slowly 3 to 4 hours until the barley is perfectly soft. Then strain through a hair or fine wire sieve. Put the meat and barley into a mortar, pound well, and then rub a good deal of the mixture through a wire sieve, using some of the liquid to moisten it whilst rubbing through. Return the liquid and the sieved mixture to the saucepan, and re-heat over the fire. Beat the yolk of egg and cream together; draw the pan to the side of the fire, so that the soup may be off the boil, and strain this thickening into it, stirring all the time. Do not boil again. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, Is. 3d. 2508. Fish Soup 1 lb. white fish. 1 pt. cold water. 1 gill milk. \ oz. butter. | oz. flour. A little chopped parsley. Salt to taste. Almost any white fish may be used for this, but haddock, whiting, or plaice are among the most suitable. Wash the fish carefully, and cut it in pieces without removing the skin. Put these into a lined saucepan with the water and salt, and bring slowly to the boil, removing all scum as it rises. Cook for a few minutes until the fish loses its trans- parent appearance, then lift out a few neat pieces, free from skin and bone, and put them to one side, for serving in the soup. Allow the remainder to cook slowly until all the goodness is drawn from the fish—about 1 hour—then strain through a fine sieve or strainer. Clean the saucepan in order to remove all scum, and put in the butter. Allow this to melt, and stir in the flour until smooth. Add the fish liquor and milk, and stir until boiling. Then add the pieces of fish that were reserved, and the chopped parsley, cook two minutes longer and serve very hot. Notes.—A more savoury soup may be made by cooking small pieces of vegetable along with the fish, but this is not so simple for an invalid. The ■