COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 160 bunch of herbs. Stir until boiling, simmer for a few minutes and pour over the potatoes. Serve very hot. Time to cook, £ to § hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 556. Stewed Potatoes (Pommes de Terre au Jus) 4 or 5 potatoes. 2 oz. beef dripping. 1 large onion. J pt. stock. Salt, pepper. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. Prepare the potatoes and cut them in quarters or small pieces. Skin, scald, and slice the onion very thinly. Then melt the dripping in a stew- pan, put in the onion and potatoes and season with pepper and salt. Put the lid on the pan and cook the contents for a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Then pour in the stock and continue cooking until the potato is cooked, but not broken. Add the chopped parsley at the last and serve very hot. Time to stew, 15 to 20 minutes. Sufficient for 2 or 3 persons. 557. Baked Potato Souffl&s (Souffles de Pommes de Terre) 4 or 5 potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 3 table-sps. milk. 1 egg. Salt, pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. Parmesan cheese. Choose medium-sized and evenly-shaped potatoes. Wash and scrub them well and bake them in their skins according to directions given in Recipe 535. When ready, cut a piece ofi each with a sharp knife and scoop out all the inside, being careful not to damage the skins. Put the butter and milk into a saucepan and let them heat over the fire, sieve the potato and add it to them. Then season to taste with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nut- Baked Potato Souffles meg, and beat well until perfectly smooth. Now remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the yolk of egg and lastly the white beaten to a stiff froth. Refill the potato skins with this mixture and sprinkle the tops with grated Par- mesan. Place the souffles on a baking tin and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and lightly browned. Dish them on a folded serviette or dish paper and serve at once. Notes.—A little grated cheese may also be added to the mixture. The mixture may be baked in a souffle dish instead of the potato skins, making one large soufflA Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons, 558. Stuffed Potatoes (Pommes de Terre Farcies) 4 or 5 potatoes. 3 or 4 table-sps. cooked meat. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley. 2 table-sps.sauce or cream. Seasoning. A little butter. A few bread-crumbs. Choose potatoes of equal size and of a good shape. Scrub them clean and bake in a moder- ate oven until soft (see Recipe 535). Then cut a piece from the end of each and with a tea-spoon scoop out the insides without damaging the skins. Mash or sieve this pulp and put it into a basin. Add to it the meat finely chopped (it must be nice tasty meat such as beef and tongue, ham and chicken, &c.), the seasoning and parsley. Bind all together with some good sauce, cream, or beaten egg. Refill the skins with this mixture, piling it rather high in the centre. Sprinkle a few bread- crumbs over and put a small piece of butter on the top of each. Return the potatoes to the oven and bake them until thoroughly hot. Dish them on a folded serviette and garnish with a few sprigs of parsley. Note.—Grated cheese or finely shred fish may be used instead of meat. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 559. Stuffed Potatoes au Gratin (Pommes de Terre Farcies Gratinees) ■ C potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. Pepper, salt. \ tea-cupful milk or cream. A pinch of nutmeg. A few bread-crumbs. Choose good sound potatoes of medium size and regular in shape. Wash and brush them and cook them in the oven (see Recipe 535). When ready, make a round hole on the side of each with the Eoint of a knife and scoop out all the centre without reaking the skin. Rub this pulp through a sieve, then put it into a saucepan with the butter, milk, or cream, and seasoning. Beat over the fire for several minutes until white and light-looking, then add most of the cheese grated very finely. Fill the potato skins with this mixture, piling it high in the centre. Arrange them on a baking tin, sprinkle them with the remainder of the cheese, mixed with a few bread-crumbs; place a small piece of butter on the top of each and bake in a good oven until nicely browned. Serve the potatoes very hot on a dish paper or serviette. Note.—When the potatoes are very large they may be cut in two after baking. The quantity of milk or cream must be somewhat regulated accord- ing to the size of the potatoes, the mixture must not be made too moist. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 560. Pommes de Terre Soufflees This is another form of fried potatoes, but one which is somewhat difficult to prepare, and with which an English cook is not usually successful. Pommes de Terre Soufflees are, however, well worth the care and “trouble they entail. The potatoes are fried in such a way that they puff out and look like little golden balls or eggs hollow in the centre. Success depends to a large extent upon the kind of potato used and also upon the cutting. Choose white, waxy potatoes. Dutch potatoes are