317 EGG DISHES AND OMELETS minutes until the onion begins to take colour. Then add the curry powder, rice flour, chutney, pepper, and salt, and cook a few minutes longer. Pour in the stock and stir until boiling. Allow this sauce to cook slowly from 15 to 20 minutes, then add two of the eggs cut in small pieces, the Curried Eggs cream or cocoanut milk (see Index), and a squeeze of lemon juice. When quite hot, put this mixture in the centre of a dish, and put a border of boiled rice round. Then cut the other two eggs in six pieces lengthwise, cut a small piece from the end of each, and stand them round the dish between the curry and the rice. Probable cost, Is. 1327. Fricassee of Eggs (Fricassee d’CEufs) 4 hard-boiled eggs, i pt. white sauce. 1 tea - sp. chopped parsley. Rolls of bacon. Croutons of fried bread. Remove the shells from the hard-boiled eggs and cut them in slices, not too thin. Prepare \ pint of good white sauce, put the eggs into it, and let them heat through. Season to taste, and then dish neatly. Sprinkle the chopped parsley over, and garnish with small rolls of bacon (Recipe 1646) and croutons of fried bread. Notes.—The bacon may be omitted. Other sauces may be used in place of the white sauce. Eggs are very good fricasseed in brown sauce with the addition of a few chopped mushrooms, or in tomato sauce with a border of potatoes round them. Probable cost, 10d. 1328. Golden Eggs 4 or 5 hard-boiled eggs. | pt. white sauce. 5 or 6 pieces hot but- tered toast. A little potted meat. Seasoning. Prepare | pint of good white sauce, keeping it rather thick. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in halve s and separate the yolks from the whites. Chop the whites, add them to the sauce, and season to taste with white pepper and salt. Spread the hot buttered toast with any nice potted meat, and arrange it neatly on a dish. Pour the sauce with the whites of eggs over, rub the yolks through a wire sieve, and sprinkle them thickly over the top. Put the dish in the oven to make all thoroughly hot, and then serve. Probable cost, la. 1329. Eggs a la Momay, with Cheese (CEufs a la Mornay) 4 hard-boiled eggs, i pt. bechamel or white sauce. Seasoning. 2 oz. grated Parmesan. A little butter. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and arrange them neatly in a fireproof dish. Prepare J pint of very good white sauce, season it rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard, and add to it half the cheese. Pour this sauce over the eggs, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese oven the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and brown in a quick oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Probable cost, lOd. 1330. Egg and Potato Pie 4 hard-boiled eggs. J lb. cooked potato. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 table-sps. milk. 1 dessert - sp. chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. 1 tea-cupful white sauce. Sieve the potatoes and heat them in a saucepan with the butter, parsley, and a little milk. Season to taste, and mix until perfectly smooth and light. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and have ready one tea-cupful of good white sauce. Grease a pie dish and put into it a layer of the prepared potato. Next put in the eggs and pour the sauce over. Allow this to stand a short time, and then put the remainder of the potato on the top. Smooth over and mark neatly with the point of a knife. Brush over with a little egg or milk, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Note.—A little grated cheese may be mixed with the potato if liked. Probable cost, lOd. 1331. Eggs a la Tripe (CEufs a la Tripe) \ doz. eggs. 2 medium-sized onions. 1 table-sp. flour. 1 oz. butter. 1J gills stock. Salt. Pepper. A little made mus- tard. 1 glass white wine. 1 tea-sp. vinegar. Bread-crumbs or grated cheese. Skin and scald the onions and cut them in thin slices. Melt the butter in a saucepan. When hot, put in the onions, and let them cook slowly until they become brown, but not burnt. Then add the flour, let it cook for a few minutes, and pour in the stock. Stir until boiling, season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of nutmeg, and a little made mustard. Add also one glass of wine and one tea-spoonful vinegar, and simmer slowly until the onions are cooked. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices, and pile them up on a fireproof dish. Pour the onion sauce over them, sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs or grated cheese, lay a few small pieces of butter on the top, and brown quickly in the oven. Note.—The wine may be omitted. Probable cost. Is. 2d. 1332. Eggs with Spaghetti | lb. spaghetti. 1 oz. butter. A pinch of nutmeg. Seasoning. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. grated cheese. 1 gill white sauce. Cook the spaghetti in boiling water until tender, drain it well, and toss it in the butter. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Cut the hard-boiled egg in’ slices, and prepare a gill of good white sauce. Then grease a fireproof dish, and arrange the spaghetti and eggs in it in layers. Sprinkle over half the grated cheese, pour the sauce