BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES 585 2815. Scotch Bun 2 lbs. flour. 6 oz. butter. 6 oz. sugar. Dough. 2 tea-cupfuls of cold milk. — 1 oz. yeast. A pinch of salt. 1| lb. above dough. 1 oz. mixed spice. $ tea-cupful treacle. 2 lbs. currants. 1 lb. sultanas. Inside of Bun. | lb. candied orange peel. \ lb. sweet almonds. 2 eggs. Cover.—1 lb. 2 oz. of above dough. First prepare the dough. Sieve the flour and sugar into a basin, and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Cream the yeast in a small basin with the salt, and pour in the milk. Strain this into the centre of the flour, &c., and work all to- gether with the hand, adding a little more milk if necessary. The dough should be rather soft. When it is well kneaded, put it in a clean dry bowl, cover it with a thick cloth, and leave it in a warm kitchen overnight. Next day prepare the centre of the bun. Take 1J lb. of the dough, and put it into a basin. Mix the spice with the treacle, and add them to the dough with the eggs well beaten, the almonds blanched, but not cut, the currants and sultanas picked and cleaned, and the orange peel finely shred. Mix all well together in a basin, and then knead on the baking board until very stiff. Mould the mixture with a little flour in a 7-inch hoop, and leave it for a short time. Cover.—Take 1 lb. 2 oz. of the dough, and knead it well on the board, using extra flour if too soft. Then take three parts of this dough, and roll it. into a round. Lift the inside part of the bun on to this, and draw the dough up the sides to reach the top. Brush the edges with beaten egg, and roll out the remainder of the dough for the top. Press the top round on, and make it very neat. Turn the bun upside down in an 8-inch hoop, and prick it all over with a fork, making a few holes go right through to the foot. Brush over with egg, and bake in a good moderate oven. Just before removing the bun from the oven, brush it over with a little gelatine dissolved in water with a lump of sugar. Note.—If there is any dough not required for the bun, it may be made up in small buns (see Recipe 2724). The above quantities will make a 6-lb. bun. Time to bake, about 2 hours. Probable cost, 3s. 6d. 2816. Scotch Seed Cake J lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. 14 oz. flour. 6 eggs. | lb. candied peel. I lb. sweet almonds. 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A little grated lemon rind. Some sugar caraways. Shred the candied peel finely, and blanch and chop the almonds. Mix them with about 1 table- spoonful of the flour, or just sufficient to prevent them clotting together, and then make the cake mixture. Put the butter into a large basin and beat it until light and creamy. Sieve the sugar on the top and mix well together. Add the eggs, one at a time, with a little flour, and beat well until very light. Then mix in the fruit, baking powder, and a little grated lemon rind or other flavouring. Pour into a papered cake tin and put some sugar caraways on the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, 2 to 2| hours. Probable cost, 2s. 2817. Seed | lb. flour. 3 oz. clarified dripping. 3 oz. sugar. 1 dessert-sp. caraway seeds. Cake (Plain) 1 tea-sp. baking powder. A pinch of salt. 1 or 2 eggs. A little milk. Put the flour and salt into a basin, and rub in the dripping with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then add the sugar, caraway seeds, and baking powder, mix well together, and make a well in the centre. Beat up the egg or eggs until light and frothy, add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls milk, and pour this liquid into the centre of the dry ingredi- ents. Mix all quickly and lightly, adding a little more milk if necessary. The mixture should be of a consistency that will drop easily from the spoon. Put all into a well-greased and papered Yorkshire pudding tin, and bake in a good oven until well risen, nicely browned, and firm to the touch. Time to bake, about | hour. Probable cost, Qd. \ lb. flour. I lb. sugar. 6 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. caraway seeds. 2818. Seed Cake (Good) 3 eggs. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 1 or 2 oz. orange peel. Make in the same way as German Pound Cake (Recipe 2781). Probable cost, Is. 2819. Shamrock Cake l lb. flour (Vienna). | lb. butter. | lb. castor sugar. 3 small eggs. Rind of \ lemon. Vienna or butter icir Decoration. Pale green glace icing. j Silver dragees. Artificial shamrock. | Wafer biscuits. Cream the butter very thoroughly with the lemon rind finely chopped, then add the sugar and work it well in. Add one egg with a little of the flour, and beat for a few minutes, then another egg and more flour, and so on until all the eggs and flour are added. Sprinkle in the baking powder last of all. Bake the mixture in a flattish tin lined with greased paper, and dusted out with flour and sugar mixed. A square or oval shape looks nice, or else an ordinary round tin that is not too deep. Bake in a moderate oven until well risen and nicely browned. When ready, turn out of the tin and allow the cake to cool. To Finish.—Split the cake in two or three ac- cording to its height, spread each piece with Vienna icing that has been flavoured with essence of almonds or some liqueur, and coloured a very pale green, and then put the cake back into shape. Coat the top with very pale green glace icing (Recipe 2838), and decorate with small sprigs of artificial shamrock and little silver balls. Then take some small wafer biscuits just the height of the cake and arrange them round the sides. Tie