STOCKS AND SOUPS 43 in 1 gill of stock and the wine and reduce this until it becomes a glaze. Then add the rest of the stock, the vegetables cut in pieces, ham bone, and the bunch of herbs. Stir well for a few minutes and then simmer slowly from 3 to 4 hours, skimming when necessary. Strain through a hair sieve and stand until cold. Next day remove all fat from the top of the stock and put it into a saucepan to heat. Brown the flour and mix it to a smooth paste with a little of the stock, add this to the remainder of the stock in the pan and stir over the fire until boiling. Add the lemon juice, a dash of cayenne, and more seasoning if necessary. If not perfectly smooth, sieve again, and tammy before serving. A garnish of cooked vegetables cut in fancy shapes may be added if liked. Notes.—If no stock is available for making the soup, water may be used and £ lb. of lean juicy beef cut up and used along with the giblets. The wine may be omitted. Time to cook, 4 hours. Cost uncertain. Quan- tity, 2 pints. 10. Gravy Soup 1 lb. lean juicy beef. 1 07.. butter or dripping. 2 or 3 cloves. 6 peppercorns. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. salt. 21 pts. cold water. (Potage au Jus) A small piece each of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. 1 table-sp. mushroom ketchup. 1 dessert-sp. crushed tapioca. A piece of beef from the round or shoulder is suitable for making this soup ; it ought to be freshly cut and juicy. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth and, shred it down with a sharp knife, keeping back all fat and skin. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, but do not let it brown. Put in the meat with the seasonings and the vegetables cut in small pieces. Pound these with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the juice is well extracted from the meat. Then add the water gradually and simmer gently 1£ to 2 hours, stirring occasionally and skimming when required. When sufficiently cooked, strain through a sieve and remove any grease from the top of the stock. Rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it; bring to the boil and sprinkle in the tapioca, stirring all the time. Cook until this is quite transparent, and add the ketchup and other seasoning to taste. Some of the vegetables may be cut in small fancy shapes and added to the soup. Note.—If the liquid reduces much in the cooking, more water must be added. Time to cook, about 3 hours. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. Quantity, about 2 pints. 11. Hare Soup, Economical (Potage de Lievre) Remains of cooked hare. Second stock. A small quantity of car- rot, turnip, and onion. A little red currant jelly. A bunch of herbs. Rind of £ lemon. 1 oz. butter or bacon fat. A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 oz. flour. Seasoning. Pick the best part of the meat from the bones, pound it in a mortar with a little stock and rub it through a wire sieve. Break up the bones and put them into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover them. Bring to the boil and skim well. Then add the flavouring vegetables, lemon rind, and spices, and simmer all together about 2 hours. Strain through a fine sieve and remove any fat from the top. Melt the butter or bacon fat in a saucepan and let it brown, sprinkle in the flour and brown that also. Then pour on the stock and stir until boiling. Add the pur£e of hare, the red currant jelly, and flavourings, and cook a few minutes longer. See that the soup is nicely seasoned and serve with toast cut in dice. Notes.—Forcemeat balls (Recipe 1288) served in the soup would be an improvement. A little port vine may be added if wished. 12. Hotch Potch 2 qts. mutton broth. Equal quantities of young carrots, tur- nips, and spring onions. 1 lettuce. 1 cauliflower. 1 pt. green peas. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. 1£ lbs. lamb or small mutton chops. Pepper and salt. Put the mutton broth, or water in which some mutton has been boiled, into a saucepan, and bring it to the boil. Clean some young carrots, turnips, and onions; cut the carrots and turnips into very small neat pieces, and the onions into thin slices. About one teacupful of each will be required. Put them into the saucepan with the broth, and boil quickly for half an hour. Trim the chops neatly, removing most of the fat; add them next with the flower of the cauliflower, broken into small pieces, the green peas, and the lettuce, finely shred. Simmer the soup slowly for half an hour longer, or until meat and vegetables are tender. Add the parsley last, and season with pepper and salt. Notes.—The success of this soup depends on having the vegetables young and fresh. The kind of vegetable used may be varied according to what is obtainable. Time to cook, about If hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, about 3 pints. 13, Kidney Soup (Potage de Rognons) 1 ox kidney. 2 qts. well-flavoured stock. 1 onion. 1 £ oz. butter or dripping. A bunch of herbs. Salt to taste. 6 cloves. 20 black peppercorns. A blade of mace. I tea-sp. celery seed. 1 oz. flour. 1 table-sp. ketchup. Wash the kidney, dry it well, and cut it in small pieces, removing all the fat. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the pieces of kidney and onion cut in thin slices. Fry these in the fat until nicely browned. Pour in the stock and stir well for a few minutes. Add a little salt, and when boiling skim thoroughly. Then put in the herbs and the spices and celery seed tied in a small piece of muslin, and simmer all slowly from 3 to 4 horns, or until the kidney is tender. Care must be taken to skim the soup when necessary. When ready, strain through a fine wire or hair sieve, and if possible let it stand until cold. Remove all fat from the top of the soup and return it to the saucepan to reheat. Rinse the pieces of kidney with a little hot water and add them to it. Then mix the flour to a smooth paste with the ketchup