605 SWEET MAKING then dropped in small lumps on wax paper, and allowed to set. PART IV 2900. Chocolate Pralines \ lb. castor sugar. I Lemon juice. 6 oz. sweet almonds. | Covering chocolate. Wipe the almonds in a damp cloth to clean them, but do not blanch them. Then dry them in a slow oven until they are slightly browned all the way through. Put the sugar into a saucepan with a few drops of lemon juice and melt it carefully over the fire until there are no lumps left, and the sugar itself looks brown and clear. Keep pounding down the lumps with a spoon or fork, and remove the saucepan from the fire occasionally, if the sugar shows signs of browning too quickly. When ready, pour it out on a well-greased tin, and scrape out the saucepan with a spoon. This should be quite brittle when cold, and snap clean when it is broken. Put this crisp toffee into a mortar with the almonds, and pound the two together until the mixture is very fine and clings together in one lump. When required, form into small round balls with the hands, or in any other shape preferred, and coat at once with chocolate. They lose their shape if allowed to stand. Note.—If a larger quantity of the praline centre is required, the toffee part should be made in differ- ent lots of 8 oz. each, as it is not easy to melt more than this quantity at a time. 2901. Chocolate Drops Prepare some chocolate the same as for covering (Recipe 2881). Put a small quantity at a time of this chocolate into a paper cornet, close it securely at the top, and cut a piece off the end in order to make a small opening. Then force out little lumps on a bright and clean tin, making them as far as possible one size and shape. Shake the tin to flatten them slightly, and then leave the chocolates to set. When cold, tap the tin, and the drops will become detached. Note.—If liked, the drops may be sprinkled with some nonpareils (tiny white and coloured sweets) before the chocolate has set. 2902. Chocolate and Nut Kisses £ lb. covering chocolate. 4 to 6 oz. shelled nuts. Toast the nuts for a few minutes in the oven, then pound or chop them, but not too finely. Use good covering chocolate, or chocolate prepared as in Recipe 2881, and melt it carefully in a saucepan without making it too hot. When quite smooth, add the prepared nuts, walnuts are perhaps the best, and there should be sufficient to thicken the choco- late. Drop the mixture in small rough heaps on greased paper, and leave them until set. If liked, the kisses may be decorated, before they have time to harden, with a slice of pistachio nut, or a small crystallised violet or rose leaf. 2903. Chocolate Peppermint Creams Make some peppermint creams as directed on p. 601, keeping them rather small. When quite cold and set, cover them with coating chocolate in the ordinary way. TOFFEES, CANDIES, AND CARAMELS 2904. Almond Hardbake 1 lb. Demerara sugar. £ lb. butter. 6 to 8 oz. sweet almonds. 3 table-sps. water. A good pinch cream of tartar, or 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. First blanch the almonds, shred them with a knife, and dry them in a cool oven until they are a pale brown colour. Turn them over once or twice so as to make them dry and brown equally. When these are ready, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the water and sugar, and melt over the fire, stirring occasionally. Then add the cream of tartar or lemon juice, and allow the contents of the saucepan to boil steadily without stirring until they become a rich brown colour, or to about 280° F. Stir in the almonds, cook them a moment, and pour the mixture into a greased tin. It should be quite a dark brown colour, and not the usual golden colour of toffee. When cold, break in pieces, and store in an air-tight tin box. 2905. Almond or Walnut Toffee 2 lbs. granulated sugar. 6 oz. butter. 1J gills water. A pinch cream of tartar. 6 oz. almonds or wal- nuts. If almonds are used, blanch and split them, then dry them in the oven, and arrange them with the flat side downwards on a greased tin. If walnuts are preferred, use those that are already shelled, toast them a few minutes in the oven, and then spread them out on a greased tin. To make the toffee, melt the butter in a saucepan, add the sugar, water, and cream of tartar, bring to the boil, and then boil without stirring to 300° F., or until the toffee breaks brittle when tested in cold water. Pour over the nuts and leave to set. Then break in pieces as required. 2906. American Candy 1 lb. loaf sugar. 3 oz. butter. 1 gill water. Flavouring. £ lb. glucose. Put the sugar, water, and glucose into a saucepan, and melt them slowly over the fire. Then boil with the thermometer to 290° F. Add the butter broken in pieces, and boil again to 305°. Pour the mixture out on a greased slab; add flavouring to taste. Fold over and over with a wooden spoon or spatula, and, when sufficiently cooled, work well with the hands, and pull out into a long roll until it begins to stiffen. Then cut in pieces with a pair of scissors, and wrap in wax paper. Note.—A little colouring may be added to the candy if desired. 2907. Barcelona Toffee 1 lb. granulated sugar. 1 gill water. 1 dessert-sp. vinegar. 1 oz. butter. 6 oz. Barcelona nuts. A pinch of salt. 1 tea-sp. vanilla. Put all the ingredients except the nuts into a saucepan, stir until dissolved, and then boil to