SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES The term meat is, commonly speaking, applied only to beef, mutton, lamb, and veal, and it is in this sense that it is dealt with in the following pages ; game and poultry, including rabbits and venison, being treated in a separate chapter. The proper cooking of meat is all-important in bringing out its nutritive qualities. Nothing perhaps is more injurious to the digestion than meat that is badly cooked, and nothing is more wasteful either. Good cooking will make almost any meat tender, while bad cooking can render the best of meat tough and uneatable. Different pieces of meat require somewhat different methods of treatment in order to bring about the best results, but the object aimed at must always be, to retain the juice and to make the meat itself tender and well flavoured at the same time. The following directions in regard to the choice, preparation, and cooking of this important article of diet have been given as clearly and concisely as possible, and it is hoped that the housewife who follows them carefully will find it difficult to go astray in this extensive branch of the culinary art. PART I CHOICE, PREPARATION, AND COOKING OF MEAT HINTS ON CHOOSING MEAT General Hints.—It is very important to buy meat from a good butcher, and one who can be thoroughly trusted. It may not be convenient to call per- sonally at the shop each time meat is required, but it is a good plan to do so occasionally, and to select carefully the joint or cut that is wanted. Always insist upon getting the piece suited to your needs, and the butcher will very soon get into the way of serving you properly. There are certain signs by which the quality of the meat can generally be judged. The texture should be firm and moderately elastic, and, when pressed, should not leave the imprint of the finger. If the flesh is flabby and moist and has an un- pleasant odour, it is not good. The lean part should be finely grained, and the fat, which should not be in any undue proportion, should be free from kernels, brown spots, and streaks of blood. The meat of animals that have died a natural death or by accident should be avoided. Good meat does not waste much in cooking, and when left on a dish the juice should not exude from it in any quantity. Besides these general points to be remembered, each special kind of meat has its individual charac- teristics by which it can be judged. Beef.—The best beef is taken from an ox about two years old. It is of a nice red colour, almost a cherry red, and the lean has a marbled appearance, being slightly intergrained with fat. The fat is a pale yellow colour, not mottled, and the suet hard and dry. It is fine and smooth in texture, with rather an open grain. There should be little or no gristle between the fat and the lean, as this generally indicates that it is the flesh of an old animal. Beef of a dark colour with very yellow fat should be avoided. Beef is more nourishing and strengthening than mutton, but not so easy of digestion. Ox beef is better than cow beef, and generally fetches a higher price. Bull beef is very coarse, and is never sold by a good butcher. Beef should be well hung before it is used, to make it tender; the time it should hang will depend upon the weather, and it should never be allowed to become high. Mutton.—The best mutton is plump and small- boned. The quality depends very much upon where the animal has been reared. Those fed on the mountains or on the downs are generally con- sidered the best, whilo the flesh of those fed on the salt marshes near the sea-coast is peculiarly delicate in flavour. This latter is the pre-sale of the French. Age also has a good deal to do with the quality of the mutton. From four to six years old is the best age for killing; a farmer, however, can rarely afford to keep his sheep so long, and they are gener- ally killed between two and three years of age. The lean of mutton is not so red in colour as beef, but has a darker and browner hue. In fact, when mutton has been well hung the cut surface acquires almost a dark purple colour. The flesh should be firm, close in texture, and not inter- grained with fat like beef. The fat should be hard and very white and waxy. Mutton, like beef, should be well hung. Lamb is paler in colour than mutton, and the fat is pearly white. When fresh, the veins in the neck end of the fore-quarter have a bluish tinge, and when stale these develop a greenish hue. In the hind-quarter the kidneys should be examined ; if they are flabby, with an unpleasant smell, the meat is stale. A piece of the caul, a thin transparent- looking membrane, should be sent with each joint of lamb to wrap round it and protect it when cooking. A lamb of four or five months old is considered the best.