394 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 1723. Ground Rice Pudding Make in the same way as Semolina Pudding (see below). 1724. Rusk Pudding 4 or 5 rusks. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. J tea-cupful sultanas. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 eggs. Grated nutmeg. Butter the rusks, and clean and pick the sultanas. Grease a pie dish and lay the rusks in it, sprinkling them with the sugar and sultanas. Beat up one or two eggs, add the milk, and strain over the rusks, &c. Grate a little nutmeg on the top, wipe round the edges of the dish, and stand for half an hour. Then place the pudding in a baking tin with a little water round it, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot. Note.—The sultanas may be omitted and currants or 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls marmalade or jam used in their place. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Qd. 1725. Sago Pudding (without Eggs) If, table-sps. sago. | Grated rind \ lemon. 1 pt. milk. A pinch of spice. 1 oz. butter. | 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. Wash the sago and put it at the bottom of a greased pie dish. Sprinkle it with the sugar, grated lemon rind, and a good pinch of spice, and put in the butter broken in small pieces. Pour the milk over, wipe the rim of the pie dish, and bake the pudding in a slow oven. The sago should be stirred up once or twice towards the beginning of the baking. Note.—If large sago is used it is a good plan to soak it for an hour or two before making the pudding. Time to bake, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. until brown and set. When ready, sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—To make a little variety, some stewed fruit, such as apples, may be put at the bottom of the pie dish before pouring in the semolina. Time, £ hour in all. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1728. Steamed Semolina Pudding Make in the same way as Caramel Semolina Pudding (Recipe 1753). The caramel may be omitted if a simpler pudding is wanted and the basin well greased before pouring in the mixture. 1729. Tapioca Pudding 2 table-sps. tapioca. 1 pt. milk. \ pt. water. A pinch of salt. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 table-sp. sugar. Flavouring. Put the tapioca into a basin with the water. Cover it over, and if time permits let it soak one hour. Then rinse out a lined saucepan with cold water, and turn the tapioca into it. Add the milk, bring slow]}7 to the boil over the fire, and then simmer until the tapioca turns quite clear, stirring occa- sionally. The time required will vary according to the kind of tapioca used. If it becomes too thick whilst cooking, add a little more milk. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire and stir in the sugar, yolks of eggs, and flavouring. Lastly, add the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and set. Sprinkle with sugar and serve at once. Note.—Fine tapioca may be cooked in the same way as semolina, and soaking will not be necessary. Time to cook, J to 1 hour after soaking. Suffi- cient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 1730. Another Way (without Eggs) Soak the tapioca as above, then proceed accord- ing to directions given for Rice Pudding without Eggs (Recipe 1716). 1726. Sago Pudding (with Eggs) Make according to directions given for Tapioca Pudding. 1727. Semolina Pudding (Baked) 2 oz. semolina. 1J pts. milk. A pinch of salt. 1 table-sp. sugar. A little flavouring. 1 or 2 eggs. Put the milk into a lined saucepan that has been rinsed out with cold water and heat it over the fire without bringing it to the boil. Put the semo- lina into a piece of paper, and sprinkle it slowly into the hot milk with one hand whilst stirring with a spoon with the other. Then simmer slowly until the semolina swells and thickens the milk. Add sugar and a little flavouring. Remove the sauce- pan from the fire and, when the contents have cooled a little, stir in the yolks of eggs, and lastly the whites, which have been beaten to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pie dish, and bake in a moderate oven 1731. Vermicelli Pudding Make in the same way as Macaroni Pudding (see Recipe 1714), omitting the preliminary boiling in water. The vermicelli should be slightly crushed, but not broken too small. PART II BOILED AND STEAMED PUDDINGS SOME PRELIMINARIES To Chop Suet.—When suet is used in a pudding, it should be hard and dry. Any suet, if good, can be used, although beef suet is generally pre- ferred. Mutton suet, however, makes the lightest puddings, while veal suet is the most delicate. Remove all skin and fibre from it, put it on a chop- ping board and shred it finely with a knife. Dust it over generously with flour (taken from the quantity required for the pudding), and then chop