659 THE ART OP CARVING smaller portion ia served to the ladies. If there ia more than one dish to choose from, the portions should be made equal and rather small in size. Never ask a guest, before beginning to carve, to make a choice between two difierent dishes, but help the dishes first, and then make the inquiry, otherwise they might feel that it was being cut into solely for them. The following notes on the carving of some of the principal joints indicate the general method adopted, but these rules need not be hard and fast, clever carvers very soon acquire their own style. BEEF Sirloin of Beef.—This joint should be placed with the back bone, or thickest end, at the left-hand side of the dish. Although it is usual to carve the undercut first, as this is one of the primest cuts when hot, the joint is served with this piece under- neath, and the carver raises it and turns it over. The undercut should be cut across in fairly thick slices, and a small portion of fat served with each. The upper part should be carved in long thin slices parallel with the ribs. The shoes should be as thin as possible without being ragged. Insert the knife between the bone and the meat, and run it along from end to end to detach the slices. Ribs of Beef.—The joint should be placed with the thickest end at the left-hand side of the carver. Commence by inserting the knife between the bone and the meat, and running it along from end to end of the joint. This enables the slices to be easily detached. Then cut long thin slices the whole length of the joint, in the same way as the upper part of the sirloin. Round of Beef or Rolled Ribs.—A thin-bladed and very sharp knife is required for this. First cut rather a thick slice ofi the outside to make the top surface even, and then continue cutting thin slices right across the joint. Ox Tongue.—As the centre is the choicest portion, the tongue should be cut nearly through, 3 or 4 inches from the top, and thin slices cut from both ends. A small piece of the fat, which lies near the root, might be served with each portion. MUTTON AND LAMB Leg of Mutton.—Place this joint on the dish with the thickest part lying towards the outside of the dish, and the small end to the left. The carving is not difficult, and it is always done in the same way. Insert the fork in the thickest part, and raise the joint slightly towards you. Then cut several slices of medium thickness through the thickest part and right down to the bone B to A. Next slip the knife along underneath the slices, and detach them from the rest. Some prefer a piece from the upper end, and others one nearer the knuckle, as the meat is usually better done towards the thin end. One of the tastiest morsels lies quite close to the knuckle or lower joint. A small piece of fat which lies underneath the thick end should be served with each portion. When the thick side of the meat is finished, slices should bo cut from the other side in the same way. Loin of Mutton and Lamb.—This cut should be thoroughly well jointed by the butcher, or it will be found most difficult to carve. It will be well also to examine it before cooking, and, if necessary, joint any part that has been forgotten. Place the joint on the dish with the thick part towards the