SWEET MAKING 599 thick cream, and heat it to a lukewarm tempera- ture. If made too hot the glossy appearance will be destroyed. When ready, remove the fondant from the heat, and tilt the pan up on the table. Dip in the fondant centres one at a time, coat them well with the fondant, and lift out with a dipping Dipping Fork fork, allowing all superfluous fondant to drop off. Place them on a tin lined with grease-proof paper, and make a twist of the fondant on the top of each. This may either be done with the side of the fork, or put on afterwards by putting a little of the fon- dant into a forcing bag and forcing out a twist on the top of the sweets. When coating, the fondant must be re-warmed from time to time, or whenever it becomes too thick. Keep it constantly stirred, and hold the pan over a low flame to warm it. The bottom of the saucepan must never be so hot that the fingers cannot touch it comfortably. After coating, the fondants must again be left to dry, when they are ready, unless they are to be kept for any length of time, when they should be crystallised (see below). 2861. Moulded Fondants Fondant. I Flavouring. Stock syrup. | Colouring. The simplest way of moulding fondants is in a starch tray (see p. 596). Fill the tray with some finely-sieved corn starch, and make it perfectly level on the top. Make the required number of impressions with little moulds sold for the purpose. Take some fondant that has been kneaded perfectly smooth, put it into a saucepan with a spout, add flavouring and colouring to taste, and a very little stock syrup. Heat very gradually and carefully over the fire until of a creamy consistency, adding more of the syrup if necessary. Pour this into the impressions in the starch, and when set,- ft the fondants out with a fork, and brush the starch lightly off them. The fondants may then be crystallised if wished. Notes.—The fondant may be put into a paper cornet with a very small opening at the end, and piped into the impressions in the starch, if this is found easier. The starch should be sieved and dried after use. Rubber mats with fancy-shaped impres- sions may be used instead of the starch tray, but these are more expensive, although the shapes are generally very pretty. Two different colours of fondant may be moulded together. 2862. To Crystallise Fondants Special crystallising trays are required for this. Place the fondants on the trays, and cover with another tray to prevent their floating in the syrup. Giver the fondants with crystallising syrup, and lay a piece of muslin that has been wrung out of Crystallising Tray cold water over the top. The syrup must not be used hot, or it will soften the fondants. Leave the fondants in the syrup from 8 to 10 hours, or if a thick coating is required they may be left even longer. Then drain off the syrup, and put the sweets on clean trays to dry. They should then be covered with bright crystals, and will keep better than when left without this coating. 2863. Uncooked Fondant 1 lb. icing sugar. I A squeeze of lemon juice. 1 white of egg. | A little water. Sieve the icing sugar, add to it the white of egg and lemon juice, and then enough sugar to form into one lump. Knead with the hand until smooth, and then use as required. This fondant may be coloured and flavoured and used for chocolate oentres. 2864. Cerises Degulsges Brandy cherries. Coating fondant. Cerises deguisees are brandy cherries, well drained, coated with fondant, and then served in little paper cases. They make a very pretty dessert sweet, and they are not difficult to prepare. Choose cherries that have a little piece of stalk attached to them. Drain them from their liquid about an hour before they are to be coated, place them on a piece of muslin on the top of a sieve, and let them dry exposed to the air. Then prepare some coating fondant as directed on page 598, flavour it with kirsch, or any other flavouring pre- ferred, and either keep it white, or make it a very pale pink with carmine. Or, a pretty eflect can be made by covering half the number of cherries with white fondant, and the other half with pink. The cherries must be very dry before attempting to coat them, otherwise the fondant will run off, so, if necessary, wipe them gently with the musliD. Then dip them one at a time into the prepared fondant, holding them by the stalk. Coat well, and place them on a tin lined with grease-proof