PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 393 1715. Macaroni Pudding (with Eggs) 3 oz. macaroni. 1 pt. milk. 1 table-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. 1 or 2 eggs. Flavouring. Weigh the macaroni, break it into short lengths, and throw it into a saucepan of boiling water. Allow it to cook for ten minutes, then pour off the water. Add the milk to the macaroni and simmer slowly until quite tender, keeping it well stirred during the cooking. The time will depend upon the kind of macaroni used. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, add the sugar and flavouring, and lastly the eggs well beaten and strained. Pour the mixture into a greased pie dish and bake in a moderate oven until delicately browned. Sprinkle with sugar before serving. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 5d. 1716. Rice Pudding (without Eggs) A pinch of salt. Nutmeg or other flavouring. 1| pts. milk. l| table-sps. rice. 1 table-sp. sugar. 1 table-sp. chopped suet Wash the riqe and put it into a well-greased pie dish, with the sugar, salt, and a little grated nutmeg or other flavouring. Pour in the milk and sprinkle the suet, very finely shred or chopped, over the top. Bake the pudding in a slow oven until the rice is quite soft. The slower it is cooked, the softer and creamier it will be. Serve with milk or cream and sugar. Note,—Skim milk may be used, but a little more suet or butter should then be added. Or, the pudding may be made with condensed milk, in which case the sugar should be omitted. Other grains may be cooked in the same way. Time to cook, 2 to 3 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, id. 1717. Rice Pudding (with Eggs) 2 table-sps. rice. 1 or 2 eggs. 1 tea-cupful water. 2 table-sps. sugar. 1J pts. milk. Grated lemon rind. A pinch of salt. 1 Wash the rice, put it into a lined saucepan with the water, and boil until the water is absorbed. Then add the milk, salt, and a little grated lemon rind or other flavouring. Simmer slowly by the side of the fire until the rice is thoroughly cooked, stirring occasionally with a wooden spoon. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, and when slightly cooled, stir in the sugar and yolks of eggs. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a well-greased pie dish, wipe round the edges of the dish, and bake in a moderate oven until nicely browned. Sprinkle with sugar and serve with milk or cream. Note.—A little butter may be added to the above mixture if wished. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 6c?. 1718. Steamed Rice and Milk 2 table-sps. rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. A bay-leaf or small piece of cinnamon stick. Wash the rice and put it into a clean jar with the other ingredients. Cover the jar with a lid or greased paper, and place it in a saucepan with boil- ing water to come half-way up the sides. Allow it to steam until the rice is quite soft, stirring it once or twice with a wooden spoon. Remove the flavouring and serve with stewed fruit, or with milk or cream and sugar. Notes.—This plan is a very convenient one, as the rice requires little or no attention ; there is no fear of its burning and it is kept clean. A double saucepan may be used instead of the jar. Other grains, such as tapioca, sago, and semolina may be cooked in the same way. If fruit is being stewed to serve with it, it may be put into another jar and steamed in the same saucepan. Time, at least 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 per- sons. Probable cost, 5d. 1719. Steamed Rice Pudding See Rice Caramel Pudding (Recipe 1752). The caramel may be omitted and the mould or basin simply greased. 1720. Rice and Apple Pudding Take equal quantities of well-stewed or steamed rice and nicely cooked apples. Grease a small pie dish or fireproof dish, put the stewed apple at the foot of it, and the rice on the top. Sprinkle over some rough sugar or some cake crumbs, and place on some small pieces of butter. Bake in a good oven until nicely browned and hot through. Any other fruit, or even some good jam, may be used instead of apples. 1721. Rice and Chocolate Pudding 2 table-sps. rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. 2 oz. chocolate. 2 table-sps. water. 2 or 3 drops vanilla. Steam the rice with the sugar, milk, and salt until it is quite soft, and according to directions given in Recipe 1718. Grate or shred the chocolate and dissolve it in the water until quite smooth. Then add it to the rice along with a few drops of vanilla, and mix it well in. Serve either hot or cold. A little cream or custard sauce served with it will be an improvement. Time to cook, at least 1 hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 5d. or 6d. 1722. Swedish Rice £ lb. rice. | pt. milk. 4 apples. 2 inches cinnamon stick. 2 table-sps. sugar. Rind of 1 lemon. \ lb. raisins. 1 glass sherry. Wash the rice and put it into a lined saucepan with enough cold water to cover. Bring this to the boil; boil a minute or two, and then pour off the water. Now add the milk, cinnamon stick, lemon rind, and apples thinly sliced. Cook all slowly until apples and rice are tender, then add the sugar, wine, and the raisins carefully stoned and roughly chopped. Cook a few minutes longer, remove the lemon rind and cinnamon and serve hot or cold, and with or without cream or milk.