236 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 947. Veal Hot Pot with Dumplings 1 lb. fleshy veal. 2 or 3 oz. fat bacon. Hot water. A small bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. 6 oz. flour. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1\ tea-sp. baking powder. Milk or water. Salt. Wipe the veal and cut it in small pieces free from skin and bone ; cut the bacon also in small pieces and put them both into a saucepan with hot water to cover them. Season with pepper, salt if necessary, and the bunch of herbs. A little sliced onion may also be added if liked. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly on the stove, or in the oven, until the veal is tender, about 1 hour. When nearly ready, prepare the dumplings. Sieve the flour, salt, and baking powder into a basin and rub in the butter until free from lumps. Then mix very lightly with water or milk into a softish dough. Turn the veal into a hot-pot dish and put the dough, shaped in spoonfuls, on the top. Bake in a moderate oven until the dumplings have risen and are well cooked, about \ hour. Then serve at once in the same dish. Time to cook, about 11 hours. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 948. Loin of Veal with Macaroni (Longue de Veau a la Milanaise) 21 lbs. loin of veal. 2 oz. good dripping. 1 onion. 1 carrot. A bunch of herbs. 1 gill stock. 1 glass white wine. Seasoning. Garnish.—Macaroni a la Milanaise. Bone the meat carefully (see p. 205), trim and wipe it with a damp cloth, and tie it up neatly. Brown it in a saucepan with a little good dripping, then add the carrot and onion cut in small pieces and brown them also. Add the stock, wine (this may be omitted), bunch of herbs, and seasoning, cover and cook in the oven until the meat is tender. There should only be enough stock to prevent the meat becoming dry, and the meat must be basted with it every now and then. While the meat is cooking, prepare some macaroni a la Milanaise (Recipe 1C 18). To Serve.—Place the veal neatly on one side of a dish, cutting the number of slices which are likely to be required, and arrange the macaroni on the other side. Remove all fat from the top of the gravy and strain it over the meat. Time to cook, 1J to 2 hours. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 10d. 94-9. Curry of Veal 1 lb. fleshy veal. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 2 table - sps. chopped apple. 2 oz. butter or dripping. 1 dessert-sp. flour of rice. 1 dessert-sp. chutney. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. 1 gill cocoanut or al- mond milk. 1 gill light stock. Salt. 1 lump sugar. 1 or 2 table-sps. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Wipe the veal and cut it in small pieces free from skin and bone. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped onion, and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to brown. Then put in the meat, curry powder, rice flour, apple, and chutney, and cook a few minutes longer, stirring carefully. Now add the cocoanut or almond milk (see Index), stock and salt, mix together, cover and cook slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the meat is tender. Add the cream, lemon juice, and sugar just before serving. Serve with a dish of plainly boiled rice. Note.—For curry made with cooked veal see Recipe 1019. Time to cook, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. 950. Ragout of Veal 1| lbs. fleshy veal. 2 or 3 oz. fat bacon. 1 onion. 1 or 2 sticks celery. A bunch of herbs. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 gill sour cream. 1 pt. stock. Fried croutons. Wipe the veal and cut it in small neat pieces free from skin and bone. Cut the bacon in small thin pieces, put it in an earthenware casserole and cook it until smoking hot. Then put in the onion cut in very thin rings and cook it a minute or two, but without browning. Next add the prepared veal, the celery cut in fine shreds, bunch of herbs, and the seasoning, pour the stock over, put on a Earthenware Casserole lid and cook the ragout in the oven or by the side of the fire. When the veal is tender, lift out the herbs, add the cream, make thoroughly hot, and then serve in the casserole garnished with croutons of fried bread or pastry. Potato balls and a puree of spinach would be good accompaniments to this dish. Time to cook, 1| to 2 hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost,- 2s. 951. Veal Chops, Sautfis 4 or 5 veal chops. 2 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. flour. 1 gill light stock. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Juice of \ lemon. Seasoning. Beat the chops with a cutlet bat or rolling-pin to make them tender, then wipe them and trim them neatly. Scrape the bones and shorten them if long and unsightly. Now melt the butter in a frying or saute pan, and when hot lay in the veal chops and keep turning them every minute or two until they are thoroughly cooked, or until they feel firm under pressure. When ready, arrange them neatly on a hot dish and keep them warm. Add the flour to the fat left in the pan and mix it in smoothly, then add the stock and lemon juice and stir until boiling. Skim if necessary, season to taste, and add the chopped parsley at the last. Pour this sauce over and round the chops. Baked tomatoes or spinach would make a good