PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS No luncheon or dinner is complete without a pudding of some kind. Puddings, therefore, form an indis- pensable part of the daily menu. Unfortunately the art of cooking the various kinds of hot sweets is apt to he neglected. The same kind of pudding will he sent up to the table day after day without any attempt at achieving a note of variety. This is a pity, because the puddings that can be made at little cost are many and varied. All kinds of puddings and hot sweets are dealt with in this section, which has been divided up as follows for easy reference : Part I dealing with Milk Puddings ; Part II, Boiled and Steamed Puddings; Part III, Baked Puddings; Part IV, Fritters and Fried Puddings ; Part V, Hot Souffles and Omelets. PART I SIMPLE MILK PUDDINGS GENERAL REMARKS Milk pudding is the name given to a pudding made of some farinaceous substance, such as rice, semolina, tapioca, &c., cooked in milk. The proportion of farinaceous substance to allow will vary somewhat according to its kind, but it is usually from 1 to 1J oz. to a pint of milk. All grains should be washed before being used, as one never knows what handling they have had ; and the larger kinds, such as barley, tapioca, and sago will cook better if they can be soaked in a little cold water before being cooked in milk. Care must be taken to cook all the farinaceous or starchy foods thoroughly, as, unless the grains are well burst, they may prove most unwholesome. Fresh milk, skim milk, or condensed milk may be used for making these puddings. If skim milk is employed, a little extra butter or some finely- shred suet should be added to replace the fat which has been removed in the cream. Swiss milk and other forms of condensed milk are also very good for making milk puddings. They should be well diluted with tepid water, and if a sweetened brand is used the sugar given in the recipe should either be omitted, or regulated accordingly. Milk puddings may be made either with or with- out eggs. Eggs should not be added until the grain itself is well cooked, otherwise a heat which is sufficient to cook the latter would curdle the eggs. From one to two eggs to a pint of milk are the usual proportions. The pudding is always lighter when the white of egg is separated from the yolk, and beaten up to a stiff froth. This introduces air into the pudding and causes it to rise. A strong enamelled, aluminium, or earthenware saucepan is to be preferred for making a milk pudding. Thin enamelled saucepans should be avoided, as it is almost impossible to keep the contents from burning. A double saucepan is invaluable when the mixture requires long cooking and little attention can be given to it, or, if an ordinary saucepan is being used, it is a good plan 390 to place an asbestos mat underneath it, or to raise it slightly above the hot plate on a small trivet. Before putting milk into a saucepan, always rinse it out with cold water or grease the bottom of it, as this will help to prevent the milky substance sticking to it and burning. The flavouring of milk puddings is very much a matter of taste; the simplest flavourings are always the best, such as grated lemon or orange rind, grated nutmeg, ground cinnamon or other spice. When lemon or orange rind is used, it should be grated off very thinly, and none of the white taken. It is a good plan to rub it into the sugar used in the pudding, as this helps to draw out the flavour. Stick cinnamon, vanilla pod, and bay-leaves may also be used if they are infused first in the warm milk and then lifted out before the farinaceous substance is added. Over flavour- ing must be avoided, and variety must be studied as much as possible. Some cooks continually use nutmeg, and their milk puddings never appear without a good sprinkling of this spice over the surface, while others seem to have no ideas beyond thick strips of lemon peel. The various essences, such as vanilla, raspberry, strawberry, ratafia, &c., are also useful for flavouring, but they must be used with caution and the quantity must not be overdone. The amount of sugar used in the puddings is entirely a matter of taste, and must be regulated accordingly. A pinch of salt is an improvement to all puddings; this is frequently used in the beat- ing up of the white of egg. A Baked Milk Pudding.—If a milk pudding has to be baked in the oven without any previous cooking in a saucepan, the oven must be a very slow one, otherwise the milk will boil over and burn, before the grain has had time to swell and thicken it. Several hours in a slow oven are much better than a shorter time in a hot one. If, on the other hand, the farinaceous substance has been cooked in a saucepan, and the pudding is merely put into the oven to cook the eggs and brown the top, a fairly hot oven is best. When baking a custard pudding, it is a good plan to place the pie dish containing it in a tin with a little water round it, as this will avoid the danger of its boiling and curdling. The same method should be employed