229 SIMPLE AND SAVOURY MEAT DISHES good sauce, suchastomato, mushroom, brown caper, &c., may be served separately. Time to fry, 8 to 10 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. each. 911. Savoury Chops 3 mutton chops. 2 table - sps. chopped onion. 1 carrot. 1 turnip. I pt. stock. 1 table-sp. rice. Seasoning. Wipe the chops with a damp cloth and trim off most of the fat. Melt some of this fat in a frying pan and fry the chops in it for two or three minutes, browning them on both sides. Cut the carrot and turnip into small pieces—there should be about 1 tea-cupful of each—and put them at the bottom of a stewpan with the chopped onion, and rice well washed. Pour in the stock, season with pepper and salt, and bring to the boil. Then put in the chops, cover, and cook slowly until meat and vegetables are tender. Serve the vegetables on a hot dish with the chops on the top, and garnish with sippets of toast. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 persons. Probable cost. Is. 4d. 912. Mutton Cutlets (Cotelettes de Mouton) 1J lbs. best end of the neck of mutton. Salt. Pepper. White bread-crumbs. 1 egg. 2 or 3 oz. clarified fat. A potato border. Brown, tomato, or piquante sauce. To Trim the Cutlets.—For mutton cutlets the meat should be very small, and the butcher should be instructed to saw off the chine bone, as when this is done, the cutlets can be easily divided without the aid of a saw or chopper. Wipe the meat with a damp cloth, then cut it with a very sharp knife, allowing a bone to each cutlet. (This quantity should make about five.) Beat them out with a cutlet bat or rolling-pin. Trim off the fat, leaving only a narrow rim, and scrape one inch of the bone at the end quite clean, to allow of a cutlet frill being put on afterwards. Scrape also the bone on the inner side, and if too long and unsightly, chop a piece off each, but make all the cutlets as nearly as possible the same shape and size. Season them with pepper and salt, brush over with well-beaten egg, and coat with finely-made bread- crumbs. Put the cutlets on a board and re-shape them with a clean dry knife, and remove all crumbs from the inside bone. Then lay them on a dish or tin with a double paper under them, and they are ready for cooking. To Cook the Cutlets.—Melt about 2 oz. of clarified fat in a frying pan, and allow it to become smoking hot over the fire. Then lay in the cutlets, and fry them rather slowly, first on one side and then on the other, until they are nicely browned. Drain them well on the kitchen paper before dishing. To Serve the Cutlets.—Arrange a border of potatoes (Recipe 543) on a hot dish and arrange the cutlets on the top of this, one leaning against the other, and with all the bones to the inside. The ends of the bones may be garnished with small cutlet frills. Pour brown, tomato, piquante, or any other suit- able sauce round. Notes.—The cutlets may be dished in a straight row down the centre of the dish instead of in a circle. Spinach may be used instead of potato, or the cutlets may be dished without either. Green peas, mushrooms, small baked tomatoes, or a macedoine of vegetables may be put in the centre as a garnish. Time to fry, 8 to 10 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 2d. Cutlet Bat 913. Grilled Cutlets with Cucumber (Cotelettes Grillees aux Concombres Farcis) 4 or 5 mutton cutlets. Butter. Salt. Pepper, Bread-crumbs. Stuffed cucumber. Watercress. Trim the cutlets neatly and flatten them slightly. Brush them over on both sides with melted butter and season with pepper and salt. Then coat them with fine bread-crumbs, pressing them on with a knife. Grill the cutlets (see p. 208), put a cutlet frill on the bones and arrange them neatly on a hot dish. Garnish with an equal number of pieces of stuffed cucumber (see Recipe 482) and small bunches of watercress arranged alternately round the dish. Note.—Another garnish may be used if preferred. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 2s. to 2s. 6d. 914. Masked Cutlets Mutton cutlets. Green peas. Mashed potatoes. Tomato sauce. Egg and bread-crumbs. Trim the cutlets neatly (see Recipe 912) and either fry or grill them for 5 minutes in order to partially cook them. Have ready some well-pre- pared mashed potato (Recipe 537) and pile a little on the round part of each cutlet, smoothing it over with a knife. Then egg and bread-crumb the