COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 86 sauce (see Recipe 675), make it thoroughly hot and strain round. Garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Time to cook, 1 to li hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. 200. Stewed Conger Eel (Ragout de Congre) 2 lbs. conger eel. 1 pt. stock. 1 or 2 table-sps. sherry. 1 oz. flour. 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. 2 hard-boiled eggs. Cut the eel in slices, season it with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice or vinegar, and let it lie for a short time. Put about 1 pint of well-flavoured stock into a saucepan and bring it to the boil. There should be sufficient stock to cover the fish, and if it is wanting in flavour a little sliced vege- table. and a small bunch of herbs should be added. When boiling lay in the fish, cover, and simmer very slowly until tender. Then lift out the fish, arrange the slices neatly on a hot dish, and keep them warm. In a small saucepan melt the butter and let it brown slightly, stir in the flour and cook it a minute or two, then draw the pan to one side and strain in the stock from the other saucepan. Stir until boiling, add the sherry and other seasoning to taste, skim well and strain over fish. Decorate with the hard- boiled eggs cut in small sections, or, if preferred, with small forcemeat balls. Time to cook, \ hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Flounder (Carrelet) The flounder is a flat fish resembling the plaice, but inferior in quality. In some parts of the country it goes under the name of fluke. It is brownish in colour, mottled with a darker brown, Flounder but its appearance varies somewhat according to the nature of the ground from which it is taken. It is light and easily digested, but must be eaten very fresh, the day it is caught if possible. Flounder may be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking plaice or sole. Gurnet or Gurnard (Grondin) This is an excellent little fish and generally moderate in price. It is not attractive looking, a s it has a large head in proportion to the size of the body, but the flesh is white and firm and very pleasant in flavour. It is inclined to be dry, so a fair amount of fat must be used in its preparation. There are different kinds of gurnet, but the red is generally considered the best. Gurnet Besides the recipes given below, it may be cooked according to any of the methods recommended for haddock. 201. Gurnets with Potatoes 3 or 4 small gurnets. 3 or 4 potatoes. A few slices bacon fat. Pepper. Salt. A little flour. Lemon juice.' 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Clean and wash the fish, cutting off the heads and fins. Score them across two or three times on each side with a knife, season them with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice, and let them lie half an hour. Meanwhile prepare the potatoes, parboil them about 10 minutes, and then cut them in quarters. Then take a baking dish or tin and lay in it a few slices of fat bacon. Coat the fish lightly with flour, lay them on the top and put a small piece of fat bacon on the top of each. Put the potatoes round the fish, cover all with greased paper, and bake in a good oven until both are ready. The pieces of potato should be turned over once during the cooking. When ready, lift the fish carefully on to a hot dish, arrange the potatoes round them, and sprinkle with the chopped parsley. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 202. Fillets of Gurnet au Gratin (Filets de Grondin au Gratin) 3 or 4 gurnets. 1 oz. butter. Pepper and salt. 6 or 8 small mushrooms. 1 gill brown sauce. Lemon juice. 2 table- sps. bread-crumbs. 1 table-sp. grated cheese. Skin and fillet the fish (see p. 78), season the fillets with pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. Fold them in two, and arrange them neatly in a greased fireproof dish. If fresh mushrooms are used, pre- pare and trim them as directed in Recipe 513, and place a head on the top of each fillet of fish; if preserved mushrooms, simply drain them from their liquor, and if small use a larger number. Warm about a gill of brown sauce and pour it over the fish. Then sprinkle the top with the bread-crumbs and grated cheese mixed together. Lay the butter in small pieces on the top, and bake in a moderate