572 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD and add the sugar also sieved. Grate or shred the chocolate, and dissolve in a small saucepan with the water. Now add it to the chestnuts and sugar, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. Beat the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix it with the other ingredients at the last. Arrange some wafer paper on a dry baking tin, drop small portions of the mixture on to it, keeping them some little distance apart, and bake in a moderate oven until crisp. 2735. Chocolate Biscuits A lb. icing sugar. 2 oz. powdered choco- late. 2 oz. ground almonds. About 2 whites of eggs. Vanilla essence. Put the ground almonds and chocolate into a basin or mortar, and mix them or pound them to a smooth paste with 1 white of egg. Then add the sugar sifted, vanilla essence to flavour nicely, and enough of the second white of egg to make all into a smooth paste. Now put this paste into a lined saucepan, and stir it carefully over the fire until lukewarm. Then put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe on the end of it, and force out small fancy- shaped biscuits on a greased and floured tin. Allow the biscuits to dry for 3 or 4 hours, then bake them in a cool oven until crisp. Time to bake, about \ hour. Probable cost, Id. to the touch. Turn them on to a sieve or wire tray to cool. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, 8d. 2738. Cinnamon Macaroons A lb. ground almonds. A lb. icing sugar. 1 oz. flour. A tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. Some white of egg. Icing.—3 tab.-sps. icing sugar, 1 tea-sp. flour, white of egg. Sieve the flour, icing sugar, and cinnamon on to the baking-board, and mix with the ground almonds. Then add gradually enough white of egg to form a very stiff paste. Work with the hands until per- fectly smooth and elastic, and form into a long roll quite free from cracks. Flour the rolling-pin and press out the roll into an even strip, keeping it perfectly straight at the edges so as to avoid any waste. Then prepare the icing. Mix the flour and icing sugar together, and bind with a very little white of egg. Spread this smoothly over the almond paste with a wetted knife, and then cut in neat fingers. Place these on a greased and floured tin, and bake in a moderate oven until a light brown colour, and firm and crisp to the touch. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, 8ct. 2736. Chocolate Rock Biscuits 10 oz. icing sugar. A lb. sweet almonds. 1A oz. powdered choco late. 1 or 2 whites of eggs. 2 or 3 drops of vanilla. Wafer paper. Blanch the almonds, shred them finely and length- wise, and make them very dry. Add to them the sugar and chocolate, which have been sifted to- gether, flavour with vanilla, and add enough white of egg to bind all together. Place some wafer paper on a baking sheet, and form the mixture on it in little heaps about the size of a penny, but high and rocky. Allow these to dry for 3 or 4 hours, then bake them in a cool oven until crisp and lightly browned. Note.—The chocolate may be omitted from this mixture, and other flavourings and colourings added according to taste. Time to bake, about A hour. Probable cost, 10d. 2737. Cinnamon Biscuits A lb. flour. J lb. castor sugar. | lb. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. ground cinna- mon. Milk if necessary. Sieve all the dry ingredients into a basin, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until free from lumps. Then bind together with the yolk of an egg, and a little milk if necessary. The dough must not be made too soft, but of the consistency of pastry. Knead with the hand until free from cracks, and turn out on a slightly floured board. Flour a rolling-pin and roll out the dough to A of an inch in thickness. Then cut in rounds or fancy shapes, and place the biscuits on a greased baking tin. Roll out the scraps that remain, and repeat the pro- cess until all the dough is used up. Bake the biscuits in a moderate oven, until they feel firm 2739. Cocoanut Biscuits 2 oz. desiccated cocoa- nut. 2 oz. castor sugar. 1 tea-sp. flour. 1 white of egg. Wafer paper. Chop the cocoanut a little more finely if neces- sary, and mix it in a basin with the other dry in- gredients. Whip the white of egg to a stiff froth, and bind all together with this. Put small squaTea of wafer paper on a dry baking tin, arange a tea- spoonful of the mixture on each, and bake in a slow oven until the biscuits are firm, and of a pale brown colour. Cool them on a sieve, breaking off the wafer paper which projects beyond the edges. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 4d. 2740. Dutch | lb. castor sugar. 4 whites of eggs. A lb. ground almonds. Macaroons Vanilla or orange flower water. Wafer paper. Sieve the icing sugar and put it into a mortar with the ground almonds. Flavour with orange flower water or a few drops of vanilla, and pound well, adding the white of eggs by degrees.. The mixture must not be made too moist. Put it into a forcing bag, and force out small rounds or fancy shapes on wafer paper. Allow the macaroons to dry in a warm place (on the rack above the stove would do) for several hours, then bake and colour slightly. Cool on a sieve on wire stand and trim off the wafer paper. Probable cost, 9d. 2741. Finger Biscuits 3 eggs. J lb. castor sugar. J lb. Vienna flour. Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and beat them over a saucepan of hot water until thick and frothy. Then remove the basin from the top of