48 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD water, to which has been added a little vinegar od lemon juice, in order to preserve the colour. Melt the butter in a lined or enamelled saucepan, add the artichokes, drained and cut in thin slices, also the celery cut in shreds and the ham. Put the lid on the pan and cook over the fire about ten minutes, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent the con- tents burning. Then add the stock and seasoning and let all simmer gently from 1 to 1| hours until the artichokes are quite soft. Rub the soup through a fine wire sieve into a basin, pressing through as much as possible, then rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Put the flour into a basin, and add the milk gradually to it, mixing until quite smooth. Add this to the soup and stir over the fire until boiling. Continue boiling for a few minutes, and add more seasoning if necessary. Serve with fried or toasted crofltons of bread (see Recipe 1301). Note.—A better soup may be made by rubbing the ingredients through a hair instead of a wire sieve and adding 1 gill of cream and 1 or 2 yolks of eggs instead of the flour and milk. Time to cook, 1£ hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, If pints. 30. Artichoke and Potato Soup Prepare in the same way as above, using equal quantities of artichokes and potatoes. This makes a very good combination. Artichokes and Spanish onions can be used in the same way. 31. Beetroot Soup (Soupe aux Betteraves) 2 cooked beetroots. 1 qt. meat boilings. 2 onions. 1 or 2 sticks of celery. 1| oz. good dripping. 1 table-sp. flour. 4 pt. milk. Seasoning. Take two medium-sized cooked beetroots, peel them and cut them in thin slices. Wash the celery and cut it in shreds, and peel and slice the onion. Melt the dripping in a saucepan, put in the sliced vegetables and cook them a few minutes over the fire without allowing them to brown. Then add the meat boilings (or any light stock will do), mix well, and allow all to simmer slowly at least 1 hour. When the vegetables are soft, rub as much as pos- sible through a wire sieve into a basin, rinse out the saucepan and return the soup to it to reheat. Mix the flour smoothly with the milk, add them to the soup and stir constantly until boiling. Season to taste and serve with fried crofltons of bread. Note.—This soup may be made richer by adding 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of cream just before serving. A little finely shred lettuce or some chopped parsley may be used as a garnish. If the liquid reduces when cooking, more must be added. Time to cook, 1 £ hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, 2| pints. 32. Broccoli Soup 1 large broccoli. 2 onions. 1 large carrot. 2 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 1 tea-cupful rice. 4 pts. warm water or meat boilings. Use the flower and the best part of the stalk of the broccoli for making this soup. Wash and trim them carefully, then cut the stalk in thin slices and break the flower into small pieces. Peel the onions and cut them in small pieces also. Melt the drip- ping or fat in a saucepan, put in the prepared onion and broccoli along with the rice well washed, season with pepper and salt and cook over the fire for a few minutes without allowing the con- tents of the saucepan to brown. Then add the water or meat boilings, bring to the boil and allow the soup to simmer slowly for 1 hour at least. Grate the carrot, add it to the soup, and cook for half an hour longer. Heat the milk separately and add it to the soup at the last. Time to cook, 1 4 to 2 hours. Probable cost, 8d. to lOd. Quantity, 3 to 4 pints. 33. Brown Vegetable Soup (Soupe aux Legumes) 1 cupful each of carrot, turnip, onion, and celery. 3 pts. water or meat boilings. A bunch of herbs. 14 oz. butter or dripping. l| oz. flour. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Salt. Pepper. Prepare the vegetables, cut them in small pieces, and dry them in a cloth. Melt the fat in a saucepan, when very hot put in the prepared vegetables, and turn them over and over with a spoon until they are nicely browned. Then remove them from the saucepan, put in the flour and allow that to brown also. Add the water gradually and stir until boiling. Put back the vegetables with the herbs and seasonings and allow all to simmer slowly from 1| to 2 hours, or until the ingredients are quite soft and pulpy. Strain through a fine sieve, and rub through as much of the vegetable as possible. Return the soup to the saucepan to reheat. Season to taste and serve with fried crofltons. Notes.—The addition of 1 or 2 tomatoes is an improvement to this soup. They should be put in when the liquid comes to the boil and not fried with the other vegetables. A little cooked macaroni cut in rings or the fancy Italian paste may be used as a garnish. Time to cook, 2 to 2J hours. Probable cost, 4d. to 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 34. Broad Bean Soup (Soupe aux Feves) 1 pt. shelled beans. 2 pts. water or meat boilings. 1 onion. 1 oz. dripping or bacon fat. 1 cupful hot milk. White pepper and salt. A pinch of sugar. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Put the beans jnto boiling water slightly salted and cook them quickly 10 or 12 minutes. Drain off the water, rinse the beans in cold water to cool them, and then remove the tough outer skin, keep- ing only the green interior. Melt the fat in.a sauce- pan, put in the beans and onion cut in thin slices, sprinkle with pepper and salt and cook slowly for a few minutes with the lid on the pan. Add the water or meat boilings and mix well. Then cook until the beans are quite tender, from f to 1 hour according to the age of the vegetable. When ready, rub through a sieve, rinse out the saucepan, and return the puree to it to reheat. Add the hot milk, the parsley, sugar, and more seasoning if necessary. If too thick, a little more water or milk may be added. Serve with crofltons of toast. Time to cook, 1 to 14 hours. Probable cost, 8d. Quantity, about 2 pints.