523 SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET 2459. Game Sandwiches 3 or 4 table-sps. cooked game. A little brown sauce. 1 tea-sp. red-currant jelly. Brown or white bread and butter. Take the remains of cold roast game, remove from them all skin and bone, and put them through the mincing machine. Put the mince into a basin, add the red-currant or any other sharp jelly, and enough good brown sauce to moisten and bind all together, adding more seasoning if necessary. Spread a layer of this mixture between thin slices of brown or white bread and butter. Press to- gether, trim and cut in shape. Garnish with parsley or cress. Note.—A layer of finely-shred lettuce or small cress may be added if desired. 2460. Ham Sandwiches Cooked ham. Mustard. Bread and butter. The ham should be thinly sliced and then cut in convenient sized pieces free from rust. Lay these pieces between slices of bread and butter that have been lightly spread with mustard. Arrange the ham in such a way that there is an equal distribu- tion of lean and fat. Press together, and trim if necessary. If the ham is very scrappy, it may be better to mince it; it may then be moistened with a little chutney or tomato ketchup. This chopped ham mixture is very good in toast sandwiches. 2461. Lettuce Sandwiches Crisp lettuce. I White bread. Maitre d’hotel butter. Take the crisp inside part of a lettuce, trim and wash it quickly, and dry it lightly in a clean towel. Then cut it in fine shreds, removing any hard stalk. Spread thin slices of bread with maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770), and make sandwiches with the shred lettuce between. Press well together, trim and cut in shape with a very sharp knife. Serve garnished with a little of the shred lettuce. Note.—Plain butter or other kinds of savoury butter may be used instead of maitre d’hotel butter. Other green salads may be used in the same way. 2463. Nasturtium Sandwiches Nasturtium flowers. | Brown or white bread Cream cheese. I and butter. Make neat little sandwiches of brown or white bread and butter and a layer of cream cheese, and put a few nasturtium flower petals into each. Garnish them with nasturtium leaves and one or two of the flowers. The cheese may be omitted, and simply bread and butter used with the nas- turtium petals. These sandwiches are very delicate and delicious, and can either be served as an accompaniment to a salad or at afternoon teas. 2464. Olive Sandwiches Olives. Celery. Cream cheese. Bread and butter. Stone the olives, cut them in thin shreds, and mix them with an equal quantity of finely chopped celery. Cut some thin slices of brown or white bread and butter, spread half the number of pieces with cream cheese, and sprinkle with the olives and celery. Cover with the other pieces of bread, and press lightly together. Then trim neatly and serve garnished with parsley or some green tops of celery and a few olives. 2465. Pastry Sandwiches PuS or flaky pastry. 3 table-sps. cooked chicken or game. 1 table-sp. cooked ham or tongue. 2 table-sps. brown or white sauce. 1 yolk of egg. Seasoning. Roll out some pastry about J inch in thickness, and cut it in finger-shaped pieces. Place these on a baking sheet, brush them over with a little beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a good oven until nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Meanwhile prepare the mixture for filling. Chop the meat very finely, or put it through the mincing machine. Moisten it with some good sauce or whipped cream, and season to taste. When the pastry is ready, split the pieces open and remove any soft part from the centre. Put in some of the mixture and close together again. These sandwiches may be served hot or cold. Notes.—Qther savoury mixtures may be used instead of the above. If to be served hot, heat the mixture first and put the sandwiches into the oven for two or three minutes after filling. 2462. Lobster Sandwiches 2 or 3 table-sps. lobster meat. Mayonnaise or white sauce. Anchovy or shrimp essence. Pickled gherkin. Seasoning. Small rolls. Butter. Take some cooked lobster meat and chop it finely, being careful to remove any pieces of shell. Put it into a basin, and moisten it with mayonnaise or some good white sauce. Season with cayenne, salt, and a few drops of anchovy or shrimp essence. Split and butter some small finger-shaped rolls. Put a spoonful of the lobster mixture in the centre of each, sprinkle it with a little chopped or shred gherkin, and put on the covers. Serve garnished with small cress. 2466. Potted Meat Sandwiches Very tasty and quickly made sandwiches can be made from all the potted meats sold in tins and jars. The paste may be spread on brown or white bread and butter, buttered biscuits, or little rolls, according to fancy, and some thinly-sliced cucumber, tomato, cress, or other salad may be added. If the paste is highly seasoned it must be used sparingly, or it may be toned down by being mixed with hard-boiled egg, or a little good thick sauce, or double cream. 2467. Rolled Sandwiches Potted meat. Brown bread. Butter. Cream the butter on a plate with an equal quan- tity of some tasty potted meat. If a highly