635 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES wire sieve, in order to mix them thoroughly and make them free from lumps. Then put the mixture into a dry tin lined with paper, or into a glass jar with a good stopper, and store in a dry place. 3072. Baking Powder, 2 | lb. cream of tartar. I § lb. ground rice. £ lb. carbonate of soda. | Mix and store as in preceding recipe. 3073. To Preserve Eggs 2 qts. quicklime. I \ oz. cream of tartar. I lb. coarse salt. I 50 eggs. 1 gallon -water. Put the lime, salt, and cream of tartar into a large pan or crock. Mix them together and pour on the gallon of cold water. Cover over and leave this mixture standing until next day. Then strain and pour the liquid over the eggs. The eggs should be completely covered, and will keep thus for several months. If the liquid should re- duce, more should be added. 3074. To Make Candied Peel The peel used for candying should be sound and fresh. Cut it in convenient-sized pieces, and soak it in salt and water for a few days. Then drain off the water and put the peel into a lined saucepan with fresh cold water to cover it. Bring to the boil, and simmer slowly until the peel is quite tender. Drain again and put the peel into a basin. Now measure 1 lb. of granulated sugar and \ pt. of water to six skins, and boil them together for 10 minutes. Pour this syrup over the peel, cover the basin, and stand in a cool place for a week. At the end of this time, pour off the syrup into a clean saucepan and bring it to the boil. Add the peel and let it boil until clear, and very little syrup shows in the saucepan. Turn out on a greased tin or dish, sprinkle with sugar, and set in a warm place to dry and candy. Store in a tin box or in a jar with a lid. 3075. Cocoanut Milk J lb. cocoanut. | pt. boding water. Take fresh cocoanut, using the white part only. Grate and, if possible, pound it as well. Put it into a basin and pour over the boiling water. Cover the basin and let the cocoanut infuse for half an hour at least, stirring occasionally. Then strain, pressing the cocoanut well. This is used in the making of curries. 3076. Almond Milk Make in the same way as cocoanut milk, using chopped and pounded almonds instead of the cocoanut. 3077. Spinach Green 1 lb. spinach. I \ tea-cupful water. | tea-spoonful salt. | Wash the spinach carefully and pick off the stalks. Put it into a large saucepan with the water and salt, cover with the lid, and cook for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. Then turn the spinach on to the top of a hair sieve, press out all the juice, and strain it through a piece of muslin. The liquid may be bottled and used for colouring purposes, while the spinach itself may be served as a vegetable. 3078. Clotted Cream Put some new milk into a large milk pan, and let it stand for twelve hours, or rather less if the weather is warm. Then place the pan at the side of the kitchen range, and let the milk heat slowly. It should be made quite hot (170° to 180° F.), but on no account must it be allowed to boil, and the more slowly it is heated the better. When suffi- ciently scalded, remove the vessel carefully to a cool place, and leave it until the following day. Then skim off the cream ready for use.