158 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD little chopped parsley, chopped ham or tongue, or grated cheese may be added to the mixture. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 543. Potato Border £ lb. cooked potatoes. I 1 yolk of egg and 1 or 2 I oz. butter. A little salt. 1 table-sps. milk. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potato sieved, and the other ingredients. Be careful not to make the mixture too moist, and work all together Hound Potato Border over the fire until it ceases to stick to the spoon. Then flour a board, turn the potato on to it, and roll into a straight even roll. Arrange it in a circle on a flat dish, flute or mark the outside by pressing the back of a fork or the handle of a Straight Potato Border knife against it, and use it for mounting quenelles, cutlets, and other entrees. If preferred, a straight band of potato may be arranged on the dish instead of the circle. Or again, the border may be placed near the rim of the dish, brushed over with beaten egg, browned in the oven and then the centre filled with a ragout, scalloped fish, curry, &c. 544. Potato Cases Choose rather large potatoes, wash and peel them. Cut them in half lengthwise and trim them so as to make them uniform in shape. Then remove all the centre part with a vegetable scoop, leaving a wall of potato about J inch in thickness. Throw these potato cups into boiling salted wateD and allow them to boil gently for 10 minutes. Then lift them out and drain them. These may now be filled with any nice savoury mixture or mince and baked in the oven for 20 or 30 minutes. Note.—The potato cases may be fried instead of boiled, but they will require very careful cooking to prevent their becoming hard. 545. Another Way Make some potato balls as directed in Recipe 157. After egging and bread-crumbing, flatten them slightly on a board with a knife and make an incision on the top of each with a small round cutter. Place the balls in a frying basket and fry them in boiling fat to a golden brown colour. Drain well. Then remove the little round pieces on the top, keeping them to serve as lids, and scoop out the insides very carefully with a small spoon. These cases may then be filled with any nice savoury mixture, meat, fish, or vegetable, and the covers replaced. 546. Potato Curry I lb. raw peeled potatoes. II oz. butter. 1 onion. 1 dessert-sp. curry powder. £ pt. milk. Pepper and salt. 1 table-sp. cream. A squeeze of lemon juice. Boiled rice. Cut the potatoes into small blocks, and slice the onion very thinly. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and stir in the curry powder until smooth. Then add the potato and onion, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and cook slowly for about 10 minutes. Add enough milk to almost cover the potatoes, about a half pint, and simmer slowly for 15 minutes, or until the pieces of potato are cooked, without being reduced to a mash. Add the cream and a squeeze of lemon, and serve hot with a border of boiled rice (Recipe 1586) round, or in a separate dish. Time to cook, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 547. Potatoes a la Duchesse (Pommes de Terre a la Duchesse) \ lb. cooked potatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 yolk of egg. 1 or 2 table-sps. milk. A pinch of nutmeg. Salt, pepper. Beaten egg. Sieve the potatoes. Melt the butter in a sauce- pan and add the potatoes to it with the yolk of egg, seasoning, and enough milk to bind all together. The mixture must not be made moist. Beat well together and turn out on a slightly floured board. Form the mixture into small round cakes, or roll it out and cut it in squares with a knife. Mark these across in a lattice pattern with the back of a knife or with a fluted rolling-pin, and place them on a greased baking tin. Then brush them over with a little beaten egg and bake them in the oven until nicely browned. Serve the little cakes piled up in a hot vegetable dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 548. Potato Fritters (Beignets de Pommes de Terre) \ lb. cooked potatoes. I A pinch of nutmeg, loz. butter. Pepper, salt. | 1 yolk and 2 whites of egg. Rub the potatoes through a wire sieve, or put them through a vegetable presser. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the potato, yolk of egg, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and mix well together. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, and mix them lightly into the potato mixture. Drop the mixture in pieces about the size of a walnut into boiling fat (see French Frying, p. 207), and fry until nicely browned. Lift out with a perforated spoon, place on kitchen paper and drain well. Dish on a dish paper or folded napkin, and garnish with parsley. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. $