305 POULTRY, RABBITS, AND GAME 1254. Creplnettes of Game (Crepinettes de Gibier) 4 oz. cooked game. 2 oz. cooked ham or tongue. I oz. butter. 6 button mushrooms. 1 shallot. 2 tab.-sp. thick sauce (white or brown). 1 yolk of egg. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley Seasoning. A little flour. 1 pig’s caul. A little glaze. Tomato or piquante sauce. First chop finely the game, ham, and mushrooms. Melt the J oz. of butter in a saucepan, add the shallot finely chopped, and fry it a few minutes. Then add the game, ham, and mushrooms and enough thick sauce to bind them all together. Mix well and make thoroughly hot. Then add the chopped parsley and yolk of egg and season to taste with pepper, salt, a squeeze of lemon juice and a pinch of nutmeg. Mix again and spread the mixture on a plate to cool. When set, form it into small cork-shaped pieces, using a little flour to prevent its sticking to the board and knife. Wash the caul in salt and water, dry it, and cut in pieces about 3 inches square. Wrap the little rolls of meat in these and flatten them slightly. Brush over with slightly beaten white of egg to seal up the joins and bake them in the oven about 10 minutes until well browned, brushing them over with a little liquid glaze. Or, if preferred, the crepinettes may be coated with crumbs and fried in a little butter. Serve them on a hot dish with a dish paper under them, and garnish with fried parsley, or on a bed of spinach or potato. Tomato or piquante sauce should be served separately. Note.—For caul, see Recipe 1257. 1255. Fricassee of Game pur6e. 1 glass sherry or port. 1 table-sp. flour. Seasoning. 1 pheasant or 2 par- tridges. J lb. ham or bacon. 3 gills stock. 1 gill tomato sauce or Old birds or those that are not very tender may be used for making a fricassee. Cut them in small neat joints, removing most of the skin. Cut the bacon in small pieces and fry it a few minutes in a stewpan. Then lift it out, leaving the liquid. Now put the joints of game into this liquid fat and keep turning them over until brown on all sides. Return the bacon, add the wine and let it reduce one half. Pour in the stock and tomato puree, cover the saucepan, and stew slowly by the side of the fire or in the oven until the bird or birds are tender. When ready, lift out the joints of game, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Mix the flour smoothly with a little water or stock, add it to the gravy in the stewpan, and stir until boiling. Then skim carefully, season to taste, and strain over the pieces of game. Garnish with chest- nut or potato balls or any other garnish preferred. Time to cook, 2 to hours. 1256. Game Hot Pot Joints of game. 4 to 6 oz. streaky bacon. 2 sheep’s kidneys. 1 shallot. I doz. potatoes. Seasoning. 1 gill good stock. A little butter. as possible. Cut the bacon in small thin slices, slice the kidneys, removing the skin, peel and chop the shallot, and slice the potatoes rather thinly. Then take a fireproof hot-pot dish, or pie dish, grease it well and fill it with layers of the different ingredients, adding seasoning to taste. The last layer should be slices of potato neatly arranged so as to cover what is below. Pour in the stock, melt the butter and run it over the top. Cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven from li to 2 hours, or until the game is tender. Re- move the paper and sprinkle with a little finely chopped parsley before serving. Note.—If no stock is at hand, the bones and trimmings of the game should be put into a saucepan with cold water to cover them and a few small pieces of flavouring vegetables, boiled for a short time and then strained. 1257. Kromeskis of Game (Cromesquis au Chasseur) 1 or 2 tab.-sps. brown sauce. A little grated lemon 6 oz. cooked game. 2 oz. cooked ham. A few button mush- rooms. 1 truffle. 1 tea.-sp. chopped parsley. rind. A little flour. Bacon. Frying batter. Chop the game and ham very finely, and add to them the chopped parsley and the mushrooms and truffle also chopped. Bind together with some thick and very good brown sauce and season nicely. Allow the mixture to set, and then form it into small cork- shaped rolls with the aid of a little flour. Wrap these in very thin slices of bacon (unless the bacon is very thin it will not be sufficiently cooked), dip them in frying batter (Recipe 1862), coating them well, and fry them a nice brown colour in boiling fat. Do not put too many into the fat at one time, and do not cook them too quickly. When ready, drain on kitchen paper, and serve piled up on a hot dish with a dish paper under them. Garnish with fried parsley. Notes.—Instead of fat bacon, pig’s caul may be used—a thin, netted-looking membrane, which can be bought from the butcher, and will keep good for some days in salt and water. When wanted, this should be well rinsed and cut in proper-sized pieces with a pair of scissors. The mushrooms and truffles may be omitted. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1258. Salmi of Game (Salmis de Gibier) Remains of cooked game 2 or 3 shallots. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. £ pt. stock or gravy. A bouquet garni. Rind of 1 orange. Lemon juice. Seasoning. 1 glass red or white wine. 1 slice of toast. Croutons of fried bread. Take 1 or 2 birds and cut them in neat pieces, removing the carcase bone and as much of the skin Remains of any cooked birds may be used for a salmi, or two different kinds of birds may be used together. Cut the game into neat pieces, removing as much of the skin as possible. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour and stir them over the fire until they become a nice brown. Pour in the stock and stir again until boiling. Then add the shallots, the trimmings and any bones of game, bouquet garni, and thinly peeled rind of 1 orange. Simmer this for at least | hour, and strain through a fine strainer. Return the sauce to the stewpan, add a little lemon juice, pepper and salt to taste, U