PUDDINGS AND HOT SWEETS 429 Note.—Semolina may be used instead of ground rice. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1916. Lemon Souffle (Souffle au Citron) 1 oz. butter. ' A squeeze of lemon 1 oz. flour. juice. 1 oz. castor sugar. j 3 yolks of eggs. Grated rind of 1 lemon. j 4 whites of eggs. 1 gill of milk. I A pinch of salt. Wipe the lemon with a damp cloth, and grate the rind very thinly off it on to the top of the sugar. Rub the sugar and lemon rind together with the tips of the fingers until the sugar looks quite yellow. Then proceed to make and cook the souffle according to directions given for Steamed Souffle on p. 425, using the lemon sugar and a little lemon juice to sweeten and flavour. When sufficiently cooked, turn out care- fully on to a hot dish, and serve with custard, lemon, or wine sauce poured round it. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Id. 1917. Liqueur Souffl6 1 oz. butter. I 1 or 2 oz. castor sugar. 14 oz. flour. j 1 glass liqueur. 3 eggs. 1 gill milk. 1 A pinch of salt. Make a panada with the butter, flour, and milk as directed for Steamed Souffle on p. 425. When thoroughly cooked, remove the saucepan from the fire, beat in the yolks of the eggs one at a time, and then add the sugar, salt, and liqueur. Finally stir in as lightly as possible the whites of the egg beaten to a stiff froth. Three parts fill a greased souffl6 mould with the mixture and cook it in the oven in a tin of hot water, until well risen and firm to the touch. When sufficiently cooked, re- move the souffle from the oven, allow it to stand a minute or two, and then turn it out. Serve with custard sauce flavoured with the same liqueur as is used in the mixture. Note.—The souffle will take its name from the kind of liqueur used, i.e. souffl6 au curaijao, souffle au noyeau, &c. Time to cook, about J hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1918. Little Orange Souffles 3 large oranges. I 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. 1 oz. potato flour or 2 eggs. cornflour. I 1| oz. butter. Wipe one of the oranges, grate the rind off it, and rub it into the sugar. Then cut the oranges in halves, scoop out all the pulp, and rub it through a fine sieve. Mix the potato flour or cornflour smoothly -with this orange pulp, and then put both into a saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling and cook for 2 or 3 minutes. Then remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the butter, sugar, and yolks of eggs, and mix well together. Whip iip the whites very stiffly and stir them in very lightly at the last. Bake the mixture in small greased souffle dishes until wfell risen and firm to the touch. Serve at once. Notes.—If preferred, the mixture may be baked in one large souffle, or sometimes it is baked in the orange skins. Time to bake, 15 minutes. Sufficient for 7 or 8 souffles. Probable cost, 8d. 1919. Orange Souffi6 (Souffle a l’Orange) Make in the same way as Lemon Souffle, substi- tuting the grated rind of one orange and half the juice in place of lemon rind and juice. Serve with orange sauce. 1920. Peach Souffl6 (Souffle aux Peehes) Make in the same way as Apricot Souffle, sub- stituting 1 gill of peach puree for the apricot pur4e. Serve with peach or wine sauce. 1921. Pine-apple Souffle (Souffle & 1’Ananas) 3 oz. tinned pine-apple. I gill of syrup from tin. 4 gill of milk. A few drops of carmine. Flavouring. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 oz. flour. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites of eggs. Melt the butter in a small stewpan, add the flour, and mix well together with a wooden spoon. Add the pineapple syrup and milk, and stir again over the fire until the mixture thickens and draws away from the sides of the saucepan. Then remove the pan from the fire and add the sugar, yolks, flavouring to taste, and the pine-apple cut in tiny dice. Colour slightly pink with a few drops of carmine. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a prepared souffle tin (p. 425), and steam slowly until firm to the touch. Turn out carefully on to a hot dish, and serve with pine- apple sauce poured round it. Time to steam, 30 to 40 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1922. Prune Souffle (Souffle aux Pruneaux) I lb. prunes. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. 1 gill water. 2 eggs. 2 oz. sugar. 1 table-sp. castor sugar. Juice of £ lemon. A few drops of vanilla. Wash the prunes and let them soak in the water for one hour. Then turn them into a saucepan with the water, and add the sugar and lemon juice. Stew them slowly until quite tender. When the prunes are soft, strain them and reserve the liquid. Stone the prunes, and cut each in four pieces. Return the liquid to the saucepan, and reduce it to form a sauce. Put the yolks of eggs and sugar into a basin, and work them together with a wooden spoon until of a creamy consistency. Add the prunes and vanilla flavouring. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Pour all into a greased souffle dish and bake in a moderate oven. Serve it as soon as it is taken from the oven. Strain the liquid from the prunes into a sauce boat, and serve it separately as a sauce. If liked, a few chopped almonds or the kernels from the prunes may be added to the souffle. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d.