STOCKS AND SOUPS 75 172. Velvet Soup (Potage Velours) | lb. red carrots. 2 oz. butter. 1| pts. white stock. 1 onion or leek. 1 dessert-sp. fine tapioca. Seasoning. 1 gill cream. Use the red part only of the carrots and cut it in thin slices. Put it into a saucepan with the onion or leek also sliced thinly, and half the butter. Cook slowly over the fire for a few minutes, season with pepper and salt. Moisten with \ pint of stock and simmer until the carrot is quite soft. Then rub through a hair sieve. Put the remainder of the stock into a clean sauce- pan and bring it to the boil, sprinkle in the tapioca and allow it to cook until it turns clear. Then add to it the carrot puree and cook the two together for a few minutes. Add the cream and the re- mainder of the butter broken in small pieces. The soup should not boil again after the butter is added. Serve with croiitons of pastry, or puffed rice (Recipe 1605). Note.—The cream may be omitted. Time to cook, 1J hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, 1£ pints. 173, Viennese Soup (Soupe & la Venoise) 3 pts. white stock. 1 oz. barley meal. 1 oz. butter. 2 or 3 sticks white celery. 2 leeks. Seasoning. 1 gill of cream. 2 yolks of eggs. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the barley meal, and cook the two together for a few minutes without allowing them to brown. Moisten with 1 pint of the stock and stir until boiling. Then add the remainder of the stock and the celery and leek cut in fine shreds. Allow the soup to cook slowly for 1 hour, season to taste and add the yolks of eggs and cream just before serving (see p. 40). Serve with croutons of fried bread. Note.—Chicken stock is the best for making this soup. If the soup becomes too thick during the cooking, more stock must be added. Time to cook, 1£ hours. Probable cost, 2s. Quantity, 2J pints. 174. Watercress Cream Soup (Potage CrSme Cressoniere) 2 bunches watercress. 2 oz. butter. | lb. sieved potato. 1 qt. white stock. 1 gill cream. Seasoning. Pick and wash the cress carefully, then drain and chop it roughly, reserving a few good leaves to serve as a garnish for the soup. Put the chopped cress into a saucepan with the butter and allow it to cook for a few minutes over the fire, without browning. Then add the cooked and sieved potato and dilute gradually with the stock. Simmer all together from 15 to 20 minutes and then rub through a hair sieve or tammy. Return the soup to the saucepan to reheat, season to taste and add the cream. Garnish with a few leaves of watercress, which have been boiled in salted water for 5 minutes. Serve with croutons of cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—1 or 2 yolks of eggs may be added to the soup if wished. Time to cook, | hour. Probable cost, Is. lOd. Quantity, 2 pints. 175. White Soup 1 qt. good white stock. I 1 oz. cornflour or potato 2 oz. butter. Salt. | flour. 1 gill cream. Melt the butter in a lined saucepan and stir in the cornflour until smooth. Add the stock gradu- ally and stir until boiling. Pour in the cream, bring to the boil again and simmer 10 minutes. Then strain or tammy and return to the saucepan to reheat. Season to taste and serve with croutons of fried bread, or of cheese pastry (see Recipe 1305). Note.—A garnish may be added to the soup if wished, such as green peas, carrot cut in fancy shapes, asparagus points, egg balls, &c. Time to cook, £ hour. Probable cost. Is. 6d. Quantity, 2 pints. 176, Clear Fish Soup (Consomme Poissoniere) 1 qt. good fish stock. 6 oz. raw white fish. Fish quenelles. The fish stock used flavoured. Put it into 2 whites anfl shells of eggs. 1 glass of white wine, must be good and well a lined saucepan with the wine, the raw fish finely shred and the whites and shells of eggs. Whisk over the fire until a good froth rises, allow the soup to boil well up, then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it stand for 10 minutes. Strain through muslin or a soup cloth, see Consomme, Recipe 117. When all has passed through return the soup to the saucepan to reheat, season to taste and add a garnish of small fish quenelles, see Recipe 1300. If liked, half the quenelles may be coloured pink with a little lobster butter. Quantity, 2 pints. 177, Lobster Soup or Bisque (Bisque de Homard) 1 lobster. 3 pts. fish stock. 1£ oz. butter. 1J oz. flour. | carrot. J turnip. 1 onion. 1 stick celery. A small bunch of herbs. 1 tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. Pepper, salt. 2 table-sps. cream. 1 glass white wine. A squeeze of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a saucepan, and when smoking hot put in the vegetables, cut in small pieces, and fry them a few minutes. Sprinkle in the flour and fry a pale brown colour. Then add the stock and stir until boiling. Meantime have the lobster broken in pieces, remove the green part from the throat, throwing it away, cut the meat from the big claws into neat pieces, and reserve them for serving in the soup. Put the shell and the rest of the lobster into a mortar and pound well. Add this to the soup with the bunch of herbs and boil all together for one hour. Rub through a fine sieve, rinse out the saucepan, and return the soup to it. Let it boil up and skim well. Add the cream, pieces of lobster, wine, and other seasonings; make all very hot and serve with toast. Notes.—If the fish stock is well flavoured some of the above vegetables may be omitted. The wine and cream may also be omitted and a little milk added. If a hen lobster is used and there is spawn, pound this in a mortar with a little butter, rub it through a hair sieve and add it to the soup at the last to give colour. A few fish quenelles (see p. 311) are sometimes served in this soup. Time to cook, 1 \ hours. Quantity, 2 pints.