COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 448 Cook until the rice is perfectly tender and the milk absorbed. (A double saucepan is best for this.) Then add the gelatine dissolved in a little water, the sugar, and more flavouring if wished. Mix well, and when beginning to set, stir in the cream whipped stiffly. Pour the mixture into a wet mould, and allow it to set. Turn out when wanted on to a glass or silver dish. Notes.—This is a very white dish, and makes a delicious dessert. It may be served alone or with a puree of apricots poured round it as a sauce. A compote of fruits may be served separately, or small pieces of ripe fruits, previously soaked in wine or liqueur, may be mixed with the rice mixture before moulding, or, if liked, the mould used may be first decorated with some sweet jelly and pieces of fruit; or the rice mixture may be set in a border mould, and mixed fruits piled in the centre. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, 1*. 2d. or glass dish with a lace-edged paper on it, and decorate round with strawberry or fern leaves and a few fresh strawberries. Note.—Do not allow a strawberry cream to remain too long in the mould, as it is apt to dis- colour. Several small moulds may be used instead of one large. A few small pieces of strawberry may be added to the cream mixture if liked. Strawberry jam may be used instead of fresh strawberries. It ought to be warmed slightly before being sieved, and if very thick a little water or fruit juice should be mixed with it. The sugar will not be required, and a little more lemon juice would be an improvement. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. to Is. lOd. 2025. Tea Cream (Creme au The) Make in the same way as Coffee Cream (Recipe 2007), using strong tea in place of coffee. 2023. Snow Eggs (CEufs a la Neige) 1 pt. milk. A pinch of salt. The rind of £ lemon. | inch cinnamon stick. 3 eggs. 1 oz. sugar. A few glace cherries. Put the milk, lemon rind, and cinnamon into a shallow saucepan, and bring them slowly to boiling point. Remove the lemon rind and cinnamon stick. Put the whites of eggs on to a plate and the yolks into a basin. Add a pinch of salt to the whites, and beat them to a very stiff froth. Drop table-spoonfuls of this beaten white into the hot milk, poach them slowly for a few minutes and when firm, lift them on to a dish. Add sugar to the yolks of eggs in the basin, and mix them well together. Dour the milk that is left in the saucepan slowly on to these, stirring all the time; return to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the custard thickens. When the custard is cool, pour it round the snow eggs in the dish, and decorate with a few pieces of glace cherry. Note.—Coffee essence or any other flavouring may be added to the milk. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 7d. or 8 d. 2024. Strawberry Cream (CrSme aux Fraises) 1 lb. strawberries. \ pt. double cream. 3 oz. castor sugar. oz. pink gelatine. 2 table-sps. water. Squeeze of lemon juice. Decorations—Some sweet jelly, strawberries, and pistachio nuts. Take a 1 J-pint mould, ornament it with the above decorations, and put it aside to set. To Make the Cream.—Stalk the strawberries, and rub them with the sugar through a hair sieve. This quantity should make | pint of puree. Put this puree into a basin, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and stand the basin over a saucepan of hot water until the contents are slightly warm. Then proceed as directed for Apricot Cream (Recipe 1994). If white gelatine is used, a few drops of carmine will require to be added. 'When the mixture is ready and almost setting, pour it into the prepared mould, and put it in a cool place until quite firm. When wanted, turn out the cream on to a silver 2026. Tipsy Cake 1 large sponge cake. 1 or 2 glasses sherry. 1 pt. custard. Sweet almonds. Apricot or raspberry jam. Split the sponge cake several times, spread the pieces with jam, and put them back in their original shape. Place it in a glass or china dish, pour the wine over, and let it stand for one hour, basting it occasionally with the wine until all is absorbed. Make a good thick custard, and when cool pour it over the soaked sponge cake. Have the almonds blanched, split, and browned slightly, and stick them here and there all over the cake. Note.—The jam may be omitted, and a little whipped cream may be used for decoration.