486 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD small moulds can be employed, as they do not then come in direct contact with the freezing mixture. Small fancy ice moulds are generally made of pewter, and they are never cheap, from 18s. 6d. per dozen is about the least one will pay for them. They are to be had in a variety of forms, such as flowers, fruit, vegetables, nuts, eggs, balls, &c. These should be filled with an iced mixture suitable in colour to their form, and in the case of fruits, the flavour also should be the same as the fruit re- presented. They must be filled perfectly full, the mixture being well pressed into the form of the mould. Close the moulds and bury them in ice and salt, or put them into an ice cave, until required. Then when turned out they may be touched up with a little colour to make them resemble still further the form they represent. Stalks of fruit and flowers may be represented by small pieces of angelica, or artificial ones may be bought. There are different ways of serving these-little ices; either they may be served on individual ice plates with a tiny lace-paper or some natural leaves under them, or as a garnish to a larger ice; or what makes a very dainty dish is to serve them in a basket made of nougat, or of sugar, or piled up and covered lightly with spun sugar; or, again, a nest may be made of spun sugar, and egg-shaped ices put inside, only these dishes require some skill and should scarcely be attempted by the amateur. ICED SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, PARFAITS, AND BISCUITS These are all very much the same, in fact the names have become almost interchangeable now- adays. They are all very light in texture and differ from the ordinary ice pudding in the fact that they are poured directly into their moulds without any preliminary freezing, and then buried in ice and salt, or put into an ice cave to freeze. The souffle is frozen and served in a souffle case, and an ice cave of some kind is necessary to freeze it as it has no covering to protect it from the ice and salt. A band of paper is tied round the out- Souffte Case with Band of Paper side of the case in order to make it several inches higher, the mixture is then put in, and, when the paper is removed after freezing, the souffle will have the appearance of having risen. The mousse may either be frozen in an ice cave or buried in ice and salt in the same way as an ice pudding. A plain mould such as a bombe is generally best to use, as the mixture, being light in texture, would not readily take the impression of anything very fanciful. A good sauce or a compote or macedoine of fruit is a very usual accompaniment to a mousse. The parfait is the same as a mousse, only it is generally supposed to be richer in cream. Biscuit ices are as a rule served in little paper cases, a parfait or mousse mixture being used. Ice Border Fill a border mould with cold water and set it in the ice cave until frozen hard. Then turn out by dipping the mould in cold water, and use as a support for various fancy ices. The ice border should be dished with a piece of cotton-wool under it to absorb any moisture. The water used may be tinted, rose, green, violet, &c., according to the colour of the ice for which it is to be used. Ice Cups These are made of ice and are used for serving different kinds of ices, but principally sorbets. Either one large cup or small individual cups may be made. Special moulds are required ; these are like double cups, one acting as a lining to the other as it were, with a small space between the two to allow of a layer of water being frozen. Either plain water may be used or water that is slightly coloured, but the colour must be very pale and in keeping with, or forming a pretty contrast to, the ice that is to fill the cup. Three-parts fill the larger of the two cups with the water, place in the lining, fasten it securely down with the clips provided, and freeze in an ice cave for 2 or 3 hours. When re- quired, dip the cup in cold water, carefully remove the lining, loosen the layer of ice now formed on the larger mould with a palette knife, slip it care- fully out, and you have a cup ready for serving any kind of ice you wish. 2222. Neapolitan Ice Creams (Glaces Napolitaines) For these a special box-shaped mould should be used. Then three kinds of ice cream are necessary, of different flavours and different colours. Theso ought to be frozen separately and then packed in equal layers in the box. Cover with the lid and Neapolitan Ice Box freeze again in an ice chest, or, if this is not avail- able, seal up the joins of the mould with lard, wrap in paper, and bury in ice for 1 hour. When wanted, turn out, cut in slices, so that the three different colours show, and serve the ices on ice plates or in little paper cases. Note.—A flat tin biscuit box may sometimes serve the purpose of a Neapolitan ice box, but it should be carefully lined with white writing paper, cut to fit. These ices may be made more fanciful by decorating the slices with a little whipped