RICE, MACARONI, AND NUT DISHES Rice and macaroni are two of our most useful articles of food, and although, thanks to the spread of vege- tarian cookery in this country, they are gaining in popularity, they might still be used to a greater extent, and especially by those who avoid meat in any quantity. Special attention has been paid to them in this section, and that rice can be served in other ways than as a mere adjunct to curry, and macaroni in other forms than the well-known macaroni and cheese, the following pages will show. Many simple and savoury ways of cooking both macaroni and rice are here explained. Within recent years nuts have entered largely into the field of cookery, and in modern vegetarian cookery in particular they play an important part. They can be utilised in the making of many tasty dishes, which require only to be tasted to be appreciated, and the recipes here given will no doubt be suggestive of many others. PART I RICE DISHES the rack above the fire, or on a plate in a moderate oven. While drying, stir lightly with a fork every now and then, to keep the grains separate. RICE There are many different kinds of rice ; those that are best known being the Carolina, Patna, Java, and Rangoon. Patna rice, which is large and pointed in shape, is the best kind for curry, as it is white in colour and retains its form when cooked. Carolina rice is one of the finest and most expensive varieties, and is the best for puddings and shapes. Cooked with milk it is very rich and creamy. Un- polished rice is now considered the best and most hygienic kind to buy, as the process of polishing deprives rice of many of its nutritive properties. Paddy, which is rice with the husk left on, is the most nourishing kind of all. We also get ground rice in different forms, such as ground rice, flour of rice or cream of rice, flaked rice, &c. Rice is one of the most valuable of our starchy foods, and one which is very easily digested. It is also cheap and easily prepared, and lends itself readily to variety in treatment. It is best when eaten along with other food, such as meat, fish, cheese, beans, eggs, &c. 1587. Rice with Cheese 3 oz. rice. 1 gill water, i 3 to 4 oz. grated cheese. 3 gills milk. | 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. Wash the rice and put it into a saucepan with the water. Bring to the boil and simmer until this water is absorbed. Then add the milk and butter, and cook again until the rice is quite soft and tender, stirring occasionally. When ready, remove the saucepan from the fire, add most of the cheese, season rather highly with pepper, salt, and a little made mustard. Now put the rice mixture into a fireproof dish, sprinkle the remainder of the cheese on the top, lay on a few small pieces of butter, and brown in the oven or under the grill of a gas stove. Note.—A beaten egg may be added to the mix- ture if wished. Time to cook, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, 5d. 1588. Rice with Chestnuts \ lb. rice. I Seasoning. | lb. shelled chestnuts. | 1 oz. butter. Stock. 1586. Rice, To Boil for Curries Patna rice is the best to use for curries. It is a long, slender grain, pointed at the ends. Well wash it in several waters until the last water that is poured off looks quite clean. Have ready on the fire a saucepan, three parts full of freshly boiling water, add salt to it in the proportion of one dessert- spoonful to a quart, and throw the rice into this. Boil quickly with the lid off, stirring it frequently with a fork to prevent its sticking to the pan, and also that it may get well tossed about with the water. Cook from 12 to 15 minutes, or until the grains will rub down easily, when one is tested between the finger and thumb. Then strain through a sieve or strainer, run some boiling water over the rice to separate the grains, and dry it, either by putting it back into the saucepan by the side of the fire, or by leaving it on the sieve, which may be placed on Remove the shell and inner brown skin from the chestnuts (Recipe 1625). Wash the rice, put it into a stewpan with enough cold water to cover it, bring to the boil, and strain. Return the rice to the stew- pan, add the butter and chestnuts, and pour in enough stock to cover. Season to taste with pepper and salt, bring to the boil, and then stew slowly by the side of the fire, or in the oven, until both rice and chestnuts are tender and the stock absorbed. Time to cook, § hour. Probable cost, 10d. 1589. Curried Rice 1 cupful Patna rice. 1 onion. 1 or 2 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. curry powder 1 pt. light stock. Salt. Pepper. A pinch of sugar. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Peel the onion and cut it in thin slices or chop it. Melt the butter (or beef dripping may be used) in