BREAKFAST DISHES 387 or dissolved butter, dredge it with flour, and broil as directed on p. 208. Serve very hot with a pat of butter on the top. A little watercress may be used as a garnish. 1679. Smoked Haddock, 1 Aberdeen haddocks are considered the best. Remove the fins and cut the fish in convenient- sized pieces. If very salt, steep it in hot water for a few minutes. Then place the fish on a well- greased baking dish, sprinkle it with pepper, cover with greased paper and bake in a moderate oven from 10 to 15 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Serve the fish very hot and in the dish in which it was cooked. 1680. Smoked Haddock, 2 Trim the fish and cut off the fins. Put it into a frying pan with warm water to cover it, bring it to the boil, and simmer slowly from 10 to 12 minutes, according to the thickness of the fish. Then lift it out, drain, and place it on a hot dish. Put a good piece of butter on the top and stand the dish in the oven or in front of the fire until the butter is melted. Garnish with watercress. This method of cooking is particularly suitable for larger fish and also for fillets of smoked cod or ling. 1681. Smoked or Finnan Haddock Stewed in Milk 1 smoked haddock. I \ oz. flour. Pepper. & pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. | Sippets of toast. Take a smoked haddock weighing about 1 lb., dip it into boiling water for a minute or two, then remove the skin and all fins. Cut the fish in neat- sized pieces, put them into a saucepan with the milk, and simmer slowly until the fish is quite tender. Then lift out the pieces of fish, and keep them hot on a dish. Work the butter and flour together on a plate with a knife, and when thor- oughly blended, add them to the milk in the pan. Stir over the fire, and cook a few minutes. Add a pinch of pepper, and strain this sauce over the fish. Garnish with sippets of toast, and serve hot. egg, and sieve the potatoes. Melt the butter or dripping in a saucepan, and put in the potatoes, fish, and hard-boiled egg. Add the raw yolk of egg, and season to taste with pepper and salt. Mix all to- gether over the fire, and if too dry, add a little milk. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and then form into balls. Flour the hands slightly to prevent the mixture from sticking, and try to make the balls of equal size. Then egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat to a nice brown colour. Drain on kitchen paper, and serve garnished with parsley. 1684. Smoked Haddock Fritters 6 to 8 oz. cooked smoked haddock. \ tea-sp. curry powder. 1 tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Frying batter. Make the frying batter according to directions given in Recipe 1861, mixing the curry powder with the dry flour. If possible, allow this to stand for J hour. Remove all skin and bone from the fish and break it into flakes with a fork, add this to the batter along with the parsley and a good pinch of pepper. Have ready a saucepan of boiling fat, and drop spoonfuls of the mixture into it. Allow them to cook rather slowly until a golden brown colour on all sides. Drain well and serve piled up with a paper under them. Garnish with parsley and some thinly-sliced lemon. Note.—Other kinds of fish may be used in the same way. 1685. Filleted and Fried Herring Fresh herring. | Salt. Lemon juice. | Egg and bread-crumbs. Take the number of herring required, clean them, trim them, and bone them. Then cut them in halves lengthwise, lay the pieces or fillets on a flat dish, sprinkle them with lemon juice and salt and let them lie overnight. Next morning wipe the fillets dry and egg and bread-crumb them (see p. 249). Now fry them until crisp and brown in boiling fat, drain well and serve neatly garnished with parsley and thin slices of lemon. 1682. Smoked Haddock with Egg Sauce 1 smoked haddock. \ pt. egg sauce. | tea-sp. anchovy es- sence. | tea-sp. chopped pars- ley. Take a medium-sized smoked or finnan haddock, and cook it according to directions given in Recipe 1680. When ready, remove the flesh quickly from the bones, break it in flakes and arrange it neatly on a hot dish (a deep china dish will be best). Have ready some good egg sauce (see Recipe 687), add to it the anchovy essence and, when boiling hot, pour it over the fish. Sprinkle the parsley lightly over, and serve very hot. 1683. Smoked Haddock Balls 6 oz. cooked smoked haddock. 6 oz. cooked or sieved potatoes. 1 oz. butter or dripping. 1 hard-boiled egg. Chop the fish finely, being most careful to remove all skin and small bones. Chop also the hard-boiled 1 yolk of egg. A little milk. Pepper. Salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. 1686. Herring Balls 4 lb. cooked herring. lb. cooked potato. 1 or 2 table-sps. sour cream or milk. 1 tea-sp. chopped parsley 1 tea-sp. chopped gher- kin. Pepper. Salt. A little flour. Egg and bread-crumbs. Carefully remove all skin and bone from the herring, then weigh it, and chop it finely. Sieve the potatoes and add them to the fish. Season with parsley, the chopped gherkin or other pickle, pepper and salt. Mix well and bind all together with a little sour cream or milk. Form into small balls, using a little flour to prevent the mixture sticking to the hands, egg and bread-crumb them and fry in boiling fat to a pretty brown colour. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over them and serve with a few pieces of cut lemon. 1687. Kippered Herring The best way to cook these is by broiling or grill- ing. Dip the kippers for a minute in hot water, or if they are very much smoked and salted, they