PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 357 nicely browned, then remove the bread or beans and, if necessary, return to the oven to dry and make crisp the bottom pastry. A few leaves or fancy shapes may be cut out of the trimmings of pastry and baked on a tin separately. These will be found useful for decoration. This pastry case will keep quite well for several days. Put before it is used it may require to be warmed through in the oven to restore its original crispness. When wanted, cover the bottom of the pastry with some nice jam, and decorate it with some leaves or fancy- shaped pieces of pastry. If wanted warm, return all to the oven for a few minutes. (2) Line the dish in the same way as above, trim round the edges, and prick the pastry lining the bottom of the dish with a fork. Then, before laying the band of pastry round the edges, put in the jam, being careful to keep it off the rim. Roll out the trimmings of pastry, and cut off some narrow strips about J inch wide. Twist these and lay them across the tart in a trelliswork pattern. Wet the edges with cold water, and lay a broader band of pastry round, decorating it as above. Bake as before. boiling water, let them boil 3 or 4 minutes, then strain. Put the gooseberries into a basin and add to them, while hot, the flour mixed smoothly with the butter, the sugar and wine. Add a very little spinach green to restore the colour, mix all lightly and stand until cold. Roll out some short crust (Recipe 1439) rather thinly and line a flat greased dish. Prick the pastry with a fork, and put in the prepared gooseberries. Cut some narrow strips of the pastry and lay them across the tart in a lattice-work pattern. Then wet the edges of the dish and put a band of pastry round. Mark or decorate this prettily, brush the pastry over with a little white of egg or water and sugar, and bake in a good oven. Serve hot or cold. Time to bake, about 1 hour. Probable cost. Is. 1531. Ground Rice Tart 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. castor sugar. 2 oz. ground rice. 1 egg. A little milk. Vanilla. £ tea-sp. baking powder. 2 table-sps. jam. Pastry. 1529. Apple Tart with Meringue (Tarte aux Pommos Meringu6e) Short Crust. Apple Mixture. 1 lb. butter. 1 lb. apples (weighed 6 oz. flour. after peeling). 2 oz. cornflour. The rind of I lemon. 1 oz. sugar. J lb. sugar. 1 yolk of egg. 2 or 3 table-sps. water. A squeeze of lemon 2 yolks of eggs. juice. Meringue. Cold water. 3 whites of eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar. First make the short crust with the ingredients given above, and according to directions given in Recipe 1439. Then make with them an open tart (see above) and bake it in a moderate oven until the pastry is brown and crisp. Meanwhile prepare the apple mixture. To Make the Mixture.—Peel the apples, and then weigh them. Slice them thinly, and put them into a stewpan with the sugar, lemon rind, and a very little water. Allow them to stew slowly until quite soft and pulpy, and rub them through a hair or wire sieve. Add to them the two yolks of .eggs, and put the mixture into the pastry case. Meringue.—Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth, sieve the sugar and add it to them ; pile this roughly on the top of the apple pulp and dredge a little sugar over. Return the tart to a slow oven to dry, and brown the meringue. About 15 minutes will be required. This tart may be served hot or cold. Time to bake, about 1 hour in all. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1530. Open Gooseberry Tart (Tarte aux Groseilles) 1 lb. tender gooseberries 1 oz. butter. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. Green colouring. 1 glass white wine. Short crust. 1 dessert-sp. flour. Top and tail the gooseberries, and wash them thoroughly. Throw them into a saucepan of Make an open tart with some short crust or other suitable pastry as directed above, but do not bake it. To Prepare the Mixture.—Cream the butter in a basin until soft and light. Add the sugar and egg, and beat again for a few minutes. Sprinkle in the ground rice, and add enough milk to make the mixture of a consistency that will drop easily from the spoon. Add a few drops of vanilla or any other flavouring preferred, and stir in the baking powder, free from lumps, at the last. Now spread the pastry with some nice jam, and put this mixture on the top. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is brown and crisp, and the mixture firm to the touch. Sprinkle with sugar and serve hot or cold. Note.—The pastry lining the dish should be thin, or it will be inclined to be sodden. Time to bake, \ hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, Is. 1532. Lemon Tart (Tarte au Citron) Short crust or flaky pastry. 1 gill water. 1 oz. cornflour. 2 lemons. 2 eggs. A pinch of salt. 3 oz. sugar. Line a flat dish with pastry as directed for Open Tart, 1 (Recipe 1528), decorate the edges, and bake in the oven until brown and crisp. To Make the Mixture.—Break the cornflour smoothly with the water, put it into a saucepan with the grated rind and the strained juice of the two lemons, and stir over the fire until boiling. Cook for 10 minutes and remove the saucepan from the fire. When slightly cool, stir in 2 oz. of sugar and the yolks of eggs. Spread this mixture over the pastry when it is baked. Beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth with a pinch of salt, add to them the remainder of the sugar, and pile this meringue on the top of the lemon mixture. Dredge with sugar and return the tart to the oven until brown and crisp. Time to bake, about | hour. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d.