FISH 95 Salmon (Saumon) This is the most esteemed of all fish, and has been justly entitled the “ king of fish.” Although gener- ally caught in rivers it is both a salt and a fresh water fish, spending its winter in the sea and its summer in the river. The salmon is of such great commercial value that special laws have been passed to regulate the salmon fishing (see p. 29) and thus rotect the fish. It is illegal to sell fresh salmon uring the close season, although Dutch and other imported salmon may be had all the year round. When choosing salmon, select one with a small head and tail and broad shoulders. The scales should be bright and silvery. To be in perfection salmon should be cooked as soon as possible after it is caught, although it will keep, and be quite good for several days, if put in a very cool place. The more simply fresh salmon is cooked the better ; no other flavour must be permitted to predominate over the fine flavour of the fish itself. Melted butter, when well made, is the best sauce. This does not, however, apply to Dutch or preserved salmon, which is none the worse for being accompanied by a tasty sauce of some kind. Grilse is the name given to young salmon. 242. Salmon, To Boil (Saumon Bouilli) The best parts of salmon for boiling are the head and shoulders or a good middle cut. If not too large it is often boiled whole, but great care is then required in the cooking of it, as the tail end is very apt to become overdone and broken before the thicker parts are ready. Some people say that salmon should be cooked as soon as possible after it is taken from the water, while others declare that it should be kept for some days before being used. Certainly the salmon that is cooked within an hour or two of its being caught possesses a firmness of texture with a creamy curd between the flakes, that is never afterwards obtainable. Boil the salmon according to directions given for Boiling Fish (see p. 78). It must be thoroughly cooked, 10 minutes to the pound and 10 minutes over will be the average time required. The home- grown salmon should be boiled in water and salt only, but the imported salmon will sometimes taste better if it is cooked in a court bouillon, to which a little white wine has been added. No vinegar must be used as it is apt to destroy the colour. Then again the home-grown salmon should be very simply served with a sauce-boat full of the water in which it has been boiled, melted butter, or perhaps a hollandaise sauce, and an accompani- ment of boiled potatoes, dressed cucumber or fresh green peas. Imported salmon, which is sometimes lacking in flavour, may, on the other hand, be served with a more tasty sauce, such as shrimp, oyster, genevoise, hollandaise, &c. When served hot, the fish should be decorated with parsley and lemon, and the dish of salmon will take its name from the sauce which accompanies it. 243. Salmon, To Grill (Tranches de Saumon, Grilles) Slices of salmon. Salad oil or melted butter. Pepper, salt. Cut the salmon in slices about 1 inch in thick- ness, and wipe it with a soft cloth. Dip the slices in salad oil and season them with pepper and salt, or, if salad oil is not at hand, brush them over with melted butter. Make the grill thoroughly hot, grease it well, and cook the fish according to directions given on p. 79. From 12 to 15 minutes will be required for cooking, and the fish should be brushed over occasionally with more salad oil. When ready, transfer it to a hot dish and serve with cut lemon and red pepper. Note.—Grilled salmon may also be served with maitre d’hdtel or anchovy butter on the top of each slice, or the dish may be accompanied with any suitable sauce, such as tartare, horse-radish, bearnaise, &c., and take its name accordingly. 244. Salmon Steaks in Paper (Darnes de Saumon en Papillote) 3 slices of salmon. I 1 dessert-sp. lemon juice. 1 table-sp. butter. I Salt and cayenne. Have the slices of salmon cut about 1 inch thick, and wipe them carefully with a clean cloth. Work together the butter, lemon juice, salt, and cayenne, and brush the slices of salmon over with this. Then put each slice in an oval-shaped piece of white paper, fold over and twist the edges together. Lay them on a greased baking tin and bake in a good oven. Serve very hot in the papers and serve hollandaise sauce separately. Time to bake, about J hour. Sufficient for 3 persons. Sea Bream (Breme de Mer) This is a fine-looking fish, and is caught during the summer and autumn months on the southern and western coasts of England. The flesh is, however, rather coarse in texture and wanting in flavour, and sea bream as a rule are not much esteemed; but if well cooked and tastily served they are by no means bad eating, and they are generally mode- rate in price. They may be stewed, broiled, stuffed, and baked, or filleted and cooked according to any of the directions given for fillets of sole or plaice. The scales of the fish are not generally removed. Skate (Raie) A somewhat ugly fish, not often seen on the fishmonger’s slab in its natural form. It is either Skate sold cut in pieces or crimped and rolled up with some of the liver inside. The flesh should be firm and creamy in appearance. It must always be