COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 40 stand for hours at the side of the fire without cooking. The stock pot itself must be thoroughly washed out and put to air before it is used again. Next day the bones and any pieces of meat of value should be put back into the stock pot along with any fresh scraps there may be ; but not the vegetables if they have boiled for long, as they are valueless. In fact it is a mistake to put too many vegetables into a stock of this kind, as they prevent it keeping so well. Neither should little bits of things be put into the stock pot at odd times; what is not ready when the stock is started should be kept for the next day’s use. The previous day’s stock may also be returned to the stock pot if it is poor in quality and not required for the day’s use. How to Keep Stock If stock has to be kept for some time, or if the weather is very hot, it is really better to make it without vegetables, as it will not turn sour so readily. The flavouring can easily be added when it is about to be used. It should be boiled up every day in summer and every second day in winter, and then poured into clean basins. In households where there are large quantities of stock, the surplus should be made into glaze (see below). To Remove Fat from Stock Have in readiness two iron spoons, a basin of boiling water, a cloth, and a small basin or dish into which to put the fat. Heat the spoons in the boiling water, and use first one and then the other to skim ofl the fat. The spoons, being hot, melt the fat, and make it much more easily removed. When as much as possible has been taken ofl with the spoons, dip the end of the cloth into boiling water and wipe the stock over with this until free from grease. If the stock is not a jelly, pieces of kitchen paper must be passed over the top of it instead of the cloth. Do not remove fat from stock or soup until it is about to be used, as it keeps out the air and helps to preserve it. If the fat is good it may be used for frying pur- poses. Glaze Home-made glaze can be very easily procured in houses where there are large quantities of stock and bones at disposal. Any good brown stock can be used, and the second boiling from meat and bones is almost preferable to freshly-made stock, as it is more gelatinous. Free the stock from all grease, and put at least one quart into a saucepan. Allow this to boil quickly with the lid ofl the pan until reduced to about half a pint, skimming when neces- sary. Then strain through a very fine strainer or piece of muslin, and reduce again in a smaller sauce- pan until the glaze becomes as thick as treacle, when it will be ready for use. If not required at once it should be poured into a jar, and if a little melted lard is poured over the surface the glaze will keep good for weeks. A little glaze is useful at all times for enriching soups and sauces as well as for coating meat, &e., and, diluted with water, it will again take the form of stock. To use glaze, see p. 2JO. To Sieve or Tammy Soup Always when sieving have two spoons in readi- ness, one to do the rubbing through, and the other for scraping the sieve underneath. For most soups Sieving Soup wooden spoons are to be preferred to iron ones, or a wooden presser may be used instead of one of the spoons. Stand the sieve with the narrow rim uppermost and within a basin. The basin must not be so small that the sieve covers the rim. Pour a small quantity of the mixture on the top of the sieve and commence the running through. Put two fingers on the bowl of the spoon and rub through with the edge. Moisten the mix- ture with some of the liquid part of the soup when necessary, and Wooden Presser from time to time remove what adheres to the lower side of the sieve with the second spoon. As little as possible should be left on the top of the sieve when finished, and upon the patient rubbing through the success of the soup will depend. In the case of a meat puree it will simplify the work if the meat is pounded in a mortar with a little of the liquid before sieving. Sieves should be well washed and brushed after use, and dried in a warm or airy place, but not too near a fire. If a particularly smooth soup is desired, it should be tammied instead of sieved, in the same way as a sauce is tammied. To Add Eggs and Cream to Soup When a whole egg is added to soup to enrich it, it should be beaten up with a fork, put into the soup tureen, and the hot soup poured gradually on to it, stirring all the time. If the yolk of the egg only is used, it should be beaten up with a table-spoonful of milk or water and added in the same way. When yolks of egg and cream are used for thicken- ing (a liaison), they should be beaten together, then the saucepan containing the soup should be drawn to the side of the fire where it will no longer boil, and the eggs and cream strained into it, stirring all the time. Then reheat very carefully, not ceas- ing to stir, and do not boil again or the soup will curdle.