464 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 2100. Compote oi Quinces Quinces. Water. Sugar. Wash the quinces, peel them, cut them in quarters and remove the cores. Throw the pieces of quince into a saucepan of cold water and let them lie until wanted. Put the skins and cores into a saucepan with cold water to cover them, and allow them to boil at least | hour. Strain through a fine sieve or piece of muslin and return the liquid to a saucepan along with 1 cupful of sugar to each pint. Bring to the boil and skim if necessary. Drain the pieces of quince, put them into the hot syrup, and stew slowly until tender. Then put them on a dish and pour the syrup over. Note.—A little wine may be added if wished. 2101. Strawberries and Cream it la Chantilly 1 lb. strawberries. 1 glass kirsch. Juice £ lemon. Sugar. 1 gill double crea Vanilla. Pick and wash the strawberries carefully. Small ones are best, but, if large, cut them in pieces. Put them into a glass bowl or dish, pour over the kirsch or some other liqueur, and the juice of £ lemon. Sprinkle well with sugar and stand in a 'very cold place, or on ice for preference, at least J hour. Then whip the cream until thick, flavour with vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Pile this on the top of the strawberries and decorate with small strawberries and, if liked, a few chopped pistachio nuts. Note.—This may be served in small individual cups if preferred. 2102. Strawberries a. la Cecil (Fraises a la Cecil) Choose small strawberries, wild ones by prefer- ence, and allow them to soak for 1 home in strained orange juice and sugar to taste. Serve in small cups with a little whipped cream on the top. 2103. Dried Fruits Delightful salads and compotes can be made from dried fruit, when fresh fruit is not obtainable. Quite a variety of these fruits is now on the mar- kets, besides the ordinary figs and prunes, such as apricots, peaches, pears, &c., and a mixture of the various kinds is also sold which is excellent for making a winter salad. Dried fruit should be well washed before using, then soaked overnight with sufficient cold water to cover it. Next day it should be slowly stewed or steamed with a syrup made of the water in which the fruit was soaked, and sugar in the proportion of | lb. to each pint of liquid, or according to taste. A little lemon juiee or rind may be added, also some nuts and wine if wished. 2104. Frosted Currants J lb. currants. I 1 table-sp. water. 1 white of egg. I Castor sugar. Either red or white currants may be chosen, but they should be fine and large for this purpose. Dust them lightly and break them into little bunches, removing any that are not perfectly sound. Sieve some sugar on to paper, and warm it without allowing it to melt. Beat up the white of egg and add the water to it. Dip the currants first into the egg and then into the sugar, shake them gently and place them on a paper to dry. Serve them piled up on a crystal or china dish. These make a very pretty dessert. Small grapes may be frosted in the same way. FRUIT SALADS General Notes Almost any kind of fruit may be employed in the making of a salad, such as strawberries, rasp- berries, white, red, or black currants, grapes, oranges, bananas, apples, pears, apricots, peaches, &c. In -winter, when fresh fruit is scarce, the tinned varieties will form a very welcome addition. The salad may be composed of a variety of fruits accord- ing to the season of the year, or merely of one or two fruits. Sometimes a small quantity of nuts, grated cocoanut, shred almonds or pistachio nuts, or chopped walnuts is mixed with the fruit. Fresh fruit must be dry and perfectly ripe—hard, unripe morsels will spoil any salad. It must be carefully prepared, and cut in convenient-sized pieces. Oranges should be skinned, every par- ticle of white pith removed from them, cut in thin slices, or divided in sections, and the pips taken out. Plums peeled, cut in halves or quarters, and the stones removed. Small grapes may be used whole, but the larger ones should be cut in two and have the seeds removed. Bananas, apples, pears, &c., should be peeled and cut in dice or in thin slices. Currants and berries must be carefully stalked and washed if necessary. All the cutting of the fruit must be done with a silver knife. The dressing of a fruit salad is generally com- posed of a syrup, made of sugar and water, with some wine or fruit juice added, or merely a sprink- ling of sugar with fruit juice or wine. The juicy fruits will require less liquid than the drier kinds. The kind of wine used is very much a matter of taste. For a salad composed principally of light-coloured fruits, such as apricots, peaches, pine-apple, pears, &c., it is better to use a light sweet wine; for strawberries, raspberries, and the darker fruits a red wine may be chosen, while the addition of a small quantity of liqueur is an improvement to any fruit salad. A fruit salad may be served either in a salad bowl, or in small glass cups with a vine or fern leaf under them. It should be allowed to stand some time after the dressing is poured over it; and the colder it is kept the better. It may be used either as a first course at luncheon or as a dessert. The following recipes are merely suggestive, and variety need only be limited by individual means and the material at disposal. For fruit salads with savoury dressing, see under Salads, p. 176. 2105. Mixed Fruit Salad, Winter (Salade de Fruits) £ lb. grapes (black or white). 2 bananas. 1 apple. 2 tangerine oranges. 1 cupful tinned apricots or pine-apple. 2 table-sps. chopped walnuts. | doz. glace cherries. Dressing. I lb. sugar. 1 gill water. 1 gill fruit syrup. Juice of 1 lemon. Wine or liqueur. Prepare the fruit carefully (see above), cut it in convenient-sized pieces, and mix it in a salad bowl.