232 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 927. Curry of Kidneys (Rognons de Mouton en Kari) 4 or 5 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. 1 dessert-sp. rice flour. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 1 table-sp. cream. 1 small onion. 1 small apple. | pt. stock. A little chutney. Salt. Pepper. A squeeze of lemon juice. Boiled rice. Split and skin the kidneys and remove the hard tat from the centre. Melt the butter in a small stewpan or earthenware casserole, put in the kidneys and cook them for a few minutes. Skin and slice the onion very thinly, peel and chop the apple and put these two into the stewpan with the kidney. Fry for a few minutes, then add the rice flour, curry powder, chutney, pepper, salt, and lemon juice. Mix well and pour in the stock. Allow the kidneys to stew slowly in this sauce until they are quite tender. Add the cream at the last and serve with boiled rice. Note.—Veal kidney may be used instead of sheep’s, but it will take rather a longer time to cook. Time to cook, \ to £- hour. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. 928. Sheep’s Kidneys, Sautes (Rognons de Mouton Sautes) 3 or 4 sheep’s kidneys. 1 oz. butter. -J tea-sp. flour. 1 gill stock. 2 table-sps. sherry. Seasoning. 1 shallot. Lemon juice. Split the kidneys, remove the skin and fatty part from the centre, and cut them in slices. Melt the butter in a small stewpan and put in the shallot finely chopped, or 1 tea-spoonful of chopped onion, and fry it slightly. Then add the kidney, season with pepper and salt and toss over the fire about 5 minutes. Mix in the flour and add the sherry, stock, and lemon juice. Cook a few minutes longer and serve at once, garnished with small croutons of fried bread. Notes.—The wine may be omitted and a few chopped mushrooms may be added. For other recipes for cooking kidneys, see under Calf’s and Ox Kidney. Time to cook, 10 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, Is. to Is. 6d. 929. Sheep’s Liver and Bacon 1 lb. sheep’s liver. 4 to 6 oz. sliced bacon. Alittle flour. Seasoning. 1 cupful stock or water. 1 dessert-sp. mushroom ketchup. Wash the liver in salt and •water, then drain and dry it in a towel. Now cut it in slices about J inch in thickness and season the pieces with a little pepper and salt. Remove all rind and rust from the bacon and cut it in convenient-sized pieces. Heat a frying pan slightly, fry the pieces of bacon until clear and crisp, and keep them warm whilst cooking the liver. Coat the slices of liver quickly with flour and fry them in the fat left from the bacon. The flouring must not be done until the last minute, or the coating on the liver will become damp and sodden. Fry the liver first on one side and then on the other until both are crisp and brown. A little extra fat must be added if necessary. Then, before removing it from the pan, cut one piece with a knife to see that it is sufficiently cooked in the centre. When ready, arrange the pieces neatly on a hot dish and place the bacon on the top. Then leave about 1 tea- spoonful of melted fat in the pan, add to it 1 tea- spoonful of flour and mix it in until quite smooth. Pour on the stock or water and stir until boiling. Skim well, season to taste, and strain this sauce round the dish. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost. Id. to 9d. 930. Gateau of Liver (Gateau de Foie) | lb. calf’s or sheep’s liver. 1| oz. butter. l| oz. fat bacon. 1 table - sp. chopped onion. 1 tea-sp. lemon juice. Salt. Pepper. \ tea-sp. ground ginger. | tea-sp. ground nutmeg. 3 eggs. 1 gill brown sauce. 1 glass sherry or Mar- sala. Cut the bacon in small pieces and melt it in a saucepan with the butter. Wash and dry the liver, cut it in small pieces and put it into the melted fat along with the chopped onion. Season with pepper, salt, the ginger and nutmeg, and fry all together for a few minutes, or until the liver has lost its raw appearance and the onion has become slightly browned. Then turn the contents of the sauce- pan on to a plate to cool. When just lukewarm, pound the mixture in a mortar, adding the brown sauce (which should be cold and rather thick) by degrees. When the whole is reduced to a paste, rub it through a sieve. Put this puree into a basin, add the wine, lemon juice, and yolks of eggs. Mix well and taste if sufficiently seasoned. Lastly, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stirring them in lightly. Pour the mixture into a well- greased mould, cover with greased paper, and steam au bain marie until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out and serve with piquante or Madeira sauce poured round. Time to cook, about 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 6d. 931. Lamb’s Sweetbreads, Fried (Ris d’Agneau Frit) 1 lb. lamb’s sweetbreads. A little flour. Seasoning. Egg and bread-crumbs. Rolls of bacon. Lemon. Gravy. First wash the sweetbreads thoroughly, then let them soak in cold water for an hour or so and wash again. Now place them in a lined stewpan with enough cold water to cover them, bring them to the boil, skim if necessary, and then simmer slowly from 10 to 15 minutes. At the end of this time lift the sweetbreads out and press them between two dishes until cold. Then toss them in flour seasoned with pepper and salt, and egg and bread- crumb them neatly. Fry them in hot fat to a golden brown colour, and serve garnished with cut lemon or rolls of bacon. A little good gravy or sauce may be served separately.