562 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD until the mixture looks light and full of air-bubbles. Add most of the almonds, blanched and finely shred, the baking powder, and flavouring, and pour out on a shallow tin that has been lined with paper. Sprinkle the remainder of the almonds on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until brown and firm to the touch. When the cake is ready, turn it out on a sheet of sugared paper, and when cold, cut it in neat slices with a very sharp kmfe. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 2681. Little Apricot Cakes Cake Mixture. Filling. 4 eggs. 1 gill apricot puree. 4 oz. flour. 1 gill double cream. 6 oz. sugar. J oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 drops carmine. Decoration—Glace or fondant icing—silver dragees. To Make the Cakes.—Put the eggs and sugar into a basin, and whip them over hot water until fight and frothy, and the mixture begins to hang on the end of the whisk. Then remove the basin to the table and continue beating the mixture until the mixture is cold. Have the flour warmed and sieved, and mix it in very lightly at the last. Three parts fill small prepared moulds (see p. 550) with the mixture, and bake in a good oven until nicely browned and firm to the touch. Little peach- shaped moulds are the best to use, as the cakes will then be of a convenient shape for filling. When the cakes are ready, turn them out carefully and allow them to cool. To Make the Filling.—Make the puree by rub- bing tinned apricots through a hair sieve, using just a little of the syrup along with the fruit. Warm the puree slightly, and add to it the gelatine dissolved in a little water. Whip the cream, and stir it lightly into the pured, and sweeten if neces- sary. Add two or three drops of carmine, and use the mixture when it is just setting. To Finish the Cakes.—Make a slit at the bottom of the cakes, scoop out some of the centre, fill up with the cream mixture and close them up again. Coat the cakes with glace or fondant icing flavoured with noyeau or any other flavouring preferred, and decorate with leaves of pale green icing and small silver balls, or according to taste. Place the cakes in paper cases, and use them as a dessert sweet or for afternoon tea. Time to bake, 12 to 15 minutes. Probable cost, Id. to 1 \d. each. 2682. Barcelona Slices Cake Mixture. 2 oz. Vienna flour. \ lb. castor sugar. & lb. shelled Barcelona nuts. 4 eggs. Filling. 1 gill double cream. 1 table-sp. sugar 2 table-sps. chopped nuts. A few drops vanilla essence. Decoration—Coffee glace icing, glazed Barcelona nuts, angelica. To Make the Cake Mixture.—Place the shelled nuts on a tin, and roast them in the oven for a few minutes to improve the flavour. Then rub them on the top of a sieve to remove the brown skin. Grind the prepared nuts in a nut-mill or pound them until fine in a mortar. Then put them into a basin with the sugar and yolks of eggs, and cream well together with a wooden spoon or whisk. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth in another basin, and add them alternately with the flour until all is in. Mix very lightly, turning the mixture over and over until all is thoroughly blended. Spread out on a flat tin lined with paper, and bake in a moderate oven until well risen and firm to the touch. When ready, turn out on a sheet of sugared paper to cool. To Make the Filling.—Whip the cream until thick, add the sugar and chopped nuts, slightly toasted, and flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla. To Glaze the Nuts.—Boil J lb. loaf sugar and 2 tablespoonfuls of water together until they just turn brown. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and remove the saucepan from the fire. Dip in the nuts, and lift them quickly on to an oiled plate or wired stand to cool and dry. To Finish the Slices.—Cut the cake into neat slices or fancy-shaped pieces. Then split them and put some of the cream filling between like a sandwich. Coat them with coffee glace icing (Recipe 2840), and decorate with glazed Barcelona nuts and small leaves of angelica. Note.—Walnuts or almonds may be used instead of the Barcelona nuts. Time to bake, 20 to 30 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 6d. 2683. Bath Buns 1 lb. flour. 6 oz. butter. 1 oz. German yeast. 1 gill warm milk. 1 lb. sugar. 4 eggs. 2 or 3 oz. candied peel. Rind of 1 lemon. Some coarse sugar. Sieve the flour into a warm basin, rub in the butter until free from lumps, and then make a well in the centre. Cream the yeast with a tea-spoonful of the sugar, add to it the warm milk, and strain into the centre of the flour. Add also the eggs, mix all the ingredients gradually, and then beat well until smooth and fight. Cover the basin and put it in a warm place until the dough is well risen, about 11 hours. Then add the remainder of the castor sugar, grated lemon rind, and candied peel finely chopped, and mix them well in. Make up the dough into small buns, putting them on a greased and floured tin, and place them in a warm place to “ prove ” for a few minutes. Then brush them over with beaten egg and sprinkle them with coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Bake the buns in a good oven until nicely browned and thoroughly cooked. Time to bake, 15 to 20 minutes. Probable cost, Is. 4d. 2684. Chapel Windows Genoese pastry in three Raspberry or apricot colours. jam. Almond paste. Cut the three colours of Genoese pastry in slices of an equal thickness (about 1 inch) and of the same size. Spread them with some nice jam, and place them one on the top of the other. Press well, and with a sharp knife cut in slices of the same thickness as the slices of Genoese pastry. Spread