COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 458 coated, on a baking tin, and dry them a few minutes in a cool oven. Meanwhile chop some angelica and mix it with a few crystallised rose leaves. Sprinkle the apricots with this mixture, and serve them piled up on a pretty dessert dish. 2067. Meringued Oranges (Oranges Merlngu&s) 6 oranges. Red-currant jelly. Whipped cream. Meringue. 3 whites of eggs. \ lb. castor sugar. Peel the oranges, remove as much of the white pith as possible, and place them on a waxed or oiled baking tin. Make the meringue mixture accord- ing to directions given above, and put it into a forcing bag with a fancy pipe at the end of it. Then proceed in the same way as for Meringued Apples. 2068. Meringued Peaches (Peches Meringu6es) 6 or 8 pieces tinned peach. Slices of sponge cake. Preserved ginger. 2 whites of eggs. 2 table-sps. castor sugar. A few drops vanilla. Granulated sugar. Cut as many round slices of sponge cake as there are pieces of peach. They should not be more than half an inch in thickness and slightly larger than the peach. Hollow out the rounds of sponge cake very slightly in the middle, and stand a piece of peach on each, the hollow side uppermost. Fill the hollows with small pieces of preserved ginger and then proceed to make the meringue with the whites of eggs and sugar as directed in Recipe 2063. When ready, flavour with a few drops of vanilla, and pile some on the top of each peach, covering cake and fruit entirely. Sprinkle with granulated sugar and then cook them. Place the meringued peaches in a slow oven until lightly browned. They ought to be in the oven at least 10 minutes before the browning begins. Lift carefully and place on a lace-edged paper. Serve either hot or cold. Notes.—Other preserved fruits may be used instead of ginger, and the peach may be sprinkled with a little brandy or liqueur. Pears may be used instead of peaches, the sponge cake being cut in a form to suit. of scissors, and when set turn out. Whip the cream until thick, add the sugar and flavouring, and drain on a sieve for a short time. Then fill the little moulds with it, put a thin strip of angelica over each for a handle, and decorate with chopped pistachio nuts or crystallised violets. 2070. Peaches a la Chantilly (Peches & la Chantilly) 1 tin of peaches. Genoese pastry or sponge cake. Peach marmalade. 1 small glass sherry < liqueur. £ pt. double cream. Sugar. Vanilla. A few cherries. Angelica. The Foundation.—Take a round of Genoese pastry or sponge cake about the size of a des- sert plate and 2 or 3 inches in thickness. (This should be at least one day old.) Split it in two, and spread a good layer of peach marmalade between the slices. Sprinkle with the wine or liqueur, and allow this to soak for £ hour or so, keeping it in as cool a place as possible. Peach Marmalade.—Take two or three halves, or any broken pieces of peaches, and boil them in a saucepan with a little of their syrup until reduced to a thickish paste. Care must be taken that this does not burn. Flavour with a little rum or liqueur, and use when cold. The Peaches.—Drain them from the syrup, and place them on ice or in a very cold place. A short time before they are required, decorate the rounded side with a piece of cherry in the centre and leaves of angelica round. The Cream.—-Whip the cream, sweeten it to taste with a little castor sugar, and flavour with a few drops of vanilla. To Finish.—Put the cream into a forcing bag with a large fancy pipe at the end, and force it out in a dome in the centre of the round of cake. Arrange the peaches round the edges of the round, one leaning against the other. Sauce.—If liked, the remainder of the syrup from the peaches may be reduced, coloured pink, flavoured to taste, and poured round. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. Probable cost, 2s. 4d. 2069. Nougat Baskets with Chantilly Cream (Petits Nougats & la Chantilly) l lb. castor sugar. | lb. sweet almonds. 1 table-sp. lemon juice. J pt. thick cream. 1 oz. sugar. J tea-sp. powdered vanilla. Decorations. Angelica, pistachio nuts, crystallised violets. Blanch and chop the almonds, but not too finely. Put them on a baking tin, and brown them slightly in the oven, turning them over occasionally, so that they may take colour on all sides. Put the sugar into an iron saucepan or sugar boiler, add the lemon, and melt slowly over the fire. Then boil quickly until of a light brown colour. Stir in the prepared almonds, and remove from the fire. Pour this nougat mixture on to an oiled slab, and work out first with an oiled palette knife and then with a rolling-pin until as thin as possible. Have ready greased some small basket-shaped moulds. Cut small pieces from the nougat paste, and line the moulds with it. Trim round the edges with a pair 2071. Pears a la Celestine (Poires a la Celestine) \ doz. pears. | lb. sugar. f pt. water. Juice of £ lemon. Stewed rice. 1 gill apricot puree or marmalade. A few preserved fruits. 2 or 3 drops of carmine. Choose medium-sized pears, peel them, but leave them whole. Make a syrup with the sugar, water, and lemon juice, and cook the pears in this until they are tender. Lift them out and allow them to cool slightly. Then cut a good slice off each lengthwise to about one-third of the depth of the pear. Scoop out the inside, and fill up with a mixture of fruits, either fresh or preserved, cut in very small pieces and bound together with a little thick apricot puree (made by rubbing some tinned apricots through a sieve). Cover with the pieces of pear cut off, so as to give the pear its original shape. Have ready prepared some nicely stewed rice, sweetened and flavoured to taste, and to which the yolk of an egg or a little cream has been