176 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD Fish too, and shellfish, such as salmon, halibut, sole, cod, lobster, oysters, &c., are very delicious utilised in this way, while eggs, nuts, and even fruit help to give variety. THE PREPARATION OF SALAD VEGETABLES When cooked vegetables are used for a salad they should be firm and never pulpy, so that they retain their form or can be cut in pieces. All green vegetables should be young and crisp, and should be carefully washed in cold water to free them from dust and insects. The main thing to observe in the washing of green vegetables, such as lettuce, endive, cress, &c., is to handle them very lightly; if too much touched their crispness is destroyed. It is also important to have the vegetables well dried after washing; if any water is left on them the dressing will not adhere, but will run to the bottom of the dish and both salad and dressing will be poor. Green salad vegetables should be shaken in a sieve or wire basket first and then tossed lightly in a cloth. To prepare lettuce for a salad cut oS the root and remove any coarse and discoloured outside leaves, and trim away any decayed parts from the inside ones. Separate the rest of the leaves one from the other, and throw them into a basin of fresh cold water. Wash lightly in this, and then take a second clean cold water, and wash again. If rather limp, let the lettuce soak for half an hour or so in cold water, but do not do this if it can be avoided, then shake as dry as possible in a sieve or wire basket, and toss lightly in a towel. The larger leaves of the lettuce may be cut across in fine shreds with a knife, and the smaller ones used as a garnish. Many people object to use a knife and prefer to tear the leaves in pieces with the fingers, but if a sharp knife is used, and it is quickly and lightly done, it really does no harm, and the lettuce looks much better. Endive may be pre- pared in the same way as lettuce. Mustard and cress should be washed in several waters until all the black, seeds and grit are removed. If rather limp, soak for half an hour in cold water, then shake well on a sieve, and spread on a cloth to dry. Watercress, from the nature of its growth, requires most careful cleansing, or it may prove most harmful. Remove all fibres and decayed leaves from the stalks. Then wash carefully in several waters, and shake it dry. To prepare radishes, wash them well in cold water, rubbing off all black with the fingers. If large, they may be scrubbed with a brush and the tops cut off. Dry in a towel. These may be served whole or cut in thin slices. Cut the roots off Spring onions, part of the green tops and the outside skin. Then wash well, allowing the water to run between the leaves. Dry in a cloth and serve whole or cut in thin slices. To prepare other vegetables for a salad see under the special headings. Basket for draining Salad THE DRESSING AND SERVING OF SALADS A salad should be served as cold as possible, and, as a rule, the dressing should not be mixed with it until shortly before it is to be eaten. A special spoon and fork made of bone, horn, wood, glass, or ivory, should be used for mixing in the dressing, as silver or other metal is apt to promote verdigris. The dressing itself may be made sometime before- hand, especially one that is made with yolks of eSS3’ as this will take no harm by standing, but it must be kept in a cool place or on ice until wanted. Although exact quantities have been given for the various salad dressings (see p. 192), diver- sity of taste must always be considered. There are two typical salad dressings, i.e. vinaigrette sauce or French dressing, made of oil and vinegar with seasonings, and mayonnaise sauce. The former is the simpler of the two, and the one most frequently used on the Continent. Mayon- naise is, as a rule, more appreciated by English people. A French dressing is always better for a salad that is to be served along with another dish such as a roast, and always for a light green salad, for which a cream or egg dressing would be too heavy ; but for meat, fish, lobster, and the heavier salads a mayonnaise or other egg dressing is gener- ally used, as these are, as a rule, served as a separate course and not as an accompaniment to another dish. Never use any but the best oil for salad dress- ings, and if not using it frequently, buy it in small bottles, as it soon becomes rancid. Keep it also in a cool, dark place. Cream may always be sub- stituted for oil, and even sour cream will make an excellent dressing. The quality and flavour of the vinegar is also a matter of great importance in salad-making, and one which is not sufficiently attended to. The French wine vinegars are the best when they are obtainable. The variety of ways in which a salad may be garnished is endless, and although special garnishes have been suggested in the following recipes, these can always be altered to suit individual taste and according to the ingredients at hand. Above all things avoid over-decoration, and do not give the salad the appearance of having been much handled. A salad may either be served in a salad bowl, a glass dish, or in one of the various fancy china dishes now on the market. It is also very customary to serve individual salads in small scallop-shaped dishes, allowing one for each person. 636. Apple and Celery Salad (Salade de Pommes et de C61eri) 2 or 3 apples. 1 head celery. 1 or 2 gherkins. Salad dressing. Coralline pepper. A little lettuce. Use the white inner portion of the celery. Wash it, cut it in fine shreds, and let it lie in cold water for at least hour. Then drain and dry it well in a cloth. Choose sharp, juicy apples. Peel, core, and with a silver knife cut them in very thin slices. Put the celery and apple into a basin, pour over enough salad dressing (Recipe 748) to moisten them and mix together very lightly. Line