544 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD fork, but do not make them too frothy. Heat the milk in a small saucepan, and, when almost boiling, pour it on to the egg, &c., stirring all the time. Serve hot. Note.—The wine may be omitted. The yolk of egg only may be used, and soda water instead of milk. Probable cost, 3d. 2600. Egg Flip 1 white of egg. 1 gill hot milk. A little sugar. Beat up the white of egg to a white froth, but do not make it too stiff. Put it into a tumbler and pour the hot milk gradually on to it, stirring all the time. A little sugar may be added if wished, or, if preferred, a pinch of salt or a pinch of pepper. Probable cost, l^d. 2601. Egg Nog 1 egg. 1 table-sp. sherry. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. Put the yolk of egg and sugar into a small basin and mix them together until of a creamy consis- tency. Then add the wine, and lastly the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth. Mix lightly but thoroughly, and serve in a glass. Brandy or rum may be used instead of the sherry. 2602. Egg and Rum 1 tea-cupful milk. 1 table-sp. rum. 1 dessert-sp. sugar. A pinch of salt. A pinch of nutmeg. 1 yolk of egg. Put the yolk of egg, rum, sugar, salt, and nutmeg into a cup or small basin, and beat them together with a fork. Add the milk, either warm or cold, and mix all together. Pour into a tumbler and serve. This is very good in cases of exhaustion. Probable cost, 2\d. 2603. Milk Gruel 1 table-sp. oatmeal. I A good pinch of salt or J pt. milk. I 1 tea-sp. sugar. Tut the oatmeal and milk into a basin, and mix them together. Cover the basin with a plate or piece of paper, and let it stand at least J an horn, stirring now and then. Then strain off the milk into a small lined saucepan, pressing the oatmeal as dry as possible. Stir this over the fire until boiling, and simmer slowly for 10 minutes. If too thick, a little more milk may be added. Season with salt or sugar according to taste. A small piece of butter may also be added at the last, and wine or brandy if desired. Gruel must be served very hot. Note.—Oatmeal powder may be used instead of the ordinary oatmeal, in this case the gruel would be made as in Recipe 2588. Probable cost, 2d. 2604. Water Gruel Make in the same way as milk gruel (see above), using water instead of milk. A little cream may be served with the gruel. 2605. Beef-tea Gruel 1 table-sp. fine oatmeal. 1 1 gill beef-tea. 1 gill of cold water or milk I Salt. Make the gruel with the oatmeal and water, or milk, as above. When cooked, add to it the beef- tea, and stir until quite hot, but do not boil again. Season to taste, and serve hot. Time to cook, 10 minutes after soaking. Prob- able cost, 4d. 2606. Gum Arabic Milk 1 oz. gum arabic. | 2 table-sps. warm water. £ pt. milk. I Only the best picked gum arabic must be used. Soak it first in the water for several hours, then boil the milk and pour it on to it. Put all into a jug or jar, and stand in a saucepan of hot water until the gum is quite dissolved. Add sugar or salt, and a little flavouring, if liked. Strain before using. Probable cost, 2d. 2607. Gum Arabic Water 1 oz. gum arabic. 1 pt. water. 2 oz. sugar candy. Put all in a jar, and place in a saucepan of boiling water. Stir occasionally until dissolved, and strain before using. Serve hot, to relieve a cough or tickling of the throat. 2608. Ice, To Keep and Serve. Ice should be kept wrapped in a clean piece of flannel and put in a colander placed over a basin, so that the water can drain off as the ice melts. It should not be exposed to the air, neither should it be allowed to soak in water, or it will waste quickly. Only the purest ice must be given to an invalid, and, when being bought, the purpose for which it is required should be stated. To break it, pierce it with an ordinary hat-pin, strong darn- ing needle or ice pick. Ice should be given to a patient in very small pieces and in a silver tea- spoon. Tie a piece of muslin over a glass or tea- cup and place a few pieces on the top, or use a small tea strainer. 2609. Iceland Moss This can be used in the same way as Irish moss. Iceland moss is a lichen, which grows on barren rocks, principally in northern latitudes. It con- tains an acid which gives it an unpleasantly bitter taste. A pinch of soda added to the water in which it is soaked will help to counteract this. Like Irish moss, it is given to people suffering from chest complaints. 2610. Irish Moss Drink 1 oz. Irish moss. I Lemon juice. 2 qts. cold water. | Sugar. Wash the Irish moss well, and soak it for several hours in cold water. Then lift it out of this water, and put it into a saucepan with the 2 quarts of cold