PASTRY AND PASTRY DISHES 347 1484. Cold Meat Pasty | lb. cooked meat. I Dripping crust or rough- 1 gill brown sauce. j pufi pastry. To Prepare the Meat.—Trim the meat and mince it finely, using if possible a mixture of a little ham or tongue along with some fresh meat. Moisten the meat with a little brown or other good and well-flavoured sauce, and see that it is nicely seasoned. The mixture must be cold and not too liquid. To Make the Pasty.—Make some dripping crust, rough-puff, or other plain pastry, roll it out and cut out two rounds the size of a dinner plate and about J inch in thickness. Grease a tin or strong ware dinner plate, line it with one of the pieces of pastry, and prick the pastry at the foot" with a fork. Put in the meat mixture and wet the edge of the pastry with cold water. Cover with the other round of pastry and press the edges well together. Mark round prettily with the back of a knife and flute the edges. Then make a hole in the centre and brush over with beaten egg. The pastry may be* further decorated with a few leaves or twists of pastry. Bake in a good oven until the pastry is well browned and thoroughly cooked. Serve hot and cut across in triangular- shaped pieces. Time to bake, J to § hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 2d. 1485. Veal and Ham Pasty £ lb. cooked veal. 3 or 4 oz. cooked ham or bacon. | pt. white sauce. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. Rind of 1 lemon. 1 dessert-sp. chopped parsley. Grated nutmeg. Seasoning. Rough-puff or flaky pastry. Cut the veal and ham in small pieces, or, if they are very scrappy, put them through the mincing machine. Have ready about \ pint of good white sauce of a fairly thick consistency, mix the prepared meat with this and season with grated lemon rind, a little nutmeg, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Cut the hard-boiled eggs in slices and allow these and the meat mixture to be quite cold before using them. Now make and finish the pasty as directed in previous recipe. Time to bake, § to 1 hour. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Probable cost, Is. 8d. to 2s. 1486. Veal and Rice Pie £ lb. cooked veal. 1 cupful cooked rice. 1 cupful white sauce. 3 table-sps. grated cheese Seasoning. Raised pie-crust. A few browned bread- crumbs. Trim the veal and mince it very finely. Mix it in a basin with the rice, which has been well cooked, in stock if possible, without being too moist. Add the grated cheese and seasoning, and moisten with about a cupful of good white sauce. Make a raised pie-crust as directed in Recipe 1445, and roll it out thinly. Grease a plain mould or basin (1J pint size), coat it with fine browned bread-crumbs, and then line it with the crust. Trim round the edges with a pair of scissors, allowing the crust to project about £ inch. Fill up with the veal and rice mix- ture and cover with a round of pastry, wetting the two edges before pressing them together. The mould should be well filled, but flat on the top. ’ Make a small hole with a skewer in the middle, and bake in a good oven. When thoroughly cooked, turn out carefully and serve on a hot dish with a dish paper under it. Garnish with parsley, and serve tomato or any brown sauce separately. Time to bake, 1 to 1J hours. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 1487. Rabbit PSt4 (Pat6 de Lapin) 1 large rabbit, f lb. fleshy veal. | lb. bacon. 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs. Seasoning. Marinade. 2 glasses white wine. 2 table-sps. wine vinegar. 2 table-sps. salad oil. 1 carrot. 1 onion. A bunch of herbs. Pastry. 1£ lbs. flour. J lb. butter. | lb. lard. 1 egg- 1 dessert-sp. salt. Cold water. Jelly Stock. 1 calf’s foot. 1 lb. shin of beef. Bones from rabbit. Flavouring vegetables. This pate is somewhat troublesome to make, but it is excellent for eating cold, and well repays the trouble. It must be commenced at least two days before it is required. To Prepare the Meat for Filling the Pate.—First remove all the flesh from the bones of the rabbit, and cut it in small pieces. Put this meat into a pie dish or deep dish with the bacon and veal cut in small pieces, and a good seasoning of pepper and salt. Pour over the wine, oil, and vinegar, add the bunch of herbs and the carrot and onion cut in thin slices, cover and stand overnight. To Make the Jelly Stock.—Wash and break up the bones of the rabbit, put them into a saucepan with the shin of beef cut in small pieces and a blanched calf’s foot or | an ox foot. Cover well with cold water, add a tea-spoonful of salt and bring slowly to the boil. Then skim, add small pieces of vegetable to flavour, and allow the stock to simmer slowly from 4 to 5 hours. Skim when necessary, in order to keep the liquid very clear, and strain through muslin when sufficiently cooked. This should be a jelly when cold. To Make the Patty.—Make the pastry according to directions given for Raised Pie Crust (Recipe 1445), and roll it out to J of an inch in thickness. Then take a long-shaped tin, 3 to 4 inches in depth, grease it and line it with the pastry, reserving enough to cover the top. Remove the meat from the marinade and put it into the lined tin, place the eggs in a line down the middle. One or two truffles may also be added if wished, or a little chopped gherkin. Cover the meat with another piece of pastry, sealing the two edges of pastry well together. Brush over with beaten egg, make two or three small holes in the top, and decorate with some fancy-shaped pieces of pastry. To Cook and Finish.—Bake the pate in a moderate oven for 2 hours, then allow it to remain in a cool oven for 1 hour longer, or until the meat feels quite tender when tested with a skewer. Allow it to cool, then fill up with jelly