142 COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 471. Celery Souffle (Souffle de Celeri) | lb. white celery. | pt. milk. 1 bay-leaf. 1 shallot. A few parsley stalks. 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 2 table-sps. grated Par- mesan. Seasoning. 2 or 3 eggs. Prepare the celery carefully, using only the white part. Cut it in small pieces and put it into a sauce- pan with the milk, shallot, bay-leaf, and parsley, and simmer slowly until tender. Then strain off 1 gill of milk and rub the celery with the remainder of the liquid through a hair or fine wire sieve, keep- ing back the bay-leaf and parsley. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and cook it a minute or two, then add the gill of milk and stir until the mixture begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Now add the celery puree, grated cheese, yolks of eggs, and seasoning, and mix well. Beat up the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and stir them in very lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a greased souffle dish and bake in a good oven until well risen and firm to the touch. Note.—If preferred the mixture may be baked in small souffle dishes or paper cases. Time to bake, about 20 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Celeriac (Celeri Rave) This vegetable is only gradually coming into popularity in this country, although it is much used abroad. It is also called the turnip-rooted celery on account of its resemblance to a turnip, although it is very much rougher looking. It has the same flavour and is a variety of the ordinary celery Celeriac plant, only the root, which has become very much enlarged, is the edible part and not the stalks. Por cooking purposes celeriac is almost better than the stalk celery, as it has the same fine flavour and is less stringy. Besides the recipes given below it can be cooked according to any of the recipes given for cooking turnips. It is also very good cooked and served as a salad. 472. Celeriac or Celery Root with Egg Sauce (Celeri Rave a la Sauce aux CEufs) 1 or 2 celery roots. Boiling water. \ pt. egg sauce. To Prepare the Celeriac.—Wash and brush the celeriac, peel off the outside skin and any brown parts, cut it in small square pieces and let it soak in cold water for \ hour. To Cook.—Have ready on the fire a saucepan with enough boiling water to cover the celeriac, and add salt in the proportion of 1 dessert-spoonfui to the quart. Drain the celeriac and throw it in, and cook slowly until tender, then drain, reserving the water in which it was cooked. Make an egg- sauce (Recipe 687), using some of the water in which the vegetable is cooked as liquid, add the celeriac to it and make it thoroughly hot. Serve with some hard boiled and sieved yolk of egg sprinkled over it. Notes.—Other white sauces may be used in the same way, or the celeriac may be stewed in stock and served with brown or tomato sauce. It is also very good served au gratin (see Cauliflower au Gratin, Recipe 455), or scalloped (see Scalloped i Parsnips, Recipe 529). Celeriac is a very good accompaniment to duck or chicken. Time to cook, £ to 1 horn. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 473. Puree of Celeriac (Puree de Celeri Rave) 1 root celeriac. I 2 or 3 table-sps. white 1 oz. butter. Seasoning. | sauce. Prepare the celeriac as directed above, cut it in small pieces and cook in boiling salted water until tender. Then strain, drain the pieces of celeriac well and rub them through a sieve. Add this puree to 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of good white sauce, making the mixture more or less stiff accord- ing to the purpose for which it is required. Add the butter and season to taste with pepper, salt, and a small pinch of nutmeg. This puree may be served as an accompaniment to various meat dishes, or as a garnish for entrees. Chicory (Endive-Escarole) This is another form of endive called also the Batavian endive. The leaves are tied up and Chicory blanched in the same way as celery. It is a very wholesome \egetable, being particularly good for