192 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD PART III stirring all the time, and then pour in the vinegar. A little tarragon vinegar may be added. Cream may be substituted for the oil. COLD SAUCES AND SAVOURY BUTTERS SALAD DRESSINGS 748. 1. French Dressing (Sauce Vinaigrette) 2 table-sps. salad oil. I White pepper. Salt. 1 table-sp. vinegar. I £ tea-sp. made mustard. This dressing is frequently made at table in or over the salad bowl. If it is prepared beforehand it should not be poured over the salad until the time of serving. Mix the salt, pepper, and mustard together,.and add the oil gradually. When these are well blended and the salt dissolved, add the vinegar. A pinch of cayenne and a little sugar may be added. Sometimes a tea-spoonful of tarragon vinegar is put in, and by some people more oil is preferred. Note.—'When the mixing is done at table, a thin oil and vinegar bottle is useful. 749. 2. Salad Dressing 2 hard-boiled yolks. J tea-sp. made mustard. White pepper and salt. A pinch of cayenne. A pinch of sugar. 3 table-sps. salad oil or cream. 2 table-sps. vinegar. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. Rub the hard-boiled yolks through a sieve, and put them into a basin with the seasoning. Mix well together, and add the oil gradually, stirring all the time. Then add the vinegar, a little at a time, and mix well. The sauce should be of the consistency of cream. Note.—If the dressing is to be used for fish or lobster salad, a tea-spoonful of anchovy or shrimp essence is an improvement. The hard-boiled whites of eggs may be shred and used as a garnish for the salad. 750. 3. Potato Dressing 2 table-sps. boiled and sieved potatoes. 3 table-sps. salad oil. White pepper and salt. Put the potato into a and mix well together. 1 table-sp. vinegar. J tea-sp. made mustard. A pinch of sugar. basin with the seasoning, Add the oil gradually. 751.] Cucumber Sauce, Cold (Sauce aux Concombres) 1 cucumber. 1 tea-sp. grated onion. Seasoning. 2 table-sps. thick cream. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. Peel the cucumber and let it soak in cold water for half an hour. Then grate it and allow the pulp to drain thoroughly on a sieve. When well drained, mix the pulp in a basin with the grated onion, seasoning, and tarragon vinegar. Whip the cream and stir it in very lightly at the last. Serve with broiled or cold fish, or cold mutton. 752. Horse-radish Sauce, Cold (Sauce au Raifort) 1 stick of horse-radish. 1 table-sp. vinegar. 1 tea-sp. castor sugar. J tea-sp. made mustard. 1 gill cream or 2 table- sps. milk and 1 table- sp. bread-crumbs. Wash and scrape the horse-radish, and allow it to he in cold water for a short time. Then grate down as much’as possible on a grater. Put it into a basin, and mix in the seasonings very thoroughly. Whip the cream slightly and add it last, mixing it in lightly. Keep the sauce in a very cool place until it is required. Sour cream can very well ba used instead of fresh cream, or if neither is available use a little milk mixed with very fine bread-crumbs. Lemon juice may be used instead of vinegar. 753. Sauce Mayonnaise 2 yolks of eggs. About 1 gill salad oil. 1 dessert-sp. white vine- gar. 1 dessert-sp. tarragon vinegar. 1 tea-sp. chilli vinegar. J tea-sp. made mustard. | tea-sp. salt. A pinch of sugar. A pinch of cayenne. Take a basin large enough to hold 1| pints (the size of the basin is important), and twist round the bottom of it a cloth wrung out of very cold water to keep it steady and cool while mixing the sauce. Divide the yolks very carefully from the whites of the egg, and put them into the basin with the pepper, salt, mustard, and sugar. (The sugar may be omitted if not liked.) Mix these well together