298 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD rugged. Deer should be from 4 to 5 years old to be in first-rate condition. The finest joint for roasting is the haunch. The loin and neck are also good roasting pieces. Leg of Deer 1. Old . 2. Young The shoulder and breast are better stewed or made into a ragout. Chops are usually cut from the loin or neck, and steaks from the leg. 1216. Roast Haunch of Venison (Quartier ou Cuissot de Chevreuil Roti) The haunch is considered the finest piece of venison for roasting, and a plentiful supply of firm white fat is an indication of good quality. Before roasting, saw off the knuckle bone and .wipe the meat over with a damp cloth, or wash it quickly without allowing it to lie in water. Then dry it well with a clean cloth. Brush it over with melted fat or dripping, and wrap it in a sheet of well-greased paper. Now cover this again with a paste made of flour and water. If the haunch is a large one, about 3 lbs. of flour will be required. Make this into a stiffish paste with cold water, and roll out \ inch of thickness. Wrap the meat in this, and again cover it with a sheet of greased paper. Fasten it on with string, or use small clips, and the venison is ready for roasting. These preliminaries are necessary in order to preserve the fat from burning before the lean of the meat is ready. The fat is considered a great delicacy. Roast the venison according to General Directions for Roasting (see p. 207),and keep it well basted. A haunch will require from 4 to 5 hours to roast; it should be rather underdone. About 20 minutes before it is ready, remove the covering of paper and paste, dredge the meat with flour, and return it to the oven to brown, basting it with butter. Serve very hot. This is very important, because if the fat of the venison is not eaten absolutely hot it is spoilt. A good brown gravy or sauce flavoured with red wine, and red- currant, gooseberry, or cranberry jelly should be served separately. A puree of chestnuts (see Recipe 1628) and a salad are very suitable accom- paniments. 1217. Saddle of Venison a l’Allemande (Selle de Chevreuil a 1’Allemande A saddle of venison. Larding bacon. Salt. 2 oz. butter. 2 cupfuls sour cream. 1 dessert-sp. flour. A little water. Take a small saddle of well-hung venison weigh- ing about 6 lbs. ; remove the skin, wipe it well with a damp cloth, and then dry it. Lard it with long, thin strips of larding bacon, making at least four rows the length of the saddle (see Larding, p. 205). Now season the meat with salt, and tie it in a neat shape with three lengths of tape put round the saddle. Then roast the venison in a good oven, basting it with the butter. As soon as it is brown, pour the sour cream into the roasting tin and use it for basting with for the rest of the time. When ready, place the joint on a very hot dish, remove the tapes, and keep it hot. Remove any grease from the top of the gravy, add to it the flour, broken with a little cold water, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Thin down the sauce to a proper consistency with boiling water, and cook it a few minutes longer. Strain a little of the sauce over the meat, and serve the rest separately in a sauce boat. A green salad and a compote of fruit should accompany this dish. Time to cook, 1 to 1J hours. 1218. Cold Venison with Aspic Take a small leg of venison, wipe it carefully and then lard it rather thickly (see p. 205). Cover it with thickly greased paper and then roast it, allowing 20 minutes to the pound and 20 minutes over. Baste the joint frequently with dripping while it is cooking, and do not allow it to become dry. When ready, remove the meat from the oven and allow it to cool slowly. Then carve as much as is likely to be required in thin slices, and put these back in place without spoiling the appear- ance of the joint. Now give the venison a good coating of glaze and allow this to set. Then place the joint on a clean dish and decorate with aspic jelly, either chopped or cut in fancy-shaped croutons (Recipe 1309). Picked and seasoned watercress and small leaves of lettuce may also be used to garnish. Fruit sauce (Recipe 797), or a tasty salad, would be good accompaniments. Note.—A small loin of venison might be prepared in the same way. 1219. Venison Steaks, Broiled Choose the steaks from the leg if possible, and have them cut from £ to 1 inch in thickness. Trim them neatly, and make them a convenient size for serving. If there is any doubt as to the veni- son being tender, soak the steaks in a little salad oil and lemon juice for an hour or so before cook- ing, and then drain. In any case, coat them on both sides with salad oil, and then do not cook them until the last minute, as a venison steak is utterly spoilt if it has to be kept hot, the meat becoming tough and almost uneatable. Broil them in the usual way (see p. 208), turning them often, and allow rather longer than for a beef-steak. When ready, lift on to a very hot dish, season with pepper and salt, and put a good pat of maitre d’hotel butter (Recipe 770) on the top of each, or a pat of butter mixed with red or black currant jelly. Cover and send to table at once. Fried potatoes should be served separately. 1220. Venison Steaks in the Pan Have the steaks cut as in last recipe. When required, heat a small quantity of butter in a saute or frying pan, put in the steaks, and turn them once or twice until sufficiently cooked. When ready, pour 1- glass sherry over them, season