167 VEGETABLES AND SALADS croutons of fried bread, place them on a dish paper on a hot dish with a stuffed tomato on the top of each and garnish with parsley. A little brown or tomato sauce may be served separately. Note.—The above stuffing may be varied accord- ing to taste and the materials to hand. The meat may be omitted and a few chopped mushrooms or grated cheese added. Or, well cooked rice or macaroni, cut small and mixed with a little sauce or beaten egg and well seasoned, may be used. Or again, any nicely cooked vegetable, such as green peas, asparagus points, cauliflower, &c., if mixed with some tasty sauce and the yolk of an egg will make a very good filling. Time to bake, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. 586. Stuffed Tomatoes, 2 Make a small hole in the stalk end of the tomatoes and press them gently to get rid of the liquid and seeds from the centre. Place them on a well- greased dish or tin. Season. Fill the centre with a little chopped mushroom and shallot cooked in butter and mixed with a few bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, and seasoning. Pile the stuffing high in the centre, sprinkle with bread-crumbs and a few drops of oil or melted butter, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. 587. Tomatoes with Cream Sauce (Tomates a la Creme) y 3 or 4 firm tomatoes. Salt, pepper. A little butter. Croutons of bread. | gill cream. 1 gill milk. 1 table-sp. flour. Choose large firm tomatoes, wipe them and cut them in halves. Put them on a greased baking dish with the cut side uppermost, lay a small piece of butter on the top of each and season them with pepper and salt. Then bake the tomatoes in a moderate oven until they are soft without being broken. Place each half on a round crouton of fried bread and keep them warm. Add the flour to the liquid in the baking dish and mix it in smoothly, then pour in the milk and cream and stir until boiling. Simmer a few minutes and then strain this sauce round the tomatoes. Time to bake, about 15 minutes. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. 588. Tomatoes with Curried Rice (Tomates au Kari) 6 tomatoes. Salad oil. Seasoning. 3 oz. rice. Some light stock. 1 tea-sp. curry powder. 2 or 3 table-sps. brown gravy. Choose large firm tomatoes, wipe them, remove the stalks and cut them in halves transversely. Squeeze out the seeds and watery part from the centre, and arrange the pieces on a greased fire- proof dish. Season them with pepper and salt, sprinkle with a little salad oil, and cook in amoderate oven about ten minutes. Wash the rice and cook it in light stock until tender and without making it too moist. Season with the curry powder and a little salt if necessary. Fill the tomatoes with the curried rice, sprinkle them with some good brown gravy, pouring the remainder round, and return the dish to the oven for a few minutes. Serve the tomatoes on the dish on which they have been cooked. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 589. Tomatoes & la Franpaise (Tomates & la Franpaise) 6 small ripe tomatoes. 1 cupful white or becha- mel sauce. A few browned bread or biscuit crumbs. A little butter. Wipe the tomatoes, remove the stalks, and peel them according to directions given in Recipe 583. Grease J dozen small china or earthenware dishes and put a little sauce at the bottom of each. Place a tomato on the top with more sauce over and sprinkle a few crumbs on the top. Lay a small piece of butter on the top of each and bake in a moderate oven until the tomatoes feel tender when tested with a skewer. Serve the tomatoes in the dishes in which they are cooked as a separate course at dinner, or as a supper or luncheon dish. Time to cook, 10 to 15 minutes. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 590. Tomatoes a la Portugaise (Tomates & la Portugaise) 6 tomatoes. 1 oz. butter. 1 table-sp. chopped onion. Seasoning. 3 oz. rice. 1 cupful light stock. 2 table-sps. grated cheese. First prepare the rice mixture for filling the tomatoes. Wash the rice and dry it well. Melt the butter in a saucepan, put in the chopped onion and fry it until lightly browned. Add the rice and cook it a few minutes without allowing it to take colour. Then pour in the stock, season to taste, cover the saucepan and cook in the oven until the rice is tender and the stock absorbed. Wipe the tomatoes, cut a slice off the stalk end of each and scoop out the soft inside. Fill up with the rich mixture, piling it high in the centre. Sprinkle with grated cheese, put a small piece of butter on the top of each tomato and cook in a moderate oven from 12 to 15 minutes. Serve hot, garnished with parsley. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 591. Tomato Souffle (Souffll do Tomates) 1 lb. tomatoes. 2 oz. butter. 2 or 3 eggs. 107. potato or cornflour. A bunch of herbs. Seasoning. 1 gill milk. 1 onion. Wipe the tomatoes and cut them in slices. Put them into a saucepan with 1 oz. of butter, the onion thinly sliced, a small bunch of herbs and a little pepper and salt. Put the lid on the pan and stew slowly until the tomatoes are quite soft. The contents of the saucepan must be stirred occasionally to prevent them sticking. When ready, remove the herbs and rub the tomatoes through a fine wire sieve. Then melt the other ounce of butter in a saucepan, add the potato or cornflour and mix it in smoothly; pour in the tomato puree and stir until the mixture no longer sticks to the saucepan. Add the yolks of eggs one at a time and more seasoning if necessary, and mix all together. Lastly, add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stirring them in very lightly. Pour the mixture into a well-greased