COOKERY FOR EYERY HOUSEHOLD 548 2637. Egg in Gravy 1 egg. I or gravy. 2 table-sps. good stock 1 ltable-sp.bread-crumbs Take a small fireproof dish and pour the gravy or stock boiling hot into it. Break in the egg, season to taste, and sprinkle the bread-crumbs on the top. Bake in a good oven about 5 minutes and serve very hot. Time to bake, 5 minutes. Probable cost, 2d. to 3d. 2638. Prairie Oyster Put into a small cup or glass \ a tea-spoonful of vinegar and a pinch of salt. Then break into it a very fresh egg, and let it be swallowed whole. This is considered one of the lightest ways of serv- ing an egg. If preferred, the yolk only of the egg may be used. 2639. Peptonised Milk | pt. fresh milk. | pt. water. 2 tea-sps. of Liquor pancreaticus. £ a level tea-sp. bi- carbonate of soda. Mix the milk with the water, and warm in a saucepan to a temperature of about 140° Fahrenheit, or as hot as can be tasted without burningthe mouth, or half the milk may be brought to the boil, and then added to the other half cold. Pour into a jug or basin,and stir in the soda and Liquor pancreaticus (Benger’s). Cover over to keep out any dust, and keep in a warm place or under a tea-cosy. In most cases it is best to allow the digestive process to go on from 10 to 20 minutes, according to the degree of peptonisation or predigestion desired. Partially peptonised milk is scarcely distinguishable from ordinary new milk, and it is very much more easily digested. As the process of peptonisation goes on, a slight bitterness is developed which is unobjectionable to many palates. A few trials will indicate the limit most acceptable to the in- dividual patient. As soon as this is reached, the milk, if not required by the patient at once, must be boiled up to prevent the further action of the Liquor pancreaticus. It will then keep like ordin- ary milk. If peptonised milk is consumed as soon as the process is carried far enough, it need not undergo any final boiling. In fact, it is better to use it without boiling, because then the half- finished process of digestion will go on for a time in the stomach. Note.—The practical rule for guidance in pep- tonising milk, or any milk food, is to allow the process to go on until a perceptible bitterness is developed, and not until it is unpleasantly pro- nounced. In peptonising these it is important not to carry the process so far as to render them un- palatable. The extent of the peptonising process can be regulated either by increasing or diminish- ing the quantity of the Liquor pancreaticus, or by increasing or diminishing the time dining which it is allowed to act upon the food. 2640. Peptonised Gruel, Arrowroot, &c. 1 pt. gruel. I 2 tea-sps. Benger’s | Liquor pancreaticus. The gruel should be well boiled, and made very thick in the same way as Water Gruel. Pour into a jug, and let it cool down to a lukewarm temperature, not exceeding 140° Fahrenheit (60° Centigrade). Add to it the Liquor pancreaticus, and mix it well in ; cover the jug, and keep it warm as before. Stand from £ bom to I hour, then bring to the boiling point, and strain. The action of the Liquor pancreaticus on gruel is twofold : the starch of the meal is converted into sugar, and the albuminoid matters are peptonised. The conver- sion of the starch into sugar causes the gruel, however thick it may have been at starting, to become quite thin. Note.—The gruel need not necessarily be made of - oatmeal; it may be prepared from any of the numerous farinaceous articles in common use— such as wheaten flour, arrowroot, sago, pearl barley, tapioca, pea or lentil flour, &c. Whichever is used, it must be thoroughly cooked, and then cooled down before the extract is added to it. 2641. Peptonised Milk Gruel \ pt. thick gruel. 2 tea-sps. Benger’s Liquor pancreaticus. J pt. new milk. A pinch of bi-carbonate of soda. First prepare a good thick gruel from any of the farinaceous articles. Add to the gruel while still boiling hot an equal quantity of cold milk. The mixture will then be of the required temperature. Add the Liquor pancreaticus and the soda in the above proportions. Pour it into a jug, cover over, and keep in a warm place for § an hour. Then boil for a few minutes, and strain. Note.—This is a complete and highly nutritious food for weak digestions. The slight bitterness of the digested milk is almost completely covered in the peptonised milk gruel, and invalids take it much more readily than peptonised milk. 2642. Peptonised Beef-Tea £ lb. lean, juicy beef. I 1 table-sp. of Benger’s 1 pt. cold water. | Liquor pancreaticus. Shred down the meat finely, put it into a lined saucepan with the cold water, and simmer very slowly for H hours. Then pour it into a jug, and let it cool down to a lukewarm temperature not exceeding 140° Fahrenheit. Add to it the Liquor pancreaticus in the above proportions, and stir it well in. Cover the jug, and keep warm for about 2 hours, stirring occasionally. At the end of this time bring it to the boil, and strain off the liquid part ready for use. 2643. Peptonised Beef-tea Jelly \ pt. peptonised beef- I J oz. French sheet gela- tea. | tine, or £ oz. isinglass. Thebeef-teamust first be boiled to stop the pepton- ising process, or the extract would act upon the gelatine and dissolve it also. Then strain it, and return to the saucepan with the above proportion of gelatine or isinglass. Stir over the fire until this is dissolved. Pour into a small mould or basin that has been rinsed out with cold water, and keep in a cool place, or on ice, until set. Then turn out, and serve cold.