SANDWICHES, SAVOURY AND SWEET The word “ sandwich” is supposed to have originated with John Montague, 4th Earl of Sandwich, who, to avoid being interrupted by meals, used to have slices of bread and butter, with meat between, brought to him at his gaming table. The term has now a much wider meaning than formerly; it includes not only the plain sandwich, consisting of slices of meat placed between two pieces of buttered bread, cut in varying degrees of thick- ness, but also many dainty trifles suitable for afternoon teas and other light refreshments. The variety of these little sandwiches is endless, and the following hints and recipes are merely sug- gestive. Clever fingers and a little ingenuity will soon invent many others. SOME PRELIMINARIES Sandwiches may be made of white or brown bread, small rolls, various kinds of biscuits, toast or pastry, filled with meat, salad, eggs, fish, flavoured butter, nuts, &c., and made up in a variety of ways. There are also the sweet sand- wiches, which can be filled with fresh fruit, pre- served fruit, jam, honey, cream, &c. When Bread is used, it should be a day old and fine in texture. New bread that is full of holes and crumbly does not cut well. A square sand- wich loaf is best for white bread, and Hovis, Bermaline, or other fine makes for brown. If Rolls are preferred they must be quite fresh and small, and with a soft crust. The little finger-shaped ones are neatest, and are very easy to arrange. There are many kinds of plain Biscuits which can be utilised for making sandwiches, and they make a nice change from the usual bread-and- butter species. The plain water, milk, wheaten, and Parmesan are all suitable; in fact, any kind which is unsweetened and not too crumbly. Toast, when it is used for this purpose, must be thin, well made, and not too crisp. Slices of pastry can also be employed, and are especially suitable for evening refreshments. Any good pastry may be cut in strips or rounds, baked in the oven and allowed to cool, then split open to receive the sandwich mixture. The Butter used for sandwiches must be very good, and of a consistency that will spread easily on the bread without crumbling it to pieces. If hard, it should be creamed first, or worked on a plate with a knife until it is soft enough to use. The knife may be dipped in boiling water occa- sionally, so as to make the butter less hard. Instead of plain butter one of the savoury butters given on pp. 193-4 may be used. The bread should be buttered first, and then cut. The Meat used must be free from all skin, gristle, and a superabundance of fat. In most cases it is better to mince the meat and mix it with its special seasonings before placing it on the bread, unless a more substantial sandwich is wanted for travellers or sportsmen, when it can be sliced. Fish too is better either chopped or pounded to a paste, and Salads should be cut in small pieces. As will be seen in the following recipes, a little well-flavoured sauce or a little cream is sometimes mixed with the meat or fish, especially when it is dry, in order to bind all together. The various kinds of potted meat now on the market are all most useful for sandwich-making, and these can either be combined with the butter, or put on as a separate layer. Sandwiches may be cut in various shapes— square, triangular, oblong, or diamond, while different fancy shapes may be stamped out with a cutter, although the latter method is apt to be wasteful unless the scraps can be otherwise used up. Very dainty little sandwiches can also be made by spreading a tasty mixture on thin bread and then rolling it up, instead of putting a second piece of bread on the top. The thickness and size of the sandwiches will depend upon the purpose for which they are to be used. For afternoon tea they must be cut very thin, and nothing of a substantial nature must be offered, as it would take away the appetite for dinner which follows so shortly after. For evening refreshments they may be made more substantia], and still more so if they are to serve as a substitute for meat. Neatness and exactitude in the cutting are very necessary to the appearance of the sand- wiches, and the filling used should be just moist enough to spread easily. If made too moist, they will be difficult to handle. Sandwiches should be served on a pretty serviette or lace-edged paper, and may be decorated with a little parsley, small cress, tomato, &c., according to their kind. When several different kinds of sandwiches are served at receptions, the different dishes should bear a ticket or label with the name. Little tickets in the form of a flag can be bought for the purpose. If bread sandwiches have to be kept for any length of time, they should be wrapped in a piece of damp muslin and placed in a tin box in a cool place. When required for travelling, they should be wrapped in a thin piece of damp muslin and then in grease-proof paper.