COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD 43G a small piece of butter at the last, which will give 1 or 2 eggs. 2 or 3 table-sps. sugar. well, and let it remain until set. Then spread some clotted cream over the top, and sprinkle with castor sugar. When well made, junket should cut into smooth shiny slices like jelly. Unlike jelly, it will set better and more quickly in a room of ordinary temperature than in a cold larder. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1949. Dutch Flummery 3 gills water. 1 gill sherry or iaisin wine. 2 yolks of eggs. f- oz. gelatine. 6 oz. loaf sugar. 2 lemons. Wipe the lemons and peel off the rind very thinly. Put it into a lined saucepan with the sugar, water, and gelatine, and stand by the side of the fire until the sugar and gelatine are melted and the flavour extracted from the lemon. Then add the wine and the juice of the lemons, and make the mixture very hot. Beat up the yolks of eggs in a basin and strain the hot liquid on to them, stirring all the time. Return all to the saucepan, and stir carefully over the fire until the yolks thicken as in a custard. The flummery must on no account boil. Strain again into the basin, and when cool pour into a wet mould and set aside until firm. When required, turn out and serve in a glass dish. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, lOd. to Is. 1950. Genoa Cream 2 oz. ground rice. 1 pt. milk. 1 oz. butter. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. A little flavouring. 3 or 4 drops carmine. 2 table-sps. jam. Some pink cocoanut. Mix the ground rice smoothly with a little of the milk, and put the remainder of the milk and the butter into a saucepan. When hot, pom- them on t® the ground rice, stirring all the time, and then return all to the saucepan. Stir over the fire until boiling, and then simmer slowly for 10 minutes or until the ground rice is thoroughly cooked. Re- move the saucepan from the fire and add the sugar, flavouring, and enough carmine to make it a pale pink colour. Now put the jam into a glass dish, and, when the rice mixture has cooled, pour it over it. Sprinkle the top with pink cocoa- nut, and serve cold. This is a pretty and simple dish for children. Note.—A little whipped cream piled on the top is an improvement. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost, 8d. 1951. Ground Rice Mould 2 oz. ground rice. 1 pt. milk. Flavouring. 1 or 2 table-sps. sugar. A pinch of salt. A small piece of butter. Put the ground rice into a basin and mix it with a little of the milk. Heat the remainder of the milk in a saucepan and pour it on to the rice, stirring all the time. Return all to the sauce- pan, and stir over the fire until boiling. Simmer slowly for 10 minutes, or until the rice is thoroughly cooked. Sweeten and flavour to taste, and stir in the mixture a creamy taste. Turn the mixture into a wet mould to set, and when firm turn out and serve with jam, stewed fruit, or a custard or fruit sauce. Note.—The mould may be made richer by having a beaten egg stirred into the mixture before pouring it into the mould. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 4d. 1952. Gooseberry Fool 2 lbs. gooseberries. | 1 gill custard, i lb. sugar. 1 gill water. | 1 gill cream. Top and tail the gooseberries, wash them and put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar. Cook them until they are quite soft, and then rub them through a fine sieve. Mix the custard and cream with the puree, and serve in a glass bowl or in custard glasses with a spoonful of whipped cream on the top. Note.—The custard may be omitted and all cream used or vice versa. Milk is sometimes used, but it is rather poor. Other fruit purees may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 6 persons. Probable cost. Is. 2cl. 1953. 1 pt. milk. oz. gelatine. 2 or 3 eggs. Honeycomb Mould Flavouring. 2 oz. sugar. 2 table-sps. water. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs, sugar, and milk (see Recipe 794), and sweeten and flavour it to taste. Add to it the gelatine dissolved in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of water, and allow the mixture to cool. Beat up the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and stir them in lightly at the last. Pour the mixture into a wet mould and put it in a cool place to set. Turn out when wanted. A little red currant or gooseberry jelly may be served separately. Sufficient for 3 or 4 persons. Probable cost, 6d. 1954. Hydropathic Pudding White bread. Custard sauce. 1 lb. red currants. 1 cupful water. 4 to 6 oz. sugar. Strip all stalks from the currants and wash them if necessary. Put them into a stewpan with the water and sugar, and stew them until quite tender. Meanwhile line a lj-pint basin with white bread, cutting a round for the bottom and wedge-shaped pieces to fit round the sides. (The bread should be cut about \ inch thick.) Fill up the basin with the stewed fruit, cover with another round of bread and put a plate and a weight on the top. Allow the pudding to stand until next day. Then turn out and serve with custard sauce or cream. Notes.—The pudding should look quite red. If the bread shows white, it has been cut too thick, or there has not been sufficient juice to soak it. Raspberries or black currants may be used in the same way. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Probable cost. Id. 1955. Lemon or Orange Mould 4 oz. butter. 2 oz. cornflour. Wipe the lemons or oranges, and peel the rind off them as thinly as possible. Put it into a 2 lemons or oranges. 1 pt. water.