4l STOCKS AND SOUPS To Serve Soup Soup must always be served very hot; this is very important, and both soup tureen and plates should be carefully heated beforehand. No grease should be left floating on the top of the soup, but should be removed or absorbed in the making. Soup should be sufficiently seasoned before it is sent to table, but not overmuch so. A thick soup or pur6e must not be too thick, it is not meant to be like porridge, but of a nice creamy consistency. When croutons of toast or fried bread are served with soup, they should be placed on a small dish or plate with a dessert paper under them. For directions for making these see Recipe 1301. Grated cheese, when served as an accompani- ment, should also be placed on a small dish with a paper under it. The same with powdered mint, which generally accompanies pea soup; it must always be served separately as many people object to it. PART II PLAIN SOUPS FOR FAMILY USE (1) MEAT SOUPS AND BROTHS Note.—Some of the following meat soups may appear somewhat expensive for ordinary family use, but it must be remembered that the meat used is very often served as a separate dish, or else the soup is so substantial in itself that it might almost take the place of a meat dish. 1. Baked Soup 1 lb. lean beef. 2 qts. cold water. 1 teacupful split peas. $ teacupful rice. 2 tomatoes. 1 onion. 1 carrot. Salt, pepper. This soup is cooked in the oven instead of on the top of the stove, and it is a very tasty way of pre- paring it. Wash the peas, and if possible soak them overnight in a pint of the water. Next day, cut the meat in small pieces and put it into a large jar or saucepan with all the other ingredients—the soaked peas and the remainder of the water, the rice well washed, vegetables cut in pieces, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Cover closely and cook in a moderate oven until the meat and vege- tables are quite tender. Serve all together. If the soup pot is an earthenware one it may be served in the pot. Note.—This soup may be very much varied. Different kinds of meat may be used, and the peas may be omitted and other kinds of vegetables added according to season. Time to cook, 3 to 4 hours. Probable cost, Is. 2d. Quantity, 3 pints. 2. Beef Soup with Marrow Balls 2 lbs. shin of beef. About 2 qts. cold water. 2 onions. 2 carrots. 1 turnip. Choose a piece of meat with the marrow bone. Take out the marrow and reserve if for making the 3 or 4 sticks of celery. 2 or 3 leeks. A bunch of herbs. Salt. Marrow balls. balls. Wipe the meat and place it in a saucepan with cold water to cover it. Bring it slowly to the boil, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, the bunch of herbs (see p. 36), and the vegetables carefully prepared and cut in rough pieces. Put the lid on the sauce- pan and simmer slowly until the meat is tender. When ready, strain the soup into a clean saucepan, remove all grease from the top, and add more seasoning if necessary. Make the marrow balls according to Recipe 1292, drop them into the boil- ing soup and boil them 6 minutes. Then serve. Notes.—The meat and vegetables may be served as a separate course, or used again to make a second stock. Small suet dumplings (Recipe 1297) may be served in the soup instead of the marrow balls. Time to cook, 2\ to 3 hours. Probable cost, Is. 6d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 3. Bone Soup (Bouillon d’Os) 3 lbs. uncooked bones. 2 qts. cold water. 1 carrot, turnip, and onion. 2 sticks of celery. A bunch of herbs. Salt to taste. 2 oz. dripping. 10 black peppercorns. 2 or 3 cloves. 1 table-sp. ketchup. 1 table-sp. flour or crushed tapioca. This soup must be commenced the day before it is wanted. Wash the bones quickly, dry and break or saw them in small pieces. Melt the dripping in a large saucepan,‘and when smoking hot put in the bones and vegetables prepared and cut in pieces. Fry them a good brown colour, turning them over and over with an iron spoon. When ready pour in the cold water and bring to the boil. Skim well and add salt and other seasonings. Allow the soup to simmer slowly from 5 to 6 hours, skimming when necessary, and if it should boil down too much, add more water. When ready, strain through a fine sieve and let it stand until cold. Next day remove all fat carefully from the top, and return the soup to the saucepan. Mix the flour with the ketchup, adding a little stock if necessary to make it smooth. Add them to the soup when hot and stir until boiling. Cook a few minutes longer, skim again and add more seasoning if re- quired. If crushed tapioca is used for thickening, it must be sprinkled into the soup when boiling and cooked until it is quite transparent. Note.—A garnish of vegetables cut in fancyshapes, or of macaroni or Italian paste, may be served in this soup if desired. If one of the two latter is used, a little grated Parmesan cheese should be handed separately. Time to cook, 6 to 7 hours. Probable cost, 6d. to 8d. Quantity, about 3 pints. 4. Brown Soup 1 oz. butter. 1 oz. flour. 1 qt. good brown stock. 1 table-sp. mushroom ketchup. I glass sherry or mar- sala. Pepper and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan and allow it to brown slightly. Add the flour and brown it also, pour in the stock gradually and stir until boiling.