612 COOKERY FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD apricot pulp, and stir carefully over a slow fire until the mixture thickens and begins to draw away from the sides of the saucepan. Now pour it out on a marble slab, and, when cool, sprinkle with icing sugar, and roll out to J inch in thickness. Coat the surface with some thin glace icing—with whatever flavouring preferred,—sprinkle with finely-chopped pistachio nuts, and cut into fancy shapes with a sharp knife. Note.—If liked, the marzipan may be coloured, or a coloured icing may be used. PART VI MISCELLANEOUS SWEETS, &c. 2948. Apricotines Equal quantities of apricot pulp and castor sugar; and some crystallised sugar. Take some good tinned apricots, lift them from the syrup, and drain them on a sieve for \ hour. Then rub them through a hair sieve, and weigh the pulp. Put this pulp into a lined saucepan with an equal quantity of castor sugar. Bring to the boil, and boil until fairly thick, when the mixture will begin to draw away from the sides of the sauce- pan. It must be stirred all the time, and must not cook too quickly. Drop small pieces about the size of a halfpenny on a wetted tin, and sprinkle with crystallised sugar before they harden. When firm put two together, the flat sides against each other ; roll in sugar, and put them in little crimped paper sweetmeat cases. Small sweet moulds may be used for shaping the sweets ; these should be wet with cold water, and sprinkled inside with granu- lated sugar before the fruit pulp is poured into them. Note.—Other fruit pulp can be used in the same way, but it must be one with some substance, such as apples, plums, peaches, &c. Currants, strawberries, and the like are too juicy. Quince pulp lends itself very well for this purpose, and makes a delicious sweet. The fruit must be stewed to a pulp with as little water as possible. 2949. Black Currant Jellies 1 gill black-currant jelly. J lb. granulated sugar. 1| oz. gelatine. 1J gills boiling water. A few drops of carmine. Pink sugar. Put the jelly and sugar into a saucepan, stir them over the fire until dissolved, and then boil to 235° F. Dissolve the gelatine in a small saucepan with the boiling water, strain it into the other ingredients, and boil together for a few minutes. Pour all into a wet plate, sprinkle with pink or white granulated sugar, and set aside to harden. Then turn out, cut in squares, and toss them in sugar until well coloured. 2950. French Jellies 2 lbs. loaf sugar. [ Colouring. 5 gills water. Flavouring. 2 oz. gelatine. | Granulated sugar. Soak the gelatine in the water for J hour, then put it into a saucepan with the sugar, bring to the boil, and boil for 20 minutes, stirring all the time. Divide into two portions, and colour and flavour according to taste. For instance, colour one half pink with a little carmine or cochineal and flavour with raspberry or strawberry essence, and colour the other half a pale yellow and flavour with lemon, or colour green and flavour with peppermint. Turn each portion into a wetted soup plate or pie dish, sprinkle with granulated sugar, and leave until the next day. Then turn out, cut in neat square or oblong-shaped pieces, and roll them in granulated sugar. Leave spread out until dry and crisp on the outside. 2951. Marshmallows l lb. gum-arabic. | pt. water. | lb. granulated sugar. 3 whites of eggs. Almond essence. Icing sugar and corn starch. Choose the very best gum, and soak it in the cold water overnight, keeping it covered. Next day strain it through muslin into a saucepan, and add the sugar. Stand this in a larger pan containing hot water, and stir over the fire until thick and white. When sufficiently cooked, it should form a firm ball when tested in cold water. Remove the saucepan from the fire, stir in the flavouring and the stiffly beaten whites of eggs. This will make the mixture spongy. Turn it into a tin that has been dusted out with icing sugar and corn starch mixed, making it not less than an inch thick. Sprinkle with icing sugar, and leave the mixture to stand all night. Next day cut in pieces about 1 inch square, and coat these thickly with icing sugar, or with corn starch and icing sugar mixed. Note.—Orange-flower water may be used for flavouring instead of almond essence. These , sweets used formerly to be made from a gluey substance obtained from the marshmallow, hence the name. 2952. Glycerine Jujubes 3 oz. glycerine. 1 oz. gelatine. 1 gill lemon juice. ■’ Cut the gelatine in pieces and put it in a small saucepan with the glycerine and lemon juice. Stand the saucepan in a larger pan with hot water, and stir over the fire until dissolved. Then strain into a wetted plate, sprinkle with sugar, and set aside until cold and firm. Turn out on sugared ^ paper, cut in small pieces, and roll in sugar. Then place the jujubes on a wire stand or sieve to dry. 2953. Nougat 1 lb. icing sugar. 1 tab.-sp. pistachio nuts. 4 oz. clear honey. 1 or 2 oz. glace cherries. 3 oz. sweet almonds. 4 whites of eggs. Sieve the sugar, and put it into a copper beating bowl with the whites of eggs and honey. Mix well with a whisk, then place the bowl over a slow fire, and keep mixing until the mixture is white and thick. It will take about 30 minutes, and the bowl must be turned occasionally to prevent its becoming too hot in any one part. When ready, remove from the fire, and stir in the almonds and pistachios (both shred and well dried) and the cherries cut in small pieces. Have ready a small wafer biscuit box, greased at the sides