'nerves connected with the brain. 1S5 the senses, reached the prominences in the parietes of the ventricles of the brain *. 14. * The Plates of tlie brain of Drs Gall and Spurzein, are, taken as a whole, far superior to any that have been published ; and by their method of exhibiting the brain, they have thrown much light upon the relative situation of parts. Their 6th Plate exhibiting the ventricles of the brain, seems to be peculiarly worthy of attention; as also Plate 10th, in which a vertical section of the brain is given. The above engravings also exhibit more distinctly than those of ViEussENS, my Father, or Vicq D’azyb, the continuity of the fibres which extend from the medulla oblongata into the hemispheres of the brain and cerebellum, and also the decussa- tion of the filaments of the corpora pyramidalia, which have been described by Santorini. Drs Gall and Spurzein have discovered two different kinds of fibres in the medullary substance of the hemispheres of the brain; the one of which diverges from the peduncles of the brain, and the other converges towards the commissures. The same distinguished authors agree with my Father in opi- nion, that the nerves do not take their origin from the brain. I cannot refrain from adding, that their opinion respecting the unfolding the brain somewhat like a membrane, seems to be extremely doubtful ; and also, that it is not a little remarkalile, that those gentlemen who have devoted so much attention to the anatomy of the brain, should not have understood the descrip- tions and Plates my Father has published respecting the commu- nication between the lateral ventricles of the brain, to which they have repeatedly referred. They seeem to have looked for that passage of communication between the lateral ventricles of the brain in the septum lucidum, where they did not,—could not have found it, and therefore have denied its existence. Moreau, on the other hand, the learned editor of the last edition of Vicq D’azyr’s book on the Brain, speaking of the communication between tire ventricles, has observed, Le?